

201 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Senate

 BODY:
SENATE
 NEW HAMPSHIRE
 Shaheen Wins in Rematch
 Riding a demographic wave that has shifted New Hampshire solidly into the Democratic column, former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, defeated Senator John E. Sununu, the Republican incumbent and the youngest member of the Senate. The contest was a rematch of the bitter 2002 race between Mrs. Shaheen, 61, and Mr. Sununu, with Mrs. Shaheen repeatedly tying Mr. Sununu, 44, to the policies of President Bush. 
 NORTH CAROLINA
 Hagan Defeats Dole
 In one of the more dramatic races this year, the Democrat, State Senator Kay Hagan, defeated Senator Elizabeth Dole, the Republican. Mrs. Dole, a former Republican presidential candidate and cabinet secretary, had come under criticism for spending too little time in North Carolina during the early years of her term. Ms. Hagan relied on high turnout among supporters of Barack Obama to propel her in what has long been a solidly Republican state. 
 VIRGINIA
 Warner Out, Warner In
 The Democrat, former Gov. Mark Warner, easily defeated the Republican, former Gov. James S. Gilmore III, in a race to succeed Senator John W. Warner, a retiring Republican. Mark Warner had enjoyed a sizable lead in the polls all year long, buoyed not just by his popularity as governor but by the coincidence that he has the same name as the man he was running to succeed. The Warners are not related. 
 GEORGIA
 A Win for Chambliss 
 Senator Saxby Chambliss, the Republican incumbent, fended off a surprisingly strong challenge by the Democrat, Jim Martin, a virtually unknown former state representative. Mr. Chambliss had been far ahead in public opinion polls until September when the race tightened amid the worsening economic crisis. National Democrats, who had given up the Georgia race for lost, quickly injected money into the state, but the Republican fended that off. 
 KENTUCKY
 McConnell Is Victor
 Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, beat back a well-financed and unexpectedly strong challenge by Bruce Lunsford, a Democrat and wealthy businessman. Mr. McConnell, who emphasized his efforts to promote Kentucky's interests in Washington, spent much of the last two years using the Republicans' powerful minority to thwart the Democrats at virtually every turn. But as he returns to Capitol Hill for a fifth term, he will preside over the diminished ranks of Senate Republicans. 
 MISSISSIPPI
 Wicker Retains Seat
 The Republican, Senator Roger Wicker, who was tapped in late 2007 to replace retiring Senadefeated former Gov. Ronnie Musgrove, a Democrat, in a special election to finish out the remainder of Mr. Lott's term. With superior name recognition, Mr. Musgrove had hoped to be the first Democrat to win a Senate seat in Mississippi since 1982. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (92%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (91%); MARK WARNER (90%); JOHN WARNER (79%); ELIZABETH DOLE (79%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (79%); KAY HAGAN (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); JIM GILMORE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); ROGER F WICKER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



202 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: Obama: Racial Barrier Falls in Decisive Victory

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Phoenix, Marjorie Connelly from New York and Jeff Zeleny from Chicago.

 BODY:
Barack Hussein Obama was elected the 44th president of the United States on Tuesday, sweeping away the last racial barrier in American politics with ease as the country chose him as its first black chief executive.
The election of Mr. Obama amounted to a national catharsis -- a repudiation of a historically unpopular Republican president and his economic and foreign policies, and an embrace of Mr. Obama's call for a change in the direction and the tone of the country.
But it was just as much a strikingly symbolic moment in the evolution of the nation's fraught racial history, a breakthrough that would have seemed unthinkable just two years ago.
Mr. Obama, 47, a first-term senator from Illinois, defeated Senator John McCain of Arizona, 72, a former prisoner of war who was making his second bid for the presidency. 
To the very end, Mr. McCain's campaign was eclipsed by an opponent who was nothing short of a phenomenon, drawing huge crowds epitomized by the tens of thousands of people who turned out to hear Mr. Obama's victory speech in Grant Park in Chicago.
Mr. McCain also fought the headwinds of a relentlessly hostile political environment, weighted down with the baggage left to him by President Bush and an economic collapse that took place in the middle of the general election campaign.
''If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all things are possible, who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time, who still questions the power of our democracy, tonight is your answer,'' said Mr. Obama, standing before a huge wooden lectern with a row of American flags at his back, casting his eyes to a crowd that stretched far into the Chicago night.
''It's been a long time coming,'' the president-elect added, ''but tonight, because of what we did on this date in this election at this defining moment, change has come to America.''
Mr. McCain delivered his concession speech under clear skies on the lush lawn of the Arizona Biltmore, in Phoenix, where he and his wife had held their wedding reception. The crowd reacted with scattered boos as he offered his congratulations to Mr. Obama and saluted the historical significance of the moment.
''This is a historic election, and I recognize the significance it has for African-Americans and for the special pride that must be theirs tonight,'' Mr. McCain said, adding, ''We both realize that we have come a long way from the injustices that once stained our nation's reputation.''
Not only did Mr. Obama capture the presidency, but he led his party to sharp gains in Congress. This puts Democrats in control of the House, the Senate and the White House for the first time since 1995, when Bill Clinton was in office.
The day shimmered with history as voters began lining up before dawn, hours before polls opened, to take part in the culmination of a campaign that over the course of two years commanded an extraordinary amount of attention from the American public.
As the returns became known, and Mr. Obama passed milestone after milestone --Ohio, Florida, Virginia, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Iowa and New Mexico -- people rolled spontaneously into the streets to celebrate what many described, with perhaps overstated if understandable exhilaration, a new era in a country where just 143 years ago, Mr. Obama, as a black man, could have been owned as a slave.
For Republicans, especially the conservatives who have dominated the party for nearly three decades, the night represented a bitter setback and left them contemplating where they now stand in American politics.
Mr. Obama and his expanded Democratic majority on Capitol Hill now face the task of governing the country through a difficult period: the likelihood of a deep and prolonged recession, and two wars. He took note of those circumstances in a speech that was notable for its sobriety and its absence of the triumphalism that he might understandably have displayed on a night when he won an Electoral College landslide.
''The road ahead will be long, our climb will be steep,'' said Mr. Obama, his audience hushed and attentive, with some, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson, wiping tears from their eyes. ''We may not get there in one year or even one term, but America, I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we will get there. I promise you, we as a people will get there.'' The roster of defeated Republicans included some notable party moderates, like Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire and Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, and signaled that the Republican conference convening early next year in Washington will be not only smaller but more conservative.
Mr. Obama will come into office after an election in which he laid out a number of clear promises: to cut taxes for most Americans, to get the United States out of Iraq in a fast and orderly fashion, and to expand health care.
In a recognition of the difficult transition he faces, given the economic crisis, Mr. Obama is expected to begin filling White House jobs as early as this week.
Mr. Obama defeated Mr. McCain in Ohio, a central battleground in American politics, despite a huge effort that brought Mr. McCain and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, back there repeatedly. Mr. Obama had lost the state decisively to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York in the Democratic primary.
Mr. McCain failed to take from Mr. Obama the two Democratic states that were at the top of his target list: New Hampshire and Pennsylvania. Mr. Obama also held on to Minnesota, the state that played host to the convention that nominated Mr. McCain; Wisconsin; and Michigan, a state Mr. McCain once had in his sights.
The apparent breadth of Mr. Obama's sweep left Republicans sobered, and his showing in states like Ohio and Pennsylvania stood out because officials in both parties had said that his struggles there in the primary campaign reflected the resistance of blue-collar voters to supporting a black candidate.
''I always thought there was a potential prejudice factor in the state,'' Senator Bob Casey, a Democrat of Pennsylvania who was an early Obama supporter, told reporters in Chicago. ''I hope this means we washed that away.''
Mr. McCain called Mr. Obama at 10 p.m., Central time, to offer his congratulations. In the call, Mr. Obama said he was eager to sit down and talk; in his concession speech, Mr. McCain said he was ready to help Mr. Obama work through difficult times.
''I need your help,'' Mr. Obama told his rival, according to an Obama adviser, Robert Gibbs. ''You're a leader on so many important issues.''
Mr. Bush called Mr. Obama shortly after 10 p.m. to congratulate him on his victory.
''I promise to make this a smooth transition,'' the president said to Mr. Obama, according to a transcript provided by the White House .''You are about to go on one of the great journeys of life. Congratulations, and go enjoy yourself.''
For most Americans, the news of Mr. Obama's election came at 11 p.m., Eastern time, when the networks, waiting for the close of polls in California, declared him the victor. A roar sounded from the 125,000 people gathered in Hutchison Field in Grant Park at the moment that they learned Mr. Obama had been projected the winner.
The scene in Phoenix was decidedly more sour. At several points, Mr. McCain, unsmiling, had to motion his crowd to quiet down -- he held out both hands, palms down -- when they responded to his words of tribute to Mr. Obama with boos.
Mr. Obama, who watched Mr. McCain's speech from his hotel room in Chicago, offered a hand to voters who had not supported him in this election, when he took the stage 15 minutes later. ''To those Americans whose support I have yet to earn,'' he said, ''I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices, I need your help, and I will be your president, too.''
Initial signs were that Mr. Obama benefited from a huge turnout of voters, but particularly among blacks. That group made up 13 percent of the electorate, according to surveys of people leaving the polls, compared with 11 percent in 2006.
In North Carolina, Republicans said that the huge surge of African-Americans was one of the big factors that led to Senator Elizabeth Dole, a Republican, losing her re-election bid.
Mr. Obama also did strikingly well among Hispanic voters; Mr. McCain did worse among those voters than Mr. Bush did in 2004. That suggests the damage the Republican Party has suffered among those voters over four years in which Republicans have been at the forefront on the effort to crack down on illegal immigrants.
The election ended what by any definition was one of the most remarkable contests in American political history, drawing what was by every appearance unparalleled public interest.
Throughout the day, people lined up at the polls for hours -- some showing up before dawn -- to cast their votes. Aides to both campaigns said that anecdotal evidence suggested record-high voter turnout.
Reflecting the intensity of the two candidates, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama took a page from what Mr. Bush did in 2004 and continued to campaign after the polls opened.
Mr. McCain left his home in Arizona after voting early Tuesday to fly to Colorado and New Mexico, two states where Mr. Bush won four years ago but where Mr. Obama waged a spirited battle.
These were symbolically appropriate final campaign stops for Mr. McCain, reflecting the imperative he felt of trying to defend Republican states against a challenge from Mr. Obama.
''Get out there and vote,'' Mr. McCain said in Grand Junction, Colo. ''I need your help. Volunteer, knock on doors, get your neighbors to the polls, drag them there if you need to.''
By contrast, Mr. Obama flew from his home in Chicago to Indiana, a state that in many ways came to epitomize the audacity of his effort this year. Indiana has not voted for a Democrat since President Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide victory in 1964, and Mr. Obama made an intense bid for support there. He later returned home to Chicago to play basketball, his election-day ritual.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Barack Obama with his wife, Michelle, and their daughters in Chicago on Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS.THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
President-elect Barack Obama and Vice Presiedent-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. at Grant Park in Chicago, where Mr. Obama made his victory speech after defeating Senator John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P3) CHARTS: THE RACE FOR PRESIDENT (Sources: 2004 results from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 2008 results from the Associated Press) (pg.P3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



203 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Vaulting the Racial Divide, Obama Persuaded Americans to Follow

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Mark Leibovich contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even during the darkest hours of his presidential campaign, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois held on to his improbable, unshakable conviction that America was ready to step across the color line.
 On Tuesday, America leaped. 
 Millions of voters -- white and black, Hispanic and Asian, biracial and multiracial -- put their faith and the future of their country into the hands of a 47-year-old black man who made history both because of his race and in spite of it.
 African-Americans wept and danced in the streets on Tuesday night,declaring that a once-reluctant nation had finally lived up to its democratic promise. Strangers of all colors exulted in small towns and big cities. And white voters marveled at what they had wrought in turning a page on the country's bitter racial history. 
 ''It brought tears to my eyes to see the lines,'' said Bob Haskins, a black maintenance worker at an Atlanta church, where scores of college students voted on Tuesday. ''For these young folks, this is a calling. Everything that Martin Luther King talked about is coming true today.'' 
 Tobey Benas, a retired teacher who voted for Mr. Obama in Chicago, also savored the moment: ''I can't believe how far we've come,'' said Ms. Benas, who is white. ''This goes very deep for me.'' 
 In a country long divided, Mr. Obama had a singular appeal: he is biracial and Ivy League educated; a stirring speaker who shoots hoops and quotes the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr; a politician who grooves to the rapper Jay-Z and loves the lyricism of the cellist Yo-Yo Ma; a man of remarkable control and startling boldness. 
 He was also something completely new: an African-American presidential candidate without a race-based agenda. And his message of unity and his promise of a new way of thinking seemed to inspire -- or least offer some reassurance -- to a country staggered by two wars, a convulsing economy and sometimes bewildering global change.
 Americans, of course, have not suddenly become colorblind or forgotten old wounds. But millions of white citizens clearly decided Mr. Obamawas preferable to the alternative, even if some had to swallow hard when they walked into the voting booth.
 ''In difficult economic times, people find the price of prejudice is just a little bit too high,'' said Gov. Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, a white Democrat. ''They're saying, 'We don't care what your race is. If you can make things better, we're for you.' ''
 Mr. Easley said he knew big changes were coming when he passed a pickup on the road a few weeks ago. The white driver, who looked like he had been hunting, was wearing camouflage apparel and had a gun rack in his truck. Mr. Easley said he was sure he was looking at a McCain supporter -- until he saw the Obama stickers plastered on the door. 
 ''I thought to myself, 'We might be winning now,' '' Mr. Easley said. ''We could cross that chasm, we could cross the Rubicon this time.''
 Confident in the country's ability to move beyond racial politics, Mr. Obama had his finger on the pulse of a nation in transition.
 Day by day, year by year, racial tensions have eased as black and white classmates giggle over scribbled notes, co-workers gossip over cups of coffee, predominantly white audiences bond with Oprah and people have grown accustomed to black executives on Wall Street, black movie stars in Hollywood and black cabinet secretaries in the Oval Office.
 Still, the fact that Americans would be willing, at last, to elect a black president stunned many scholars, politicians and advocates for civil rights. They remain keenly aware of the nation's record of denying black aspirations -- from the time African slaves were forced to these shores nearly 400 years ago, to the broken promises of Reconstruction, to the bloody resistance to the civil rights movement in the 1960s, to the last lynching of a black man in 1981. 
 ''The history of the country is such that you wonder when, if ever, certain things will ever happen,'' said Representative James E. Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat who is 68. ''You sit down and you say, 'How did the Lord allow me to be a part of all this? Why not my mother and father or their parents? Why me?' '' 
 Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Harvard scholar of African-American history, said that the election rivaled the day in 1862 when President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation and the day 101 years later when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his ''I Have a Dream'' speech. Then Mr. Gates declared, ''There's never been a moment like this in our lifetime, ever.''
 For older blacks, Mr. Obama's victory was particularly momentous. They marveled as they compared the scenes of white policemen beating black marchers in the 1960s to those from this year's campaign rallies where thousands of white people waved American flags and chanted, ''O-ba-ma! O-ba-ma!''
 Richard G. Hatcher, who became one of the nation's first black mayors when he was elected in 1967 to lead Gary, Ind., said he believed the election would reshape the perceptions that blacks and whites have of each other.
 ''That's the great hope,'' Mr. Hatcher said. ''We do not have to be absolutely obsessed with the issue of race anymore. There's no reason why the vision of America cannot be real.''
 A century or so ago, such optimism was unthinkable. Before the Civil War, only two black people -- a justice of the peace and a township clerk -- had managed to get elected to public office in the entire country.
 The prospects for black politicians were so dim that Frederick Douglass, the former slave and abolitionist, when asked what he might do as president, dismissed the question as absurd, saying, ''No such contingency has even one chance in 60 million to be realized.''
 After black men won the right to vote in 1870, they sent 23 African-Americans to Congress over the next three decades. But by 1901, when the last black lawmaker of that era left Capitol Hill, Southern whites had disenfranchised blacks, using, among other devices, the poll tax, intimidation and violence.
 By the time Mr. Obama announced his White House bid last year, though, white voters had elected black members of Congress, state legislators, mayors, even governors. This year, 70 percent of white adults surveyed in a New York Times/CBS News poll said the United States was ready to elect a black president.
 Still, most of the political establishment -- black and white -- thought that Mr. Obama had no chance. Previous black presidential candidates had never drawn significant white votes. And Mr. Obama, only the third black lawmaker ever elected to the Senate, had an unusual biography -- a white mother from Kansas, black father from Kenya, a childhood in Hawaii and Indonesia -- and a relatively thin resume.
 But once the primary season started, it became clear that Mr. Obama had a persona and a message that resonated deeply with voters. Variously a soaring orator, a sober policy wonk, an urgent promoter of change and a steady leader, he displayed a gift for finding consensus that let him draw support from people who might disagree with each other.
 African-Americans, wary at first of a candidate who had not emerged from the civil rights movement or the black church, soon embraced him. And though he struggled to win over white, working-class voters, many whites were attracted to a candidate who rarely talked about race and focused on their concerns about the war in Iraq, health care and the economy. 
 Hisbiracial background may have reassured voters who might otherwise have felt uneasy, said Gov. James E. Doyle of Wisconsin, a white Democrat. ''He has understood that occasionally white people say things that can be hurtful and can still be wonderful, loving people.''
 Yet Mr. Obama also expressed pride in his African-American identity. Mr. Gates, the Harvard professor, called Mr. Obama ''the postmodern race man.'' 
 ''He can wear it, he can take it off, he can put it back on. It's just an aspect of his identity,'' Mr. Gates said. ''People don't see him primarily as black. I think people see him primarily as an agent of change.''
 Mr. Obama is a student of history, and he turned to it in delivering the speech in March that many believed saved a candidacy threatened by his ties to his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., whose 2003 ''God damn America'' sermon became notorious. 
 The senator spoke of the legacy of slavery, of black grievance and white resentment, and of the possibility of redemption. 
 ''I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy -- particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own,'' he said then. ''But what we know -- what we have seen -- is that America can change.'' 
 ''The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about racism in our society,'' Mr. Obama added. ''It's that he spoke as if our society was static, as if no progress has been made.'' 
 Civil rights leaders cautioned that much work remains to be done. But Lattrell Foster of Chicago, 32, who voted for the first time on Tuesday, was still close to tears as he considered the immensity of the nation's progress and vowed to tell his children about it. ''Just like my grandparents told me what it was like during the civil rights movement,'' he said. ''I feel like this night is a culmination of that history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice Vortes, 28, of Chicago relaxed in Grant Park while watching Senator Barack Obama's campaign party on a large screen Tuesday evening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RELIGION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (63%); HIP HOP CULTURE (63%); RAP MUSIC (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MIKE EASLEY (54%); JAY-Z (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



204 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Increase Their Strength in the House, but Lose Some Races

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
House Democrats expanded their numbers on Tuesday, giving Speaker Nancy Pelosi more maneuvering room as she seeks to forge ahead with the agenda of President-elect Barack Obama.
 The full extent of the gains was uncertain early Wednesday, and it appeared that Democrats would fall short of the 30 or more additional seats that analysts in both parties said was possible. But with victories in Republican-held districts in Florida, Connecticut, Illinois, New York, North Carolina, Ohio and elsewhere, Democrats will have a larger majority to work with when the 111th Congress convenes.
 With many states still completing their tallies, Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the Democrats had netted at least eight additional seats and expected to win several more from Republicans. 
 ''The night is young,'' he said. 
 After repeated attempts, Democrats finally defeated Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, toppling the last House Republican in New England. Democrats also defeated Representative Robin Hayes in North Carolina; Tom Feeney and Ric Keller in Florida; Phil English in Pennsylvania; and Marilyn Musgrave in Colorado.
 They picked up seats in New York, with the former House staff member Dan Maffei winning a Republican-held seat in the Syracuse area, and were on the verge of gains in Michigan appeared to win two seats vacated by Republicans in New Mexico. 
 Democrats also gained at least one seat in Mr. Obama's home state, Illinois, where State Senator Debbie Halvorson won an open seat west of Chicago.
 ''Tonight, the American people have spoken clearly to take our country in a new direction,'' Ms. Pelosi said as the results rolled in. She said stronger majorities in the House and Senate should ''increase bipartisanship, civility and fiscal responsibility.''
 But Democrats suffered losses as well, losing the Florida seat of Representative Tim Mahoney, who was caught up in a scandal over extramarital affairs. Representative Nick Lampson of Texas, who in 2006 won the heavily Republican district of the former House leader Tom DeLay after Mr. DeLay resigned, was defeated, as was Don Cazayoux of Louisiana, who was elected in a special election earlier this year. Other Democrats were on the cusp of defeat.
 Republicans warned Democrats not to read too much into the results.
 ''Republicans had a tough night, which was expected,'' said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. ''But Democrats would be making a big mistake if they viewed these results as a repudiation of conservatism or a mandate for big government.''
 The Democratic gains in both the House and Senate came in some degree from the ranks of more moderate Republicans like Mr. Shays, meaning that the shrunken Republican minority in Congress will be more conservative and potentially more resistant to the Obama agenda.
 The outcomes immediately set off repercussions for the Republican leadership. Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, the No. 3 Republican in the House, told his colleagues that he would not seek another term in the party leadership.
 Exit polls showed that the economy was the overwhelming issue on the minds of voters when they made their choices in Congressional races and that President Bush's unpopularity weighed heavily in their choices as well. Having gained 30 seats to seize control of the House in 2006, Democrats faced a challenge in repeating: parties generally cannot sustain such momentum in two consecutive elections. 
 But the door opened for Democrats in 2007, when a line of Republican incumbents that ultimately reached more than two dozen began announcing their retirements in states where Democrats could be competitive, including Illinois, New York, Minnesota and Ohio. At the same time, first-term Democrats who should have been at risk after riding the 2006 wave into office were able to position themselves to fend off challenges.
 After being hurt in the 2006 election by lawmaker misconduct and corruption, House Republicans continued to be dogged by the issue this year. Representative Rick Renzi of Arizona, having been indicted, was forced to abandon any re-election plans, providing Democrats an opportunity in that state, and Representative Don Young of Alaska remained under investigation. 
 Republicans got a sense of their predicament early in the year when Democrats took over three solidly Republican seats in special elections -- one in the Illinois district of former Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and two others in conservative Louisiana and Mississippi. The victories, which made the Democrats' House majority 236 to 199, sapped Republican morale, bolstered Democratic fund-raising and emboldened the party to go after Republicans in what would normally have been considered hostile territory.
 During a summer notable for record oil prices, Republicans fought back. For a time, they had Democrats on the defensive over the rising cost of gasoline, arguing that the majority party had allied with environmental groups to keep much of the nation's coastline off limits to exploration, increasing American reliance on foreign oil and crimping family finances. 
 The clash, which prompted the Republican slogan ''Drill, baby, drill,'' had special resonance because Ms. Pelosi had been a longtime prominent opponent of drilling.
 Under pressure, Ms. Pelosi and her fellow Democrats relented in September and agreed to allow some offshore drilling. A catchall spending measure ultimately lifted the drilling ban altogether, though Democrats may try to reinstate it next year. The repeal, combined with a new decline in gasoline prices, drained much of the momentum from what had been a winning issue for Republicans.
 At the same time, Republicans were cuffed by a faltering economy. By September, what had started as a housing downturn was an all-out economic crisis, with the government taking over mortgage finance companies and a major insurer, credit markets seizing up and the stock market going into a tailspin along with Americans' savings and retirement accounts.
 Both parties say the political bottom seemed to fall out for Republicans as Congress considered a $700 billion financial-industry bailout, pushed by the Bush administration. House Republicans played a crucial role in killing the first version of the bill, though a revised bailout passed on a second attempt.
 Lawmakers found that while many voters did not favor what they saw as a rescue for Wall Street firms, they also wanted Congress to stop the drain on their retirement and college savings plans. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, celebrated her party's success on Tuesday with Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: CONTROL OF THE HOUSE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SCANDALS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (89%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (79%); DAN MAFFEI (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (59%); NICK LAMPSON (58%); TIM MAHONEY (58%); RIC KELLER (58%); DEBBIE HALVORSON (58%); MARILYN N MUSGRAVE (58%); TOM FEENEY (58%); DONALD J CAZAYOUX JR (58%); KEVIN SMITH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



205 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: In a Decisive Victory, Obama Reshapes the Electoral Map

BYLINE: By ERIN AIGNER, JOE BURGESS, BADEN COPELAND, MATTHEW ERICSON, HANNAH FAIRFIELD, FORD FESSENDEN, HAEYOUN PARK and ARCHIE TSE

 BODY:
Barack Obama's historic win, with at least 349 electoral votes to John McCain's 162, can be attributed to his victories in several high-population states, like Florida, Virginia and Ohio, that George W. Bush won handily in 2004. The struggling economy, especially in more industrial states, and high numbers of new voters helped flip key areas from red to blue. Even where Mr. McCain beat Mr. Obama, he won by slimmer margins, as much of the electorate -- across age, race and income lines -- swung toward the Democratic Party. 
 Margins of Victory
 Circles show the winning candidate's vote margin in each county. Mr. Obama picked up large margins in urban areas, while Mr. McCain picked up smaller margins in large numbers of rural counties.
 Riley County, Kan.
 This small county in red Kansas saw a trend repeated in other college towns: A 27-percent increase in votes for the Democratic candidate. Orlando, Fla.
 Fast-growing Orange County was close in 2000 and 2004, but it has become a Democratic stronghold. Mr. Obama scored a muscular 85,000-vote margin.
 Scranton, Pa.
 One of Hillary Clinton's best primary counties, Lackawanna County, rebuffed Mr. McCain and embraced Mr. Obama.
 Philadelphia
 Mr. Obama beat Mr. Kerry's record of 540,000 votes in Philadelphia by 30,000.
 New Voters, New Power Bases
 Mr. Obama's campaign theme of change created a groundswell of support in areas of the country hurt by the weakened economy. Rising unemployment and housing foreclosures in Rust Belt states, as well as Florida and Nevada, may have led voters to support Mr. Obama.
 A powerful get-out-the-vote effort paid off for the Obama campaign in certain crucial states, like Florida, Colorado and Nevada. The number of people who voted in Florida rose by 9.7 percent from 2004. Many of those voters went to the polls for the first time -- and those voters chose Mr. Obama nearly 70 percent of the time.
 Voter figures were also high in states won by Mr. McCain, like South Carolina, Georgia and Alabama.
 Turnout may have been a defining factor in Indiana, a battleground state that had 5.3 percent more voters than in 2004. It awarded a narrow victory, and its 11 electoral votes, to Mr. Obama.
 Shifting Demographics
 The electorate moved toward the Democratic Party across nearly every demographic category. Many shifts were a few percentage points, but several categories had much higher jumps. One exception to the trend: low-income white counties moved solidly toward the Republican side.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS(Sources: Historical results from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 2008 results from Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); TRENDS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STATISTICS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



206 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IRAN'S PARLIAMENT FIRES OFFICIAL,
Dealing Blow to President
The Iranian Parliament voted to dismiss a top government minister, another setback for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad eight months before he faces a presidential election. Parliament dismissed the interior minister, Ali Kordan, on charges of dishonesty and lying about an honorary doctorate degree he said he had received from Oxford University. PAGE A6
COLOMBIA ARMY GENERAL RESIGNS
The commander of Colombia's army, Gen. Mario Montoya, 59, resigned after an investigation tied dozens of military personnel under his command to an intensifying scandal over the killing of civilians by the armed forces. The military was apparently trying to inflate the number of criminal gang members killed in combat. PAGE A6 
EXPLOSIVES KILL 15 IN BAGHDAD
Fifteen people were killed and dozens wounded by bombings in Baghdad, part of an uptick in violence after a relatively quiet few weeks. Also, the Iraqi customs police in Najaf Province announced the discovery of a large bag full of C4 explosives, wires and detonators -- enough materials to make half a dozen suicide vests, organized into individual do-it-yourself kits -- near the Saudi border. PAGE A10
INDIAN COWBOYS ROPE HOLY STRAYS
There is perhaps no more stereotypical image of India than that of a stray cow sauntering down the middle of a busy city street, seemingly oblivious to the traffic swerving around it. But no matter how sacred the animal, residents of New Delhi have lost patience. Now there are dozens of urban cowboys who rope cattle on the streets of this city as part of a long and frustrating battle to rid India's capital of stray cows. PAGE A14
A BIN LADEN SON SEEKS ASYLUM
One of Osama bin Laden's sons, who made headlines last year when he married a British woman, is seeking asylum in Spain. Omar Osama bin Laden, 27, arrived at Barajas International Airport in Madrid and was being held in a special center for asylum seekers. It was not immediately clear on what grounds Mr. bin Laden was basing his claim. PAGE A6
INDONESIA BRACES FOR EXECUTIONS
The Indonesian police have stepped up security ahead of the expected executions of three Islamic militants convicted in the 2002 Bali bombings. Police said that they had received warnings of attacks against the American and Australian Embassies if the executions were carried out. Fearing retaliatory attacks, major hotels, shopping centers and embassies in the capital increased security. PAGE A7
China and Taiwan Sign Accords A8
The Election P1-15
National
THE BATTLE FOR AMERICAN CULTURE
Is Distilled to Single Words
According to the Federal Communications Commission, it is going to take a lot more than soap and water to keep our ears clean. In the past, the focus of the commission was on sustained swearing, not a single word here and there. The Supreme Court is considering the role of the F.C.C. in regulating ''fleeting expletives'' on broadcast television -- essentially whether a network can be punished for letting slip one of those pesky Anglo-Saxon words. Page A26
OPENING STATEMENTS IN ABUSE TRIAL
Opening statements began in the trial of a man accused of beating his step-daughter in 2005, leaving her in a coma. The case gained attention because of a decision by Massachusetts to take the child off life support, against the stepfather's wishes, and because she came out of her coma shortly after the decision. The stepfather is accused of pushing her down a flight of stairs and then leaving the girl in a bathtub for over a day. Prosecutors maintain that her injuries could not have been self-inflicted, as claimed by the defense. Page A26
MONEY TROUBLES ALABAMA SCHOOLS
The dismal outlook for public school financing around the nation is especially pointed in Alabama, where superintendents are being warned not to make repairs as the schools borrow heavily or eat into their savings just to meet payrolls. The state relies heavily on sales and income tax and for that reason may be more vulnerable. With so many programs being trimmed and cut, belts are getting so tight that it may become difficult to breathe. Page A23
JUSTICE FOR 32 SLAIN BUFFALO
The buffalo no longer roam quite so far as American nostalgia. While the large beasts are used as ranch animals and slaughtered just like chickens and cows, America still remembers their roots: as the sacred animals shot wholesale from passing trains. Jeffrey Scott Hawn, a software executive, pleaded guilty to orchestrating an illegal hunt for bison that wandered onto his land from an adjoining ranch and is being fined $157,000, plus restitution. Page A23
AS GREEN GARAGES GO, IT'S ELECTRIC
The San Francisco Bay Area is home to more owners of Toyota Priuses than most states. So it is fitting that it would be home to the Luscious Garage, a woman-run, hybrid specialty garage with a passion for the planet and cleanliness. ''You could eat off her floor,'' as one customer puts it. The garage also has recycling bins and solar panels, but the shop's real specialty is converting hybrids to plug-hybrids, functionally all-electric cars. Page A23
Business
OUTDATED RISK MODELS BLAMED
For Fueling the Financial Turmoil
The current financial landscape seems to be an indictment of financial engineering. A blend of mathematics, statistics and computing, its practitioners devised those mortgage-backed securities that now resemble nothing so much as a shot in the foot, and the models of risk that made them appear safe. These models, experts say, fell behind the growth of complex securities. But the error was also a human one, as these models were often mismanaged, misunderstood and applied incorrectly. Page B1
TEST-DRIVING DIGITAL ADVERTISING
When the big Westfield London shopping center was opened in Britain last week, it was a test of British consumers' ability to keep spending despite a steep economic dip. And as long as there is going to be a test in spending, there might as well be one in advertising. The shopping center is going to include the world's largest concentration of digital billboards -- over 100 -- the largest covering 646 square feet, installed by CBS Outdoor, a division of the CBS media conglomerate. Page B3
A COMMERCIAL EXIT TO BROOKLYN
As office vacancies climb in Manhattan, with the financial crisis causing layoff after layoff, a few companies have been pulling up stakes and moving to Downtown Brooklyn. The number isn't that big -- in Manhattan -- but in the relatively small Downtown Brooklyn market the impact is felt as space becomes scarce. The largest deal was struck by the troubled insurer American International Group, which snapped up 120,000 square feet at 12 MetroTech Center. Page B9
A HOTEL AND A BEACON OF HOPE
Before the rest of the country got smacked with financial woes, Detroit was already rocked by high unemployment, struggling housing and automobile industries, and an indiscreet mayor. The reopening of the Book Cadillac hotel, from a post-apocalyptic-looking shell into luxury lodging and entertainment, was received like a civic catharsis. Though the project seems at odds with the economy, and was fraught with difficulty, the managing company says that business has started off and stayed strong. Page B8
APPLE TO HIRE I.B.M. ENGINEER
Apple has announced its intention to hire a high-ranking I.B.M. technology executive. The executive, who ran I.B.M.'s blade server business, is being sued by I.B.M. because he signed a contract that he would not join a competing company for a year after leaving. The executive will stay on with Apple in an advisory role to the chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, and because of this limited role, Apple may believe it can reject the suit outright. Page B3
Sports
ON THIS PARTICULAR EVENING,
A Different Scoreboard to Watch
All 30 general managers at baseball's annual executive meetings were planning to watch the national election returns long into the night. Kenny Williams, general manager of the Chicago White Sox, is no different. Well, O.K., he's a little different. Not only is he one of only two African-American general managers, he has known Barack Obama for over 10 years and considers him a friend. Page B16
GAME FISHING? WATCH THE BIRDS
The carpenters working next door swore up and down that their friends were pulling 30-pounders out of the water at will. But the gulls were, for a time, absent and the hunt for bass and blues seemed doubtful. The birds feed on the same bait as the game fish and can be relied on to spot rich fishing. It is just a matter of getting there in time: the length of time between spotting feeding fish and getting close enough to cast, Peter Kaminsky writes in the Outdoors column. Page B16
New York
NEW YORK STADIUMS NEAR FINISH
To the Tune of Emptying Wallets
''We don't do subsidies,'' said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in 2005, when he unveiled his plan for the Mets and the Yankees to foot the construction bill for their new stadiums. The plan called for the city to pay for and build public parks and nearby parking and transit stations, keeping the cost to taxpayers small. Only part of that plan went accordingly. The cost to the city has increased to $458 million from $281 million, not including tax breaks. page A29
BLOOMBERG'S NEW BUDGET PLAN
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will recommend the elimination of the $400 property tax rebate as part of a host of possible tax increases, according to people briefed on the plan. The increases are part of an anticipated budget plan intended to plug a $4 billion shortfall. In addition to the increases, the mayor will reduce the city's work force by 3,000 and cancel the next training class for more than 1,100 police cadets. page A29
Obituaries
ROSELLA HIGHTOWER, 88
An Oklahoma-born ballerina, Miss Hightower followed her celebrated career by founding the Centre de Danse Classique in Cannes, France. It remains one of the world's leading ballet schools. She became the first 20th-century American ballerina to hold a leading place on the European stage, and was proud of her Native American heritage. page A33
Culture
NEW PBS DOCUMENTARY FOLLOWS 5 WOMEN AT WAR
Department of Defense policy bars women from direct ground combat, but for the five female soldiers profiled in a new PBS documentary, ''Lioness,'' that regulation meant little in the heat of battle. The documentary makes the point that the nature of the Iraq war -- fuzzy front lines and guerrilla tactics -- has thrust more female soldiers into enemy fire than ever before. And, like the men, the women sometimes find the return to civilian life difficult. PAGE C1
COMEDIAN TO MAKE THEATER DEBUT
In the world of stand-up comedy Mike Birbiglia is pretty big. In New York theater circles, not so much. His autobiographical stand-up act, ''Sleeping While Standing,'' played to sizable crowds during a recent 21-city tour. That act has evolved into ''Sleepwalk With Me,'' currently in previews at the Bleecker Street Theater in Greenwich Village, where it opens next week. With his one-man show, Mr. Birbiglia hopes to expand his audience, and helping in the effort is a high-profile fan who signed on as the show's presenter: Nathan Lane. PAGE C2
A GUITARIST 'SORT OF' BASED IN JAZZ
Mary Halvorson was the picture of calm at the Greenwich Village club Le Poisson Rouge on a recent evening, slouched intently over her big hollow-body guitar. But the music she was making buzzed and bristled. It was a typical night on the bandstand for Ms. Halvorson: intricate song forms met with startling jolts of insight that felt as rooted in experimental rock, folk and chamber music as in any subspecies of jazz, writes Nate Chinen. Only 28, Ms. Halvorson has become a prominent figure on New York's avant-jazz landscape. PAGE C1
Dining
LIKE MUCH ELSE, THE INTERNET DEMOCRATIZES RESTAURANT REVIEWS
With 4 million reviews written and 15 million visitors a month, Yelp.com is a growing force in the food-obsessed corners of the Web, where life is all profiteroles and beer, and according to Web traffic counters, Yelp is growing much faster than its closest rivals. PAGE D1
WHERE CHOCOLATE IS LIFE
On an island in Ecuador's Amazonian rain forest, in a tin-roofed hut on stilts, live some of the world's most unusual chocolate entrepreneurs. For the Quechua people there, cacao has always been a treat, but mostly, the beans were sold for about 20 cents a pound to men who would bring them to the port of Guayaquil. But the Quechua grew tired of making such a meager living from so highly valued a product. With the help of volunteers they eliminated the middlemen and created their own chocolate. PAGE D1
Editorial
THE NEXT PRESIDENT
In an extraordinary and dangerous time for the country, this has been one of the most extraordinary elections in living memory. PAGE A34
THE WAR WITHIN
Israel is becoming a nation at war with itself. The conflict is not just with militant Palestinians. PAGE A34
NEBRASKA'S ABANDONED FAMILIES
No parent should have to abandon a troubled child just to get help. PAGE A34
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
On Nov. 4, 2008, the American Civil War finally came to an end when a black man -- Barack Hussein Obama -- was elected president of the United States. PAGE A35
THE MEASURE OF DEMOCRACY
What's left to say after this seemingly endless campaign? The Op-Ed editors asked five poets -- John Ashbery, August Kleinzahler, Mary Jo Bang, Joshua Mehigan and J.D. McClatchy -- to answer that question. PAGE A35

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); RELIGION (71%); SCANDALS (70%); AIRPORTS (68%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (62%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (53%); RETAILERS (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) COLOMBIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); INDIA (93%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



207 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Voter Polls Find Obama Built a Broad Coalition

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and MEGAN THEE

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama, the first African-American nominee for president, drew more support in Tuesday's election than any recent candidates of the Democratic Party among a broad range of demographic groups, including several that typically favor Republicans.
Promising change to a country now in recession, Mr. Obama built a coalition that included majorities of women, independent voters, political moderates, Hispanics, African-Americans, people of most income groups and education levels and voters under age 45, according to nationwide surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday and telephone interviews of some people who had voted early. 
The Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, won majorities of a few groups that make up his party's staunchest supporters -- white men, older Americans, evangelical Christians and conservatives.
Mr. McCain won a majority of all white voters, both men and women.
But Mr. Obama, who would be the first African-American president of a nation that originally protected black slavery in its Constitution and counted each black citizen as three-fifths of a person, did better among white voters over all than a string of Democratic nominees, including John Kerry and Al Gore.
Mr. Obama outperformed Democratic nominees of the past eight presidential elections among women, blacks, young voters, moderates and independents. His support among Hispanics is about the same as it was for Mr. Gore in 2000, erasing the significant gains that Mr. Bush made in 2004.
Among the Republican-leaning groups that moved into the Democratic column for Mr. Obama were mothers and Catholics. Rural voters split their votes, with a bare majority supporting Mr. McCain, while Mr. Obama built on recent Democratic Party gains in the once reliably Republican suburbs.
Nearly half of voters to the end said they did not believe Mr. Obama has the experience to be an effective president, doubts that had dogged the first-term senator from Illinois throughout his 21-month campaign, including in his hard-fought Democratic nomination race against Hillary Rodham Clinton, the second-term senator from New York and former first lady.
By contrast, 6 in 10 said Mr. McCain, a member of Congress for 26 years and a Navy veteran, had the requisite experience. Yet voters' hunger for the change that Mr. Obama promised trumped Mr. McCain's experience argument.
The results signaled a repudiation of President Bush, the man who ran as ''a uniter, not a divider'' in 2000, and in his own elections managed to make gains for his party with nearly every demographic group.
The outcomes built upon the findings of the surveys of voters in 2006, when Republicans lost their majorities in the House and Senate after 12 years of control amid simmering voter discontent with Mr. Bush and the direction of the country.
This year's voter survey showed intensified negativity. Three-quarters of those polled said the country was on the wrong track, more than 9 in 10 rated the economy in bad shape and 7 in 10 disapproved of the job Mr. Bush is doing; those voters overwhelmingly supported Mr. Obama.
Mr. McCain's inability to separate himself from the Republican president -- and Mr. Obama's success in ceaselessly tying his rival to the unpopular president -- was clearly a factor in the results.
Nearly half of all voters said they expected Mr. McCain to continue the Bush policies, and 9 in 10 of them voted for Mr. Obama. Similarly, the big share of voters who disapprove of Mr. Bush went overwhelmingly for Mr. Obama.
For Mr. McCain, 72, age was more of an impediment than Mr. Obama's race was to him, the surveys suggest. Four in 10 voters cited Mr. McCain's age as a factor in their decision, and most of them supported Mr. Obama, 47.
Two in 10 voters said race was a factor for them, and more of those voters favored Mr. Obama than Mr. McCain, perhaps suggesting the excitement of some white and black voters to elect the first black president.
The economy, however, was the driving issue of the election, and a deeply personal one for many voters. Their answers to a variety of survey questions underscored the advantage for Mr. Obama.
Of five issues suggested to voters in the survey, 6 in 10 chose the economy as the most important one facing the country; most of them voted for Mr. Obama. About one in 10 voters named each of the other four choices -- the war in Iraq, terrorism, health care and energy policy -- and only among voters who picked terrorism did Mr. McCain prevail, according to the surveys.
Four out of five voters said they worried that the economic crisis would harm their family's finances over the next year; most backed Mr. Obama. About 4 in 10 voters said their family's financial situation was worse today than four years ago; they supported Mr. Obama more than two to one.
About half of voters said government should do more to solve the nation's problems, and they supported Mr. Obama three to one.
Two-thirds said they worry about being able to afford health care and a majority of them backed Mr. Obama.
Young voters and first-time voters, two groups that in pre-election polls had registered excitement about Mr. Obama, did vote in greater numbers than usual but so did other groups. So as a share of the electorate, they were little changed from 2004. Young voters under the age of 30 again made up just under 20 percent of all those who voted, and first-time voters about one in 10. Both groups, as expected, broke heavily for Mr. Obama.
Two-thirds of voters said Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., is qualified to be president should it become necessary, while 6 in 10 said Mrs. Palin is not. About 6 in 10 voters said the candidates' positions on the issues were more important than their leadership and personal qualities, and they favored Mr. Obama. The 4 in 10 for whom leadership qualities ranked more important than issues backed Mr. McCain. But Mr. Obama was seen as having better judgment than Mr. McCain and as being more in touch with average Americans.
The survey results are based on questionnaires that voters filled out as they left polling places nationwide.
Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City conducted the surveys for a media consortium of five television networks and the Associated Press news wire service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim and Oreste Drapeca waited to vote Tuesday at a polling station in New York with their sons, T5ristan, 8, standing, and Sebastian, 4. ''This is a very important election, and I wanted them to be a part of this,'' Mrs. Drapaca said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: WHERE THE CANDIDATES FOUND SUPPORT (Source: Edison/Mitofsky exit poll)
 VOTERS ON THE ISSUES (Source: Edison/Mitofsky exit poll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MEN (77%); RELIGION (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



208 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: And the Winner Is...

BYLINE: SANDHYA NANKANI


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students discuss and evaluate the results of the 2008 presidential election and evaluate its place in history. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students discuss and evaluate the results of the 2008 presidential election and evaluate its place in history.
Author(s):
Sandhya Nankani, The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: 1-2 class periods
Activities / Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO NOW:
 Students freewrite, for 5-7 minutes, their reflections and feelings about the results of the 2008 presidential election. Then have them reread their reflections and circle or add the one adjective that best describes their post-election mood.
 Next, have students share their words with the larger group. (If preservation of privacy is desired, have students submit their words anonymously on slips of paper.) Write these words on the board and create a visual on the board in a "word web" or "word cloud." (You may wish to consider simulating something like similar the "word train" created by NYTimes.com users throughout Election Day 2008 (http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/11/04/us/politics/20081104_ELECTION_WORDTRAIN.html).
 If you have Internet access in the classroom, you may wish to input students' words into the online word cloud generator Wordle (). You could take the warm-up one step further by sharing the online "word train" with students and comparing their results with those of NYT readers. For example, as of midday on Election Day, the most popular words were "anxious," "hopeful," "excited" and "nervous." Are there any patterns in the words generated in class?
 2. ARTICLE QUESTIONS:
 As a class, read and discuss the article "Obama Wins Election." (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20081105wednesday.html), focusing on the following questions: 
 a. Why do you think journalist Adam Nagourney describes Barack Obama's victory as a "national catharsis"? How does he support this characterization?
 b. How did Senator McCain fight " the headwinds of a relentlessly hostile political environment" in his bid for the presidency?
 c. What voting patterns helped elect Senator Obama to office? What issues were most important to these voters?
 d. What are some of the challenges facing President-elect Obama and the Democratically-controlled House and Senate?
 3. ACTIVITY:
 Tell students either that they will now participate in a post-mortem election discussion or that they will stage a mock post-election talk show, as you deem most appropriate for your class. Following are directions and guidelines for both formats.
 Talk Show Format:
 Explain to students that they will now simulate a post-election talk show, similar to the types of shows aired on cable news channels or talk radio. They will evaluate the results of the election and the historic significance of the election campaign, then discuss next steps for the next president.
 Before giving them instructions on how to begin the activity, have students write down at least two points they would like to discuss or questions they would like to ask about the election.
 Assign or conduct a random drawing for the following "roles": -News Anchor/Moderator (Note to teacher: You may wish to take this role yourself.) 
 -Panel of Republican "experts": Republican strategist(s), and/or specific figures from the Republican party, such as President Bush
 -Panel of Democratic "experts": Democratic strategist(s), and/or specific figures of the Republican party, such as former president Bill Clinton
 -Political bloggers from the "right" and the "left"
 -New York Times reporter -Other relevant figures from the election, including "regular" voters, as desired and appropriate given class size
 Assign all other students in the class the role of call-in or live audience participants who pose questions to or share opinions with the panel of experts. Establish ground rules to ensure that productive discussion will take place and so that everyone will participate.
 Seat the panelists at the front of the room. The anchor/moderator should have space to move about the room, fielding questions from the audience, facilitating discussion between and among panelists and asking additional and follow-up questions of the panelists.
 Suggested start-up and additional questions:
 -Why was this race so close, both during the primaries and in the general election? 
 -What were the main issues of this election, and how do they reflect the social, economic and political atmosphere of the United States today? 
 -How did the media - both mainstream and alternative - impact voters' decisions? 
 -Why was voter turnout so high this year?
 -What was the impact of the high voter turnout on the election outcome?
 -Did the polls ultimately matter?
 -How do you think the lessons of this campaign will influence the presidential campaigns of 2012?
 -What's next for the new president? What should his first priorities be?
 -How can and should the new president work towards uniting the country?
 -What made the difference in this election? Why did Barack Obama win?
 Wrap up the discussion with each "guest" making a 30-second closing statement and the anchor offering some closing remarks.
 Fishbowl Discussion Format:
 First, ask students to number off one to five, and then keep a list on the board of all "1's," "2's," "3's," "4's," and "5's." Ask all "1's" to sit facing one another in the middle of a circle created by the rest of the students. The students in the center are the only ones allowed to speak. If a student from the outer circle wants to add to the discussion, he or she moves to the middle of the circle, taps a participant to indicate that he or she should resume a place in the outer circle, and takes that student's place as the new person in the discussion. After discussing answers to the first question, switch the students in the center to all "2's," and allow the same fishbowl procedure to occur. Be sure to switch questions enough times so that all students have the opportunity to be in the center of the discussion at least once.
 See the talk show instructions above for suggested discussion questions.
 4. FOR HOMEWORK OR FUTURE CLASSES:
 Individually, students write letters to the new president-elect of the United States, answering the question, "What do you want the president to do for America?" In their letters addressed to "Dear Mr. President," students can advise him on the first issue they'd like to see him address in the White House.
 Encourage students to share their letters with their classmates by reading them aloud, and post them on a bulletin board or in a prominent space in the school or in a school-wide blog or Web site, similar to .
 To culminate the activity, mail the entire batch of student letters to one of the following addresses:
 The White House 
 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.
 Washington, DC 20500
 Barack Obama P.O. Box 8102 Chicago, IL 60680
 Related Times Resources:

        
ADDITIONAL TIMES ARTICLES AND MULTIMEDIA:
Interactive Graphic: An Election Day State of Mind
Photo Essay: Polling Place Photo Project
Video: Choosing a President
Election Guide 2008
The Caucus: The New York Times Politics Blog

        
LEARNING NETWORK RESOURCES:
Lesson Plan: What To Watch For On Election Night
 Demystifying the Electoral Map in Preparation for the 2008 Election Results
Quiz: Presidential Campaigns and Elections From 1896-1996
Teaching with The Times: Election 2008

        
ARCHIVAL TIMES MATERIALS:
On This Day in History: "The Presidential Election"
 Article from Nov. 6, 1860.
The Presidential Election
 Editorial from November 10, 1960.
On This Day in History: Roosevelt Sweeps the Nation
 Article from Nov. 3, 1936
Record 71 Million Expected to Cast Presidency Vote
 Article from October 26, 1964.

        
TIMES TOPICS:
Election Results
Barack Obama
John McCain

        
OTHER RESOURCES:
http://www.fivethirtyeight.com/
 FiveThirtyEight
 A leading political Web site, focused on accumulation and analysis of polling data to make election projections.
http://pbskids.org/democracy/
 PBS Democracy Project
 This site provides election features for kids.
http://www.politico.com/
 Politico
 Journalistic Web site devoted to covering national politics.

 Google and the National Writing Project team up to create a website with student "Letters to the Next President"
http://www2.scholastic.com/browse/article.jsp?id=
 Obama Wins Scholastic News Election Poll
 An overview of Scholastic's countrywide election poll
http://weeklyreader.com/election/
 Democrat Wins 2008 Student Poll
 An overview of Weekly Reader's countrywide election poll 
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Journalism- The Scholastic student election poll and the Weekly Reader student polls have both been accurate predictors of election outcome in the past half century. (Scholastic has called all but 2 elections since 1940 and Weekly Reader has called 12 out of the last 13 elections). Evaluate the election outcome in light of these polls. Do you think children reflect the pulse of the nation? Why or why not?
 Math -Interpret and evaluate "The Polls and the Results: A Historical Perspective" at http://www.nytimes.com/imagepages/2008/11/01/opinion/01blow_ready.html. This graphic shows the correlation between various polls and historical outcomes in presidential elections since 1980.
 Fine Art - Music is always a key part of political campaigns. What songs or youtube videos best exemplify the spirit of the 2008 election campaign and/or the spirit of democracy, in your opinion? Why? 
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-12
 Civics Standard 20 - Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections, and associations and groups in American politics. 
 Civics Standard 27 - Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities. 
 Civics Standard 28 - Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals. 
 Civics Standard 29 - Understands the importance of political leadership, public service, and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy. 

        
Obama Wins Election

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (73%) American Government; American History; Civics; Current Events; Elections in the United States; History of North America; Politics and Policy; Power and Authority; Social Sciences; The White House; U.S. Presidency; Witnessing History; World Leaders

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



209 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1528 words

PERSON: Michael Crichton 

HEADLINE: Michael Crichton, Author of 'Jurassic Park' and Other Thrillers, Dies at 66

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Michael Crichton, whose technological thrillers like ''The Andromeda Strain'' and ''Jurassic Park'' dominated best-seller lists for decades and were translated into Hollywood megahits, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 66 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif.
 A statement released by his family gave the cause as cancer, but provided no other details.
 A doctor by training -- he also created the hit television series ''ER'' -- Mr. Crichton used fiction to explore the moral and political problems posed by modern technology and scientific breakthroughs, which in his books defied human control or ended up as tools used for evil ends. In his fictional worlds, human greed, hubris and the urge to dominate were just as powerful as the most advanced computers. 
 Mr. Crichton's fast-paced narratives often involved the arcana of medical technology, computer science, chaos theory or genetic engineering. But by combining old-fashioned storytelling with up-to-date, gee-whiz science, the books made for a compelling formula that was adapted easily by Hollywood. His books sold in the tens of millions and almost routinely became movies, many of them blockbusters like ''Jurassic Park'' and the sequel, ''The Lost World,'' as well as ''Rising Sun.'' 
 Reviewers often complained that Mr. Crichton's characters were wooden, that his ear for dialogue was tin and that his science was suspect. Environmentalists raged against his skeptical views on climate change, first expressed in the 2004 novel, ''State of Fear,'' and subsequently in various public forums. Even his severest critics, however, confessed to being seduced by his plots and unable to resist turning the pages, rapidly.
 ''He had a ferocious, brilliant intellect and the ability to write entertaining narratives,'' said Lynn Nesbitt, his agent since ''The Andromeda Strain.'' ''I can't think of many writers who can match that.'' 
 John Michael Crichton was born in Chicago, the oldest of four children, and grew up in Roslyn, on Long Island. His father was the editor of Advertising Age and later president of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. 
 At Harvard, after a professor criticized his writing style, the younger Mr. Crichton changed his major from English to anthropology and graduated summa cum laude in 1964. He then spent a year teaching anthropology on a fellowship at Cambridge University. In 1966 he entered Harvard Medical School and began writing on the side to help pay tuition. 
 Under the pseudonym John Lange -- the German word for tall was a sly reference to his height, 6 feet 7 inches -- he wrote eight thrillers. Under the name Jeffery Hudson, he wrote ''A Case of Need'' (1968), a medical detective novel that revolved around moral issues posed by abortion. It won an Edgar Award for best novel. 
 In 1969, after earning his medical degree, Mr. Crichton moved to the La Jolla section of San Diego and spent a year as a postdoctoral fellow at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies. Already inclining toward a writing career, he tilted decisively with ''The Andromeda Strain,'' a medical thriller about a group of scientists racing against time to stop the spread of a lethal organism from outer space code-named Andromeda.
 With a breakneck, suspenseful plot that played out against a carefully researched scientific setting, the novel -- he was now writing under his own name -- became an enormous best seller and a successful 1971 Hollywood film, a pattern repeated many times in the years to come. More than a dozen of Mr. Crichton's novels became movies, and he turned his hand to directing, screenwriting and producing for film and television along the way. A television version of ''The Andromeda Strain'' was shown on the A&E network in May.
 After publishing the nonfiction book ''Five Patients: The Hospital Explained'' (1970), Mr. Crichton returned to the best-seller list with ''The Terminal Man'' (1972), an updated ''Frankenstein'' in which an accident victim goes on a killing spree after a tiny computer implant, intended to control his brain, malfunctions. Technology, for Mr. Crichton, never worked quite the way it was intended.
 Having directed ''Pursuit,'' an adaptation of one of his early novels, for television, Mr. Crichton turned to film, directing the low-budget ''Westworld'' (1973), for which he wrote the screenplay, about a virtual-reality theme park that made it possible to enter ancient Rome or the old West. The film's highlight was a showdown between a renegade android gunfighter, played by Yul Brynner, and a luckless businessman played by Richard Benjamin.
 Mr. Crichton followed this quirky project with a series of departures. In his novel ''The Great Train Robbery'' (1975), he turned back the clock to Victorian England to tell the story of a genteel archcriminal (Sean Connery in the film) who relieves a speeding train of its cargo of gold bullion. Then came the novel ''Eaters of the Dead'' (1976), in which he plunged into the mist-shrouded world of the Vikings. ''Jasper Johns'' (1977), a straightforward biography of that painter, completed this rash of projects.
 After directing his adaptation of the Robin Cook novel ''Coma,'' with Genevieve Bujold in the starring role, Mr. Crichton returned to familiar territory in the novel ''Congo'' (1980), about a team of hunters on a jungle expedition in search of a rare variety of diamond capable of being transformed into a power source more efficient than nuclear energy. 
 A remarkably facile writer, with a restless imagination, Mr. Crichton continued to juggle roles as a novelist, screenwriter and director. His marital schedule was also crowded. Mr. Crichton married five times. He is survived by his wife, the former Sherri Alexander, and by a daughter, Taylor. 
 In the 1980s he directed a string of less than memorable films, including ''Looker'' (1981), ''Runaway'' (1984) and ''Physical Evidence'' (1989). The novel ''Sphere'' (1987), about the underwater discovery of a naval vessel from the future, struck many reviewers as a disappointment. He did manage to complete a well-regarded primer on computers, ''Electronic Life'' (1983), but for a time it seemed as though Mr. Crichton might have lost his magic touch.
 Not so. In 1990 he published ''Jurassic Park,'' his immensely successful tale about a theme park inhabited by reconstituted dinosaurs who run wild after the park's security system fails. 
 Part fantasy, part nightmare, the novel ingeniously blended the techno-thriller elements of Mr. Crichton's previous work with the enduring appeal of T. rex and his prehistoric peers. The 1993 film version, directed by Steven Spielberg, became a phenomenal box-office success. Mr. Crichton returned to the dinosaur world in a sequel, ''The Lost World'' (1995), which Mr. Spielberg made into a film in 1997. 
 Those two men met during the filming of ''The Andromeda Strain,'' when Mr. Spielberg had just been hired as a television director by Universal. 
 ''My first assignment was to show Michael Crichton around the Universal lot,'' Mr. Spielberg said in a statement on Wednesday. He added: ''Michael's talent outscaled even his own dinosaurs of 'Jurassic Park.' He was the greatest at blending science with big theatrical concepts, which is what gave credibility to dinosaurs again walking the earth.''
 Mr. Crichton took advantage of his medical training for a television series, ''ER,'' which he had been developing as a film, to be directed by Mr. Spielberg, when ''Jurassic Park'' pre-empted it. Rewritten for television, ''ER'' first appeared on NBC in 1994 and became a long-running hit.
 The growing economic power of Japan inspired ''Rising Sun'' (1992), a political thriller with paranoid overtones. A murder investigation at the Los Angeles offices of a Japanese company uncovers a Japanese plot to displace the United States as a technological leader. A strange combination of crime novel and economic manifesto, the book became, as usual, a successful film, with Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes as the detectives on the case.
 After fending off charges of racism and xenophobia for ''Rising Sun,'' Mr. Crichton found himself in the thick of the debate on climate change with ''State of Fear,'' an eco-thriller in which evil environmentalists whip up hysteria over global warming to advance their sinister agenda.
 Mr. Crichton was attacked by environmentalists for presenting a tendentious picture of the issue. In his defense, Mr. Crichton said that he accepted the reality of climate change but thought that its dangers could not be known with any certainty and had been exaggerated by environmentalists.
 Mr. Crichton seemed to spin out his best-selling yarns effortlessly. A voracious consumer of scientific data and a vivid imaginer of unintended consequences, he drew on nanotechnology to populate ''Prey'' (2002) with horrible tiny robots. In ''Next'' (2006), his most recent novel, pioneering work in genetics and biotechnology unleashes creepy mayhem.
 ''He was extraordinarily knowledgeable about art, science and medicine,'' Ms. Nesbitt, his agent, said. ''He felt that he had a responsibility to educate as well as entertain.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Crichton directing the 1977 film ''Coma.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MGM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Michael Crichton in 2004.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM COOPER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); BIOETHICS (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); CANCER (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); TUITION FEES (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (58%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (53%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

JIM COOPER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, Motion Pictures

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



210 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Slower Spending Hurt Service Sector in October

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The market for jobs in the private sector deteriorated rapidly in October while the service sector contracted sharply as the worst financial crisis in 80 years hammered the United States. 
 Private employers in the country made their deepest job cuts in six years last month and planned layoffs surged to their highest level in nearly five years. 
 The service sector accounts for about 80 percent of the country's economic activity. The Institute for Supply Management said its nonmanufacturing index came in at 44.4, versus 50.2 in September, below the level of 50 that separates expansion from contraction and worse than economists' expectations for 47.5. The report highlighted weakness all around, with employment falling to its lowest on record and new orders tumbling.
 The lone source of good news in the report was that inflation pressures also fell sharply, which should give the Federal Reserve leeway in its efforts to stimulate the economy.
 The institute said its price gauge fell to its lowest level since July 2003 and recorded its largest one-month decline since the index was first reported in 1997.
 Employers cut 157,000 jobs in October, more than had been expected, in a deteriorating labor market that will get worse in the months ahead, according to a report by ADP Employer Services. ADP also said it revised the number of jobs lost in September to 26,000, from the originally reported loss of 8,000. 
 ADP said the private sector job losses in October were the highest since November 2002. Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, said it was ''entirely likely'' to start seeing job losses of 200,000 a month. The ADP report was jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers.
 A report by the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas showed job cuts announced in October totaled 112,884, up 19 percent from September, citing evidence of widespread economic malaise as troubles that began in housing and banking infect the rest of the economy.
 October represented the year's worst month for job cuts for several industries, Challenger said, including industrial goods manufacturing, consumer products, pharmaceutical, food and electronics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INFLATION (75%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (93%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (93%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



211 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Stands Apart as a Holiday Contender

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
The nation has two kinds of retailers these days: those bracing for a grim holiday season, and Wal-Mart. 
 Sales at department stores and specialty retailers are in free fall. They are cutting staff, discounting merchandise and closing stores to survive. But even as the financial turmoil strangled discretionary spending at many stores, it sent struggling consumers into the arms of Wal-Mart -- and left it, the world's largest retailer, poised for a blockbuster Christmas. 
 ''In my mind, there is no doubt that this is Wal-Mart time,'' H. Lee Scott Jr., the company's president and chief executive, said recently at a meeting of analysts and investors in Wal-Mart's hometown, Bentonville, Ark. Referring to the discount chain's founder, he added, ''This is the kind of environment that Sam Walton built this company for.'' 
 During the nation's last severe recession, in the early 1980s, Wal-Mart was mainly a regional chain in the Southeast with fewer than 300 stores. Old-line national discount chains like Woolworth's were fading into irrelevance, but nothing had risen to take their place.
 In the subsequent quarter-century, Wal-Mart spread across the nation, opening some 4,000 stores. The company managed to burn its brand into the consciousness of virtually every American as the place to save money.
 Now, as Americans cope with the worst economy in a generation, heading to Wal-Mart is an automatic reflex for many of them, and it is showing up in the company's numbers. 
 Stephen Quinn, Wal-Mart's chief marketing officer, said the brand had resonated with consumers this year. ''We know that Mom's not going to cancel Christmas,'' he said. ''We're committed to cutting the cost of Christmas. It's what we do.''
 Wal-Mart is expected on Thursday to report a sales increase for October. Gains are likely to be modest by the company's standards -- but in an economy slowing fast, with many other retailers reporting double-digit sales declines, any gain is an achievement.
 In September, sales at Wal-Mart and the company's Sam's Club stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales and a measure of retail health, increased 2.4 percent, not including fuel sales, compared with 1.4 percent for the same period last year. The majority of other retailers had abysmal sales. 
 Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics, a research firm, predicted that Wal-Mart would have a nearly 2 percent increase in same-store sales for October. And the holiday will be, Deutsche Bank analyst Bill Dreher declared, ''a Wal-Mart Christmas.''
 Mr. Perkins said, ''It's going to be a primary destination for a lot of people who may not have gone there in recent years, but who will elect to go there for the price and the value.'' He added that Wal-Mart would gain ''at the expense of a Toys 'R' Us and other more traditional toy retailers.'' 
 Wal-Mart's intention to outperform every other retailer this holiday season led it to open its Christmas shop, an area in its stores, in early October. The retailer also promised to have the lowest prices in the marketplace: Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels sets for $10, and packs of Christmas tree ornaments for $5. 
 Wal-Mart executives said more than once at the Bentonville meeting that they did not want to sound arrogant. But they acknowledged feeling positive about their company right now. ''I sleep very well at night,'' said Eduardo Castro-Wright, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart's United States operations. 
 Few retailers are sleeping as soundly. Many have withdrawn their earnings guidance and privately uttered the word ''bloodbath'' to describe their expectations for the holiday season. 
 ''No doubt the October sales numbers will be disappointing,'' said Kimberly Greenberger, an analyst with Citigroup. 
 That is probably putting it kindly. In the last week, analysts cut their already conservative October same-store sales forecasts. Mr. Perkins expects a drop of at least 9 percent in October same-store sales for department stores, which are deeply reliant on discretionary spending. Saks Fifth Avenue and Nordstrom will most likely have double-digit declines, he said. 
 All of the factors that analysts have identified as hurting October sales at most retailers -- unemployment, declining stock prices, the credit crisis, dreary headlines -- helped drive shoppers to discounters. In fact, while Wal-Mart is far and away the biggest retailer likely to benefit, some others could have gains for October, including BJ's Wholesale Club, Costco and Big Lots.
 Wal-Mart executives point out that the company's success is not entirely a consequence of hard times. Wal-Mart spent the last three years decluttering aisles, shortening checkout lines and cleaning up stores, efforts it celebrated at its annual shareholder meeting in June. 
 Mr. Quinn said Wal-Mart recognized that families were hurting, and it saw an opportunity to connect with consumers who might previously have passed Wal-Mart by.
 ''Nobody has to shop at Wal-Mart,'' he said. ''We have to earn their trust, and we're very aware of that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wal-Mart is expected to report sales gains on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC FRANCIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Wal-Mart hopes its prices will attract consumers this holiday season as the economy slows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BETH HALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); SAM'S CLUB (62%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



212 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall as Service Industries Weaken

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and SHARON OTTERMAN; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks erased all their gains from Tuesday's rally -- the biggest on a presidential Election Day in 24 years -- as investors banked their profits and dealt with another round of bleak economic news, this time about businesses that compose nearly 90 percent of the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 486.01 points on Wednesday after a daylong sell-off accelerated in the final hour, sending the index to 9,139.27, its lowest level in a week. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.3 percent, or 52.98 points, to 952.77, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 5.5 percent, or 98.48 points, to 1,681.64. 
On Wall Street, the selling began early after a report showed that activity in the nation's service industries contracted in October, falling at the fastest rate since records began in 1997.
The index by the Institute for Supply Management dropped to 44.4, from 50.2 in September, on a scale where readings below 50 indicate contraction, the group said on Wednesday.
It was the latest in a string of discouraging data this week on the nation's construction, manufacturing and service industries, crucial pillars of the American economy that have all suffered this fall.
''In short, horrible,'' Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics said of the report. ''But only to be expected in the wake of the equity plunge and the subsequent collapse in confidence. We don't expect the headline to drop much more.''
All 30 stocks in the Dow declined, with financial shares faring worst. Shares of Bank of America, Citigroup and Merrill Lynch all fell more than 11 percent. The big insurers Ambac and MBIA posted deep losses for last quarter and their shares lost 41 percent and 22 percent, respectively.
''I think anytime you do see a rally like we've been having, there will always be a little bit of pullback when people wake up and see things like today's headline number on nonmanufacturing activity, which was the lowest of all time,'' Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, said. ''If there's data out, there's going to be bad news out. That will tend to keep market enthusiasm a little bit contained.''
Earnings also disappointed at several major businesses, offering a bleak assessments of the current economy. GMAC, the finance company partly owned by General Motors, said that it lost $2.52 billion in the third quarter and that its mortgage unit, ResCap, was struggling to survive. Time Warner, the media and entertainment juggernaut, reported a higher-than-expected profit for the third quarter but lowered its outlook; its stock dropped 6.3 percent.
Crude oil prices dropped $5.23 a barrel to settle at $65.30.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 6/32, to 102 13/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.70 percent, down from 3.72 percent late Tuesday.
Wall Street will now turn to Friday's employment report from the Labor Department, which economists expect will show that 200,000 jobs were lost last month. A separate report released on Wednesday by Automatic Data Processing, a private group, showed that private companies cut an estimated 157,000 jobs in October, the most in almost six years.
The A.D.P. report is considered volatile by economists and has been a poor predictor of this year's employment figures from the government. Still, investors can refer to it as a gauge for Friday's more important data, and the news was not good. Layoffs spread from automakers, financial and housing-related companies to retailers and other services as the downturn deepened.
For investors seeking a silver lining, Wednesday's market downturn seemed to indicate that Wall Street was once again reacting in predictable ways to negative news. For weeks, traders were in crisis mode, obsessing about arcane credit gauges like Ted spreads and credit-default swaps, and wondering about the outcome of the election. On the top of the wish list for investors was a return to stability.
''The market is starting to focus on normal things, like company fundamentals, earnings, macroeconomic data, employment, even market technicals like trend lines,'' said Steve Sachs, director of trading at Rydex Investments. ''After four or five weeks where none of that mattered, this is the first week we are thinking about that. Markets are moving in a more orderly way.''
For those curious about the connection between stock markets and presidential elections, Wednesday's declines fit in with historical precedent. Since 1888, on average, stocks fell 0.5 percent from Monday to Wednesday of a presidential election week when the Democrats took the White House, according to Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor at the Wharton School. (A Republican victory brought an average return of 0.7 percent.) This week, stocks fell about 1.5 percent over the same period.
Over the full four-year term, stocks have historically fared better under Democratic administrations.
Stocks in Frankfurt, London and Paris all fell about 2 percent.
Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 77-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Rose at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, when the Dow Jones industrial average lost 486.01 points.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INSURANCE (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



213 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Woe: 'Two Cities' to Close

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
It was the worst of times for Broadway's ''Tale of Two Cities,'' it was ... well, that's about it. The musical adaptation of Dickens's novel of the French Revolution will close on Nov. 16, its producers announced, just under two months after it opened at the Al Hirschfeld Theater. The musical, with a book, music and lyrics by Jill Santoriello, a Broadway newcomer, arrived in New York amid rumblings of an unsure out-of-town tryout in Sarasota, Fla., and relentless comparisons with ''Les Miserables,'' which was revived on Broadway two years ago; it received neither the best nor the worst of reviews when it opened on Sept. 18. In a statement its producers cited ''the recent recession and stock market decline which have resulted in weaker ticket-buying traffic patterns and steep discounting in the industry'' as reasons for closing the show. ''A Tale of Two Cities'' will have played 33 previews and 68 regular performances; a national tour is still planned. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



214 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: ArcelorMittal Joins Rivals in Planning to Cut Steel Output

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steel maker, said Wednesday that it would sharply cut production as global demand waned.
 Like its rivals in China, Japan and Russia, ArcelorMittal is reducing capacity as its customers begin to slow their output. 
 The World Steel Association said on Oct. 22 that global production fell 3.2 percent in September compared with a year earlier, to 108.4 million tons. Production in China, the biggest producer of steel, fell 9 percent in the month.
 The construction industry worldwide, the largest consumer of steel, is in a deep funk. And the auto industry, another major user of the metal, is suffering one of its worst downturns in decades, suggesting that demand will remain weak.
 The steel market so deteriorated in the third quarter that the steel association withdrew its short-term forecast in October, citing ''high economic uncertainty.'' Alexandre Weinberg, an analyst at Petercam in Brussels, predicted that steel prices in 2009 would average about 30 percent below average levels in 2008.
 ArcelorMittal also reported on Wednesday a third-quarter net profit of $3.8 billion, up 29 percent compared with a year earlier, but below the nearly $6 billion that analysts surveyed by Reuters and Bloomberg News had expected. Revenue rose 38 percent, to $35.2 billion.
 The company's shares fell 17 percent in afternoon trading in Paris. They are down more than 60 percent this year. Mr. Weinberg said the share price decline reflected disappointment with the company's guidance for fourth-quarter earnings: $2.5 billion to $3 billion, much worse than the $4.5 billion to $6 billion analysts had projected. 
 The company said it would cut output of flat carbon steel in the United States more than 35 percent and more than 30 percent in Europe. The company will cut output in Asia, Russia and Africa more than 35 percent.
 The production cuts represented a major shift for ArcelorMittal, which had planned to increase output about 20 percent by 2010. As late as Sept. 17, it said it would cut output only 15 percent.
 The company, which has 326,000 employees in more than 60 countries, plans to temporarily idle 12 of its 28 European flat carbon blast furnaces, an ArcelorMittal spokesman, Haroon Hassan, said in London. He said there would be worldwide layoffs, also temporary, as the company brings supply into line with demand without closing plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CLOSINGS (65%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (93%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (93%); MT (PAR) (93%); MT (NYSE) (93%); MT (AMS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (93%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) CHINA (91%); JAPAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (78%); UNITED STATES (76%); FRANCE (75%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



215 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, a Cosmetic Hard Sell

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
COSMETIC doctors have nicknames for the days on which they offer deals on anti-wrinkle shots. 
 Dr. Don Mehrabi, a dermatologist in Beverly Hills, Calif., advertises his weekly promotion as ''Botox Fridays,'' the days on which he lowers his fees by about 30 percent for smoothing out frown lines and crow's feet. 
 On other days of the week, he gives a 10 percent discount to clients who choose a combination of Botox Cosmetic and injections of Juvederm, a gel that plumps the skin.
 ''That percentage off might actually increase because of the economy,'' said Dr. Mehrabi, who posts his deals on his Web site, bhskin.com. ''We are contemplating going up to 20 percent.'' 
 In light of drastic consumer cutbacks on spending, some dermatologists, facial surgeons and plastic surgeons are promoting the kinds of markdowns, coupons or two-fers you might expect to find in supermarket circulars -- complete with restrictions like ''offer not good with any other promotion.'' 
 And it's not just injection specials. The Web sites of some surgeons list promotions like $500 off a single operation or $1,000 off a combination of body or facial surgeries.
 Consumers pay cash up front for cosmetic procedures and, because the treatments are medically unnecessary, they are typically not covered by insurance, which explains why doctors' marketing efforts can resemble a department store white sale.
 ''Giving $1,000 off, you are going to see more of that,'' said Dr. Lawrence S. Reed, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan who does not offer deals on surgery. Dr. Reed said that all upscale businesses -- including plastic surgeons' offices -- are seeking creative marketing strategies to stay afloat. 
 ''You have got to do things to get people into your fancy restaurants, your fancy car dealerships, your plastic surgeon's office, your dermatologist's office,'' he said.
 To be sure, most cosmetic doctors are neither flamboyantly advertising discounts on operations nor marketing fire sales on injections. But the economy has taken a toll on cosmetic practices. Competition from an increased number of doctors entering the cosmetic market has also stimulated more aggressive marketing.
 In private consultations with patients, many plastic surgeons are reducing their fees.
 ''I can't imagine anyone's not doing that,'' said Dr. James H. Wells, a plastic surgeon in Long Beach, Calif. He recently asked 80 colleagues via e-mail messages how they are adapting to the economic downturn. ''They are now willing to discount things anywhere from 10 to 15, 20, 25 percent,'' he said.
 But such price-cutting blurs the line between the tactics of commerce and the practice of medicine, in which physicians have traditionally encouraged treatments based on a patient's condition or concerns, not on the doctor's bottom line.
 Some plastic surgeons said that incentives like discounts, treatment packages or two-for-one deals could induce people who had not previously considered it to have an injection or an operation, or to have more procedures, potentially increasing their risk of medical complications. Promotions in which existing clients receive discounts or special treatment for sending friends to their doctors can also be ethically fraught.
 ''It skews the caution of proper decision-making,'' said Dr. Adam Searle, a plastic surgeon in London who is a former president of the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons. His group has warned against discounts. ''It simply reduces it to a commodity and that's dangerous,'' he said.
 But economic realities are pushing practices once considered unseemly into the mainstream.
 Sixty-two percent of plastic surgeons who responded to a questionnaire from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons reported that they had performed fewer cosmetic procedures in the first six months of this year compared with the same period last year, according to a study the group released last week.
 In response, the plastic surgery society added a forum to its annual conference, which was last weekend in Chicago, entitled: ''Survival Strategies for Tough Economic Times.'' Some speakers at the event recommended that doctors expand their client bases by joining school boards, churches, synagogues, rotary clubs, symphony and museum groups, and breast cancer fund-raisers. Others encouraged doctors to introduce package deals and offer promotions to existing clients who refer their friends. 
 Plastic surgeons traditionally reduce their fees for operations on related areas of the anatomy -- such as a face-lift and an eyelift -- that can be performed in one session, said Dr. Mauro C. Romita, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan. It is also standard practice for doctors to offer discounts on Botox if a patient is having the treatment in more than one area of the face, he said. 
 But discounting is going public this year.
 Under a three-month promotion that ended last Friday, people who bought Restylane, a facial filler, could receive a $50 rebate for one syringe or a $100 rebate for two syringes from Medicis, the brand's distributor in the United States. The tag line for the promotion: ''The economy may not be looking its best, but you can.'' More than 20,000 people redeemed rebate coupons.
 Individual doctors are devising their own deals.
 Dr. Christine A. Hamori, a plastic surgeon in Duxbury, Mass., said she recently mailed a two-fer invitation -- designed and printed by her Medicis sales representative -- to about 3,500 clients. In October, clients could buy two syringes for the price of one $600 syringe of Restylane or one $800 syringe of Perlane, another filler, Dr. Hamori said. 
 Seventy-five people came in for injections; many of them requested additional treatments. In a month in which few people had signed up for expensive operations, those coming in for the injection special filled up her schedule, she said. ''The response was tremendous,'' Dr. Hamori said.
 And some pharmaceutical companies offer volume discounts to select doctors. 
 Dr. Hamori said that when she recently bought 50 vials of Botox, a sales representative from Allergan, which makes Botox, added another 50 vials free. Each vial costs about $500, she said.
 Dr. Mehrabi said that he received one free syringe of a filler called Radiesse from BioForm Medical, the product manufacturer, for every syringe he had sold in September.
 Adam D. Gridley, the senior vice president for corporate development at BioForm, wrote in an e-mail message that the company does not comment publicly ''on specific programs and doctor metrics.'' Jonah Shacknai, the chief executive of Medicis, said that only a few doctors across the country are participating in his company's program to introduce patients to the effects of two syringes. Caroline Van Hove, vice president for corporate communications at Allergan, wrote in an e-mail message that the company does not provide free vials of Botox Cosmetic as a reward for buying the product.
 Some doctors are also lowering their charges for larger procedures.
 Dr. Hamori said she has been reducing her surgical fees in a range of 5 to 10 percent.
 In Indianapolis, Dr. W. Gregory Chernoff, a facial surgeon, decided to lower his prices a few months ago after he noticed a slowdown in face-lifts and hair transplant patients. He calls the 15- to 20-percent reduction in surgical fees a ''professional courtesy.''
 ''We do not want to be a Kmart of cosmetic surgery,'' said Dr. Chernoff, who has also posted holiday special offers, good until Nov. 28, on his Web site. ''That word 'discount' is shunned within our profession.''
 Dr. Wells, a former president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, said that many of his colleagues are now trying to figure out how to provide ''value added'' services to entice clients. He predicted that more doctors will start offering a free anti-wrinkle shot or laser treatment for people having cosmetic surgery. But some doctors may go too far, he said.
 ''My conjecture is we are going to see people go over the line,'' Dr. Wells said.
 Along the hallways of the plastic surgery conference in Chicago, Dr. Wells toted one of his favorite books, ''Cowboy Values,'' an ode to the moral code of the Old West. As his coda to an interview about cosmetic surgery marketing, Dr. Wells opened the book and read a passage aloud to a reporter: ''You never really know the measure of a man until there is adversity or money on the table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BARGAIN BIN: A sampling of the deals being offered by cosmetic doctors who are trying to attract or retain clients amid an economic climate of cost cutting. DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (90%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); DERMATOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); COMPANY STRATEGY (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



216 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: California Reeling: Blight at the Opera

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The economic downturn is being blamed for the recent closing of a regional opera company and the shortened season of a regional orchestra. On Tuesday Opera Pacific, based in Santa Ana, Calif., announced that it would cancel the rest of its 2008-9 season and is likely to close for good, The Orange County Register reported. ''All I can say is that at this moment there are no plans for next season,'' Robert C. Jones, the president and chief executive of the company, told The Register. Elsewhere in Southern California, the Orchestras of Pasadena (created after a 2007 merger of the Pasadena Symphony and Pasadena Pops) has canceled four concerts and asked for the resignation of the executive director, who is the group's highest-paid employee, the Web site of Musical America magazine (musicalamerica.com) reported. ''Investments on which we depended have eroded, as has been the experience of many other nonprofit organizations,'' said Diane C. Rankin, the president of the orchestra's board, according to Musical America. North of the border, however, the Canadian Opera Company announced that it had a surplus of $41,000 for the 2007-8 season, the sixth consecutive surplus for that Toronto-based opera. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



217 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Aid Failed to Halve Drug Making, Report Finds

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BOGOTA , Colombia 

 BODY:
The nearly $5 billion American aid package known as Plan Colombia failed to meet its goal of halving illegal narcotics production, says an American report released Wednesday.
 The Government Accountability Office report does, however, find that the mostly military assistance helped Colombia markedly improve security, with kidnapping and murder rates falling and the armed forces greatly diminishing the leftist rebel threat. 
 The report's release came as American officials were making clear that aid for Colombia, about $660 million in the 2008 fiscal year, would be trimmed because of the financial crisis.
 In addition, a widening scandal over Colombian Army killings of civilians to increase body counts could affect American aid.
 President-elect Barack Obama is among Democrats who have expressed concern over human rights violations in Colombia's long-running conflict.
 Despite record aerial eradication, coca cultivation rose by 15 percent during Plan Colombia's 2000-2006 run, the report said.
 It added that cocaine production rose by less -- 4 percent -- because eradication efforts forced growers to disperse their crops more widely, contributing to lower yields.
 Opium cultivation and heroin production did, however, decline by 50 percent over the period.
 ''I think it's very, very important that a U.S. agency has now said that the U.S. drug war has failed in Colombia,'' said Adam Isacson of the Center for International Policy, a research group in Washington.
 Colombia remains the source of 90 percent of the cocaine in the United States.
 The report was requested by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations committee and now the vice president-elect. It offers recommendations for aid cuts, including turning over to the Colombians operation of vital military aviation units.
 Its authors recommend that American and Colombian officials ''develop a joint plan for turning over operational and funding responsibilities for U.S.-supported programs to Colombia.''
 The timeline remains unclear, and the report cautions that Colombia's security gains are ''not irreversible'' as long as rebels remain a threat.
 The ranks of Colombia's military and police rose to 415,000 from 279,000 in 2007, the report noted, while the leftist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia diminished by half to about 8,000 fighters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); COCAINE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEROIN (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (73%); SCANDALS (73%); OPIUM (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MURDER (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (57%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



218 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Fill 'Er Up

 BODY:
We fear that a $1.50 drop in gas prices was all it took to blunt Detroit's newfound fervor for energy efficiency. 
 Just a few weeks ago, the Big Three American automakers convinced Congress to give them $25 billion in cheap loans to retool their plants to make fuel-efficient cars. Then, with nary a blush, the Ford Motor Company introduced the new star in its line: the 2009, 3-ton, 16-miles-per-gallon, F-150 pickup. 
 The company has spent about $150 million to retool its Dearborn, Mich., plant to make the new truck, and it plans to restore the third shift at the plant in January to meet demand, adding about 1,000 jobs. As for that commitment to fuel economy? The new trucks should be 8 percent more fuel efficient than the 2008 models, on average -- which means that they still use about 50 percent more gas per mile than, say, a Honda Accord. 
 Ford and other automakers are desperate to find any way they can to dig out of their deep economic pit. And old habits die hard. Ford's sales collapsed 30 percent in October -- a third of its weak sales were F-150s. Chrysler saw October sales tumble 35 percent. Sales at General Motors plummeted 45 percent. 
 But even if the F-150 gives Ford a temporary bounce, it is not a long-term solution in a world where energy prices will inevitably rise again. Detroit's automakers must devote their energies and investment dollars to developing the fuel-efficient vehicles of the future rather than tweaking the gas hogs of the past.
 Americans seem to get it. As gasoline soared past $4 a gallon in the summer, consumers fell out of love with trucks and sport-utility vehicles. The auto companies that only a few years before had considered switching to 100 percent truck production were suddenly talking about a complete change in strategy. 
 G.M. sought a buyer for its Hummer line. Ford postponed sending the 2009 F-150s to dealers while it larded on financial incentives to move thousands of 2008's off the lots. The future, they seemed to agree, would require vehicles that sipped, not guzzled. 
 This is still true. Gas prices are falling now because the world is tipping into what may be the deepest recession since the 1930s. At some point that will end. 
 Detroit's problems will not, unless the automakers understand that the days of cheap energy are over. The Big Three made the wrong bet in the 1990s when they decided to put all their eggs in the truck basket -- ceding virtually the entire car market to their Asian rivals. 
 They evidently haven't learned enough from their mistakes. Perhaps Congress, from which the automakers are lobbying for more taxpayer money, can help correct their ways -- at the very least -- by attaching strict fuel-economy requirements to any future aid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



219 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Delta Adds $25 Bag-Check Fee, but Ends a Fuel Surcharge

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines, the nation's biggest carrier, said Wednesday that it would charge some passengers to check their first bag, but that it was eliminating the fuel surcharges to book tickets using frequent-flier miles. 
 Delta, whose merger with Northwest Airlines took place last week, was the last holdout among major airlines in charging a first-bag fee. 
 It said it was adopting the fee as it matched its policies with Northwest, which was among the airlines charging to check luggage.
 ''Delta is adopting proven practices from both Delta and Northwest that have been broadly accepted in the marketplace,'' said Stephen Gorman, a Delta executive vice president and the airline's chief operating officer.
 Shares of Delta fell 7 percent, to $10.48.
 The airline said it planned to charge $15 for checking the first bag, and $25 for a second bag, for passengers traveling within the United States. The new second-bag fee is half what Delta had charged.
 The fee takes effect Dec. 5, and will primarily affect passengers flying on discount economy-class tickets.
 Delta said passengers who had already bought tickets for travel on or after Dec. 5 would be charged the old rate, $50, for a second bag. And those travelers would be allowed to check one bag at no charge, as Delta has been doing.
 Passengers in first or business class and those who have achieved elite status on either Delta or Northwest will be allowed to check three bags without paying a fee. Passengers flying on full coach fares and passengers on international flights can check two bags without an additional charge.
 Meanwhile, Delta said it was dropping surcharges of $25 to $100 that it had been assessing for booking frequent-flier tickets at either Delta or Northwest. The move is effective immediately. Delta had described the step as a temporary measure in the aftermath of record oil prices, which reached $145 a barrel in July. Oil has traded recently at half that price.
 Delta said it would also install a ''coach choice'' program, like the one at Northwest. It allows passengers to select seats in certain parts of the plane, like the aisle, window or exit rows, for fees of $5 to $25, depending on the location of the seats and destination of their flights.
 It said elite members of the frequent-flier programs would still be able to select the seats without charge.
 Delta said passengers should continue to check in at the airline where they bought their ticket. It expects to combine the two airlines' operations completely over the next 12 to 24 months.
 More information is available at www.delta.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); MERGERS (77%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (98%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



220 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 409 words

 BODY:
TAKING
QUESTIONS
This week on the blog, Bettina Seidman, a career coach and founding member of the Career Counselors Consortium, is answering selected readers' questions about changing careers in New York City. Here's an excerpt: 
Q. Many advertisements for jobs ask for ''minimum compensation expectation'' or salary requirements. I don't want to overstate or understate my salary requirements. What's the best way to answer the question without getting weeded out? Bob Johnson
A. The short answer is to respond to questions about what you want by giving a range; never give a single dollar amount. The range should be anywhere from $15,000 to $75,000 based on what you are earning now. When the question is about what you are earning, give the honest gross annual salary.
Q. What advice, if any, do you have for a 20-something facing the current recession? Are there behaviors and practices that could help one survive the recession and contracting job market? K. Boyle Rogers
A. It is always important to raise your profile in your company, in your profession and in your industry. Join professional associations, join company committees, read everything you can about your industry and your profession, write and submit articles to magazines, newsletters, and e-zines.
And try to become even more valuable to your firm -- make recommendations and offer to help other departments if the company is contracting.
Q. I graduated with a B.A. in liberal arts. I'm thinking of going to law school, not out of a great interest in the field of law but out of the thought that a law degree is a solid and desirable one. I have skills which I think would become handy and useful in the field of law (oral language skills, analytical skills, hard working). What do you think? Ricki
A. My recommendation to people considering law school but not totally committed is always the same: Learn everything you can about the difference between working as a lawyer and attending law school. Keep in mind that going to law school eats up all your time. Speak to lawyers who like their work and lawyers who don't.
COMMENT
OF THE DAY
''Why don't we cut the subsidies to real estate developers who are building multimillion-dollar condos that no one but the super-rich can afford to live in? ''
-- Michael Oman-Reagan,on the mayor's announcement of layoffs and tax increases
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
Campaigns Start Now: The race for three City Council seats to be vacated by members elected to new posts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAWYERS (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (65%); TAX LAW (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



221 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Food Storage as Grandma Knew It

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
IN a strictly technical sense, Cynthia Worley is not transforming her basement into a time machine. Yet what's going on this harvest season beneath her Harlem brownstone on 122nd Street, at Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, is surely something out of the past -- or perhaps the future. 
 The space itself is nothing special: Whitewashed granite walls run the width and depth of the room, 16 feet by 60 feet. A forgotten owner tried to put in a cement floor, but the dirt, which takes a long-term view of things, is stubbornly coming back. ''It's basically a sod floor,'' Ms. Worley said. 
 What's important is that the shelves are sturdy, because Ms. Worley and her husband, Haja Worley, will soon load them with 20 pounds of potatoes, 20 pounds of onions, 30 pounds of butternut and acorn squash, 10 heads of cabbage, 60-odd pints of home-canned tomatoes and preserves, 9 gallons of berry and fruit wines, and another gallon or two of mulberry vinegar. 
 The goodies in the pint jars and the carboys come from the Joseph Daniel Wilson Memorial Garden, which the Worleys founded across the street. The fresh produce is a huge final delivery from a Community Supported Agriculture farm in Orange County, which they used all summer. Packed in sand and stored at 55 degrees, the potatoes should keep at least until the New Year. The squash could still be palatable on Groundhog Day, and the onions should survive till spring. Ms. Worley, who counsels and teaches adults for the New York City Department of Education, and Mr. Worley, a neighborhood organizer and radio engineer, will let their basement-deprived friends store vegetables, too. 
 The Worleys, like a number of other Americans, have made the seemingly anachronistic choice to turn their basement into a root cellar. While Ms. Worley's brownstone basement stash won't feed the couple through the winter, she said, ''I think it's a healthy way to go and an economical way.'' 
 According to a September survey on consumer anxieties over higher fuel and food prices from the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State University in Ames, 34 percent of respondents said that they were likely to raise more of their own vegetables. Another 37 percent said they were likely to can or freeze more of their food. The cousin to canning and freezing is the root cellar.
 ''I've been doing local food work for a long time,'' said Rich Pirog, associate director of the Leopold Center, who conducted the study. ''And I'm seeing an increase in articles in various sustainable ag newsletters about root cellaring.'' 
 According to Bruce Butterfield, the research director for the National Gardening Association, a trade group, home food preservation typically increases in a rotten economy. In 2002, the close of the last mild recession, 29 million households bought supplies for freezing, drying, processing and canning. Last year that number stood at only 22 million -- a figure Mr. Butterfield said he expects to rise rapidly.
 Root cellars have long been the province of Midwestern grandmothers, back-to-the-landers and committed survivalists. But given the nation's budding romance with locally produced food, they also appeal to the backyard gardener, who may have a fruit tree that drops a bigger bounty every year while the refrigerator remains the same size. 
 While horticulture may be a science, home food storage definitely can carry the stench of an imperfect art. According to the essential 1979 book, ''Root Cellaring,'' by Mike and Nancy Bubel, some items like cabbage and pears do best in a moist environment below 40 degrees (though above freezing). To achieve this, a cellar probably needs to be vented, or have windows that open. Winter squash and sweet potatoes should be kept dry and closer to 50 degrees -- perhaps closer to the furnace. 
 Other rules of root cellaring sound more like molecular gastronomy. For example, the ethylene gas that apples give off will make carrots bitter. As a general principle, keeping produce in a cool chamber that is beneath the frost line -- the depth, roughly four feet down, below which the soil doesn't freeze -- can slow both the normal process of ripening and the creeping spread of bacterial and fungal rot. These are the forces that will turn a lost tomato in the back of the cupboard into a little lagoon of noxious goo. 
 But if you leave that green tomato on a vine and drape it upside down, it will gradually turn red in three or four weeks. ''I've had fresh tomatoes for Thanksgiving,'' said Jito Coleman, an environmental engineer who practices the inverted tomato -- which should be a yoga pose -- in a root cellar he built in the house he designed in Warren, Vt. 
 People who squirrel away vegetables tend to be resourceful, and they do not limit themselves to the subterranean. Anna Barnes, who runs a small media company and coordinates the Prairieland Community Supported Agriculture in Champaign, Ill., says squash hung in a pair of knotted pantyhose stay unspoiled longer than others. 
 Here, the cold is optional, too. It's the bruising that comes from a squash sitting on a hard countertop, she said, that speeds senescence. (''You wouldn't want to do it in the guest closet,'' Ms. Barnes said. Or, presumably, wear the pantyhose again.)
 Taken to a do-it-yourself extreme, lots of places can become stockrooms. Margaret Christie has surrendered countless nooks in her 1845 Federal-style home in tiny downtown Whately, Mass., to laying away the crops she grows in the family's half-acre vegetable plot. Ms. Christie, 44, a projects director for Community Involved in Sustaining Agriculture, a nonprofit that supports community farming in western Massachusetts, also feeds her husband and three children from their milk goats, laying hens, pigpens and lamb pastures. 
 This year, she swapped a lamb for 40 pounds of sweet potatoes, 40 pounds of onions and 40 pounds of carrots from a neighbor's farm. This cornucopia has colonized the basement, along with the family's own potatoes. ''They're sitting next to the Ping-Pong table,'' she said, in ''five-gallon buckets with window screens for the lids.'' 
 Onions, garlic and pumpkins dwell in an uninsulated attic -- except in midwinter, when that space drops below freezing. Then the vegetables move into the guest bedroom. If that space has already been claimed, they occasionally hide out under the bed of her 11-year-old son. Their homegrown popcorn kernels have a way of turning up everywhere, courtesy of the neighborhood mice, who have developed their own taste for locally grown year-round produce. 
 The contemporary American, for whom a pizza delivery is seldom more than a phone call away, is an oddity in the annals of eating. Elizabeth Cromley, a professor of architectural history at Northeastern University, said that at one time, ''just about every house had special facilities for preserving food.'' 
 Professor Cromley has finished a book called ''The Food Axis: Cooking, Eating, and the Architecture of American Houses,'' which is to be published by the University of Virginia Press in 2010. She said that understanding food preservation is not a frivolous pursuit. More than 400 books instructed 19th-century Americans on how to plan a functional house, with a practical larder, basement and outbuildings, she said. ''You're not going to die if you don't get a new dress,'' she said, ''but if you don't know this, it will kill you.'' 
 Harriet Fasenfest, 55, who lives in Portland, Ore., has been playing with her food for a long time. A semiretired restaurateur, she started ''hacking up'' her small city lot in the Alberta Art District to grow food. (Her husband asked, ''Where will we play Frisbee?'' and Ms. Fasenfest replied, ''The park.'') She also teaches classes on canning and created the Web site portlandpreserve.com. 
 There is no digging a dry refuge from the seep and suck of a Portland winter. So in lieu of a traditional cellar, she applies the scientific method. ''Last year I tried an experiment with four different varieties of apples,'' she said, ''to see how long it took them to rot. So I put them in a box in my shed and then they rotted. It worked!'' 
 When she's not filling her 10-foot-by-10-foot shed, she experiments in the cubbyholes that sit alongside the outdoor cellar stairs. Copra onions, Ms. Fasenfest has found, store better than Walla Wallas. An indoor heating vent can cure butternut squash so effectively that it can probably last in cold storage until the economy turns around (whenever that is). 
 Nevertheless, even those who rhapsodize about the pleasures of eating locally grown food year-round have to admit that the effort doesn't always seem worthwhile. Ms. Fasenfest has been forced to conclude that the labor that went into growing and storing the 30 pounds of russet potatoes now beneath the stairwell was not really adequate to the reward. ''If we had to survive off of those,'' she said, ''we'd be dead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WINTER STASH: Harriet Fasenfest, a backyard gardener, stores produce in a shed and at the base of her cellar stairs, above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CORNUCOPIA: Like a growing number of Americans, Cynthia Worley, top, of Harlem, and Harriet Fasenfest of Portland, Ore., are storing vegetables in root cellars, from onions and cabbage to potatoes and squash.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (TOP, LEFT AND RIGHT) AND LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); FOOD PRICES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (72%); GARDENING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



222 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Night at Christie's, in Both Sales and Prices

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
In a hushed salesroom at Christie's on Wednesday night, works by a wide range of artists, from Manet, Cezanne and Renoir to Rothko and de Kooning, failed to sell, and prices for things that did find buyers often went for far less than what they would have a year ago. 
 ''It's all down to estimates, and people were frightened,'' said James Roundell, a London dealer. 
 Early in the summer, well before the world financial picture darkened, Christie's secured art collections from the estates of two New York philanthropists: Rita K. Hillman, who was president of the Alex Hillman Family Foundation, named for her husband, a publisher who died in 1968; and Alice Lawrence, the widow of Sylvan Lawrence, a Manhattan real estate developer who died in 1981. Since both collections center on late 19th- and 20th-century art, Christie's decided to put the two collections together and hold a special sale that it called ''The Modern Age.'' 
 From a sales standpoint, estate items are usually attractive because they are perceived as fresh material that has not been on the market for years. But in this case the works were not good enough to warrant the estimated prices, given the grim financial climate. 
 ''The estimates were from an earlier time, and the market has changed now,'' said Christopher Burge, honorary chairman of Christie's in America and the evening's auctioneer. 
 In the case of the Lawrence property, Christie's had given the estate a guarantee -- an undisclosed sum regardless of the outcome of the sale -- so the auction house could set its own reserves (that is, the undisclosed minimum prices that bidders must meet for the art to be sold). Even after those reserves were lowered, the audience barely bit.
 The two collections brought a total of $47 million, less than half of its $104 million low estimate. Of the 58 lots, 17 failed to sell. (Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million, and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 Of the 30 works from the Lawrence collection, the highlight was expected to be ''No. 43 (Mauve),'' a classic 1960 Rothko painting. The dark abstract canvas was estimated at $20 million to $30 million, far beyond the $1.5 million the couple paid for it at Sotheby's in 1988. Mr. Burge opened the bidding at $10 million, but he had no takers. (Before the auction, experts grumbled that the painting had condition issues.) 
 Other casualties were a 1970 abstract drawing by de Kooning, estimated at $500,000 to $700,000, and a 1964 crushed metal sculpture by John Chamberlain, estimated at $900,000 to $1.2 million. 
 One of the few works that several people were willing to reach for was Magritte's ''Empire of the Lights'' (1947), a gouache of one of the artist's most famous images -- a nocturnal street scene featuring a spookily shuttered house and a brilliant blue sky with puffy white clouds. David Benrimon, a New York dealer, bought the work for $3.1 million ($3.5 million including Christie's fees), just above its high estimate of $3 million. 
 Anything connected with Francis Bacon has been a hit at auction in recent years, and Christie's was selling a portrait of George Dyer, Bacon's companion, who committed suicide in 1971. The image was painted by Lucian Freud in 1966. The salesroom perked up when three bidders tried for the painting, which ended up bringing its low estimate of $1.8 million, or $2 million with Christie's commission. 
 The evening began with 28 paintings and works on paper from the Hillman collection. In the hope of warming up the audience, Christie's had choreographed the sale so that several lower-priced drawings went on the block first. But that did not help. Early on, a Cezanne watercolor landscape from 1904-6, ''The Cathedral at Aix From the Studio at Les Lauves,'' was expected to bring $4 million to $6 million. It failed to sell. One bottom-feeder was willing to pay $2.8 million. 
 One work that sold for about its low estimate was Leger's ''Study for a Nude Model in the Studio,'' an oil and gouache on paper from 1912. It not only was a study for a painting he completed the following year but also prefigured his iconic series ''Contrast of Forms.'' The black-and-white work of curves and angles sold to a telephone bidder for $2.9 million, or $3.3 million with fees, right at its low estimate. 
 The evening's most expensive work turned out to be De Chirico's ''Metaphysical Composition,'' from the Hillman collection, a 1914 oil on canvas in which a bizarre assemblage of objects like a foot and an egg form a still life in an outdoor setting. The painting has a particularly distinguished past: it initially belonged to the artist's dealer, Paul Guillaume, and after his death was owned by a succession of writers and artists including Paul Eluard. The painting had three bidders, and it sold to an unidentified telephone bidder for $5.4 million, or $6.1 million with Christie's fees, just above its $6 million low estimate. 
 More expensive works had no takers, including Manet's ''Young Girl on a Bench,'' an 1880 portrait of a girl with a wide-brim hat that was expected to bring $12 million to $18 million. 
 There were bargains to be had. An 1897 portrait by Toulouse-Lautrec of Henri Nocq, a Belgian artist and craftsman, showing him in his studio in front of a painting, was priced at $6 million to $9 million. A lone telephone bidder was able to get it for $3.9 million, or $4.4 million with Christie's commission. 
 After the sale, many people criticized Christie's for trying too hard to market what were not perceived as great collections. The auction house had printed separate hardbound catalogs for each collection and several promotional brochures trumpeting the sale. ''It was all down to packaging,'' Mr. Roundell said. ''It was mutton dressed as lamb.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The many empty seats at Christie's auction of Impressionist and modern art on Wednesday reflected the economic pinch.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); CHARITIES (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



223 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: OKLAHOMA: McCain

 BODY:
By one measure, Oklahoma is now the most Republican state in the nation. Senator John McCain carried it by a bigger margin, 65.6 percent, than any other. 
 Republicans also won a majority in the State Senate, giving them control of both chambers of the State Legislature for the first time since Oklahoma became a state in 1907.
 Senator James M. Inhofe, a Republican who is one of the most vocal critics in Congress of the theory of global warming, won re-election to a fourth term, defeating State Senator Andrew Rice, a Democrat, and a conservative candidate who ran as an independent, Stephen P. Wallace. 
 During his campaign, Mr. Inhofe blamed the mortgage crisis on federal policies that, he said, forced banks to extend loans to people who could not afford them. As a solution to the economic crisis, he advocated renewing President Bush's tax cuts.
 The only incumbent Democrat in Oklahoma's five-member Congressional delegation, Dan Boren, the son of a former Oklahoma governor, won re-election after a campaign in which he emphasized his membership in Congress's Blue Dog Coalition of conservative Democrats. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain............... 959,645 66% 100% reporting Obama................ 502,286 34% SENATOR Inhofe (R) ......... 763,063 57% 100% reporting Rice (D) ............. 527,528 39% Other .....................55,676 4% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); TAX LAW (70%); GOVERNORS (58%); GLOBAL WARMING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JIM INHOFE (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAN BOREN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



224 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Two Media Giants Report Sharply Differing Results

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Two of the world's biggest media conglomerates reported quarterly earnings Wednesday that were starkly different, and their chief executives struck different tones about how the economic downturn is affecting the media and entertainment world.
 Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, said in a conference call with Wall Street analysts Wednesday afternoon that he expects the current crisis to persist through at least 2009, calling circumstances ''extremely challenging for media'' and anticipating a ''prolonged economic slump.''
 Meanwhile, earlier in the day Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, declared that ''our businesses have proved to be resilient'' in the challenging environment. 
 Both companies lowered their outlook for future quarters. But News Corporation reported a decline in profits for the recent quarter, while Time Warner's net income was roughly equal to the same period last year, as growth at the company's cable networks offset drops at AOL and the Time Inc. magazine publishing arm and the Warner Brothers film studio. 
 In the last week, other big media companies have reported earnings, including CBS and Viacom, and virtually all have ratcheted down expectations based on the slumping economy, which has hit advertising particularly hard. 
 The News Corporation, which owns Fox News Channel, the 20th Century Fox movie studio, the Fox broadcast network, The Wall Street Journal and many other newspapers in the United States, Britain and Australia, reported a 30 percent decline in net income, compared with same period last year. Net income in the quarter was $515 million, or 20 cents a share, compared with $732 million, or 23 cents a share, in the year-ago period. 
 Revenue at the News Corporation was up 6.3 percent to $7.5 billion.
 The top performer at the company was its cable networks unit, which includes Fox News. Operating income in this segment was $379 million, up $90 million. At Fox News itself, operating income grew 27 percent. The company did not release a dollar figure, only the percentage gain.
 In a statement, Mr. Murdoch said, ''I'm pleased that our cable group continues to perform extremely well,'' but then acknowledged that ''all media companies are being tested and the year ahead will be difficult.''
 The News Corporation's movie studio had a rough quarter, reporting a $111 million decline in operating income because of a dearth of hit movies. 
 At Time Warner the situation was a bit brighter, although the company still faces its long-running problem of how to revitalize AOL and Time Inc., its magazine publishing unit.
 Over all, Time Warner reported net income of $1.1 billion in the quarter, the same as last year. Revenue was also flat at about $11.7 billion.
 Time Warner's businesses include the Warner Brothers movie studio, the pay-TV channel HBO, cable networks CNN, TBS and TNT, Time Inc. and AOL. Because of this variety, the company can be a bellwether for the advertising economy in general.
 Like the News Corporation, Time Warner's cable networks performed well, and advertising revenue across the unit rose 9 percent. Over all, revenues for the company's cable networks grew 7 percent to $2.7 billion.
 But at AOL and Time Inc. the advertising picture was starkly different. Time Inc., which includes magazines like Time, Fortune and Sports Illustrated, had a decrease of 8 percent, or $51 million, in advertising revenue. Last week Time Inc. said it would streamline its structure and lay off about 600 people, or about 6 percent of its staff. On Wednesday, Mr. Bewkes described it as ''the most comprehensive overhaul in Time Inc.'s history.'' He said the overhaul would bring $150 million annual savings.
 Mr. Bewkes has been chief executive of Time Warner, once the world's largest media company, for about a year. He said his strategy has been to focus on a handful of big content brands.
 ''It illustrates the importance of having brands with scale,'' he said. ''People is the best example. More people read People each week than watched the finale of 'American Idol.' ''
 AOL, which Time Warner has been trying to shed in a deal, perhaps with Yahoo, had a decline in advertising revenue of 6 percent, or $33 million. This is particularly disheartening for the company, as it suggest that online advertising is also in retreat.
 Time Warner shares dropped 68 cents, or 6.3 percent, to close at $10.15. The News Corporation, whose earnings were released after the market close, dropped $1.06, or 9.7 percent, to close at $9.93. Shares in the News Corporation dropped $1.13 after the close.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (88%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (67%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); NEWS CORP (94%); TIME WARNER INC (84%); TIME INC (83%); VIACOM INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%)

PERSON: JEFF BEWKES (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



225 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2350 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, November 6, 2008

 BODY:
Foreign
 CONGRATULATING WITH ONE HAND, MEDVEDEV WARNS WITH THE OTHER
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia sent President-elect Barack Obama a congratulatory telegram, according to the Kremlin. But, in a bristling speech to the Federal Assembly, Mr. Medvedev promised to place short-range missiles on Russia's western border if Washington proceeded with its planned missile defense system in Eastern Europe. PAGE A6 
 RUMORS SWIRL ABOUT PLANE CRASH
 Mexican officials tried to rein in swirling speculation over the cause of a plane crash on Tuesday evening that killed the interior minister, who helped oversee the fight against the country's violent drug cartels. The authorities, who said the crash appeared to have been an accident, promised a thorough investigation and took unusual actions to head off rumors. Above, forensic workers survey the scene of the crash. PAGE A6 
 REPORT ON GEORGIAN CLUSTER BOMBS
 Georgian military forces fired more cluster munitions during their war with Russia in August than originally thought, and some of the weapons may have malfunctioned, causing civilian casualties when they fell short of military targets and hit Georgian villages, according to new research by Human Rights Watch. PAGE A12 
 AFGHANS SAY U.S. HIT WEDDING
 Tensions between American forces and the Afghan government over civilian casualties from coalition airstrikes spiked anew with a report by Afghan officials that a missile launched from an American aircraft had killed 40 civilians and wounded 28 others at a wedding party in the southern province of Kandahar. The United States military command said it was conducting an urgent investigation with the Afghan Interior Ministry, although the command's statement made no mention of a missile strike or any death toll. PAGE A17 
 NEW AMERICAN EMBASSY IN IRAQ
 The vast new American Embassy in the heavily guarded part of Baghdad known as the Green Zone cost well over half a billion dollars and has not yet officially opened. But the ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker, welcomed about 250 Iraqi officials, diplomats and dignitaries for a preliminary glimpse in what was described as a party to celebrate the American presidential election. PAGE A17 
 55 TIBETANS SENTENCED FOR RIOT
 Fifty-five Tibetans have received prison sentences for their actions in the March 14 ethnic riot that engulfed Lhasa, the capital of the Tibet Autonomous Region in western China, according to a senior Chinese official quoted by Xinhua, the state news agency. The report was the first by an official news source stating the number of sentences handed down after the riot, which erupted days after monks staged peaceful protests in Lhasa. PAGE A12 
 NATIONAL
 JUSTICES CONSIDER CASE
 Of Man Denied Asylum
 The Supreme Court heard arguments over the fate of a former guard in an Eritrean prison where inmates were tortured and killed. An immigration judge, citing a law that bans asylum for people who have participated in persecution, denied his bid. But the former guard, Daniel G. Negusie, has said he would have been executed had he tried to quit and seeks an exception to the law. PAGE A21
 TRYING TO SUCCEED THE WINNERS
 The election of Barack Obama as president and Joseph R. Biden Jr. as vice president will lead to two openings in the Senate, with the decisions about who will fill the seats to be made by the governors of Mr. Obama's and Mr. Biden's home states. And the jockeying is already well under way. PAGE A23 
 SIGNS, SIGNS, EVERYWHERE SIGNS
 Over the years Los Angeles has maintained a mainly laissez faire attitude toward billboards, which helps explain why no one knows how many there are, or where they are. But a vote is coming on a measure that would halt billboard conversions and new construction while council members try to get a handle on things. PAGE A21
 CHICAGO SEEKS OBAMA DIVIDEND
 Chicago's leaders, buffeted of late with news about murders, crooked politics and police brutality, are hoping the election of Senator Barack Obama, the hometown candidate, will bring some more positive attention the city's way. PAGE A23 
 MEATPACKER FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY
 The Iowa kosher meatpacking company that has been battling criminal charges, huge fines for labor violations and other issues related to an immigration raid in May at its main plant has filed for bankruptcy. PAGE A21
 ANTI-BIAS MEASURE DEFEATED
 The ballot initiative in Florida was intended to end a legacy of bias against Asian-Americans. But it lost, a fact that stunned supporters are attributing to a mix of confusion and prejudice. Some voters apparently assumed -- incorrectly -- that it would have prevented illegal immigrants from owning property. PAGE A22 
 OBITUARIES
 CECIL STOUGHTON, 88
 The chief photographer for the Kennedy White House whose photographs included one of the signal images of the 20th century -- Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson's swearing-in aboard Air Force One on Nov. 22, 1963 -- and the one above, taken just after, of Johnson consoling Jackie Kennedy. PAGE A30
 NEW YORK
 PLAN FOR SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
 Reflects Bleak Outlook
 City officials said that they would spend $11.3 billion to create 42 schools enrolling 25,000 children over the next five years, a far less ambitious agenda for building and renovation than the capital plan presented five years ago. The scaled-down blueprint, quietly released hours after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the city's latest round of budget cuts, above, reflected the administration's view of a bleak economic outlook. PAGE A22
 MAYOR MAY PAY FOR ELECTION ROLE
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican turned independent, publicly injected himself into the Republicans' effort to keep control of the State Senate this year, contributing $500,000 to the party and endorsing six of its candidates. But four of the six lost, and now he may pay the price in Albany, where he has long struggled to win allies. PAGE A25 
 A NEW ENGLAND TRADITION ENDS
 Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, the last Republican representative from New England, ran out of rope after 10 terms in Congress, losing to a political newcomer. ''I think I had this intuition that I would be killed on the battlefield,'' he said. ''I didn't want to retire and be handed some flowers.'' Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE A24 
 SPORTS
 EXTENSIVE SCOUTING LEAVES
 Few Secrets in N.B.A.
 The prevalence of video, the proliferation of scouts roaming from city to city and the encyclopedic memories of most coaches have drastically reduced the actual surprise of what teams see from the other side in the N.B.A. In baseball terms, ''It's like a batter being up on the plate and a runner being on second base and signaling what the pitch is going to be and where it's going to be,'' one coach said. PAGE B13
 A JOE LOUIS MOMENT
 In 1990, when Michael Jordan was asked why he failed to publicly support the former Charlotte mayor Harvey Gantt, an African-American, in a Senate race in North Carolina against the conservative Republican Jesse Helms, he responded, ''Republicans buy sneakers, too.'' That sort of profit-based neutrality for professional athletes may be changing now, William C. Rhoden writes in Sports of The Times. PAGE B13
 STRIVING FOR BALANCE
 As a freshman at the University of Utah in 2004, Brian Johnson was told to follow Alex Smith, then the Utes' starting quarterback, and do everything he did. Now Johnson is a senior and is trying to do what Smith did: lead the team to a berth in a Bowl Championship Series game. PAGE B15 
 BUSINESS
 WHY A TUMBLING ECONOMY
 Has Some People Smiling
 While sales at department stores and specialty retailers are in free fall, victims of the financial meltdown, Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, is poised for a blockbuster Christmas. ''This is the kind of environment that Sam Walton built this company for,'' Lee Scott, the company's president and chief executive, recently said at a meeting of analysts and investors. PAGE B1
 A LOWER BONUS IS STILL A BONUS
 A new report says that Wall Street bonuses could drop by 20 percent to 35 percent across the financial industry, and bonuses for top executives could plunge by 70 percent. But some people -- the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, among them -- wonder why, under the circumstances, Wall Street executives should get any bonuses at all. PAGE B1
 TACTICS TO TAME AD ONSLAUGHT
 Overwhelmed by loud TV commercials, a mailbox full of junk mail, an e-mail inbox full of spam? There are ways to reduce -- or even eliminate -- the advertising that has spread like kudzu over our analog and digital lives. In some cases, technology make the fight easier. PAGE B8
 MERCHANTS BATTLE CREDIT CARD FEES
 A tight economy has advanced an issue long at the hearts and bottom lines of some small-business owners: credit card fees. Some merchants are pushing for legislation in Congress that would compel banks to negotiate the fees and are supporting a second measure that one of its sponsors calls a ''credit card bill of rights for merchants.'' PAGE B4
 Google Walks Away From Yahoo B1
 Steel Maker Cutting Production B9
 Smartphones That Save Money B8 
 HOME
 FOOD STORAGE
 The Old-Fashioned Way
 Some people see a basement and think, rec room and big-screen TV. Other people see a basement and think, butternut squash and potatoes. The second group has the ones who are making like Grandma and laying up vegetables for the winter. PAGE D1
 A BLANKET FOR THE ATTIC
 Even when prices for energy are down, it's still not a good idea to waste it by heating the outdoors along with the indoors. To combat that, the first thing to do is add insulation. And the part of the house most people can do something about is the attic. PAGE D2
 Planting Roots in Communities D6
 Culture
 GUNPLAY AND CANNIBALISM,
 All in a Night at the Theater
 For the cast of ''Blasted,'' a play by Sarah Kane known for shock value, coping with the play's bloody drama came down to survival by choreography. The three actors who perform brutal act after brutal act in the 90-minute performance decided to focus on their physical movements to avoid dwelling on what those movements, put together, meant. The strategy for mental preservation is working, and good thing, the show has received two extensions at the Soho Rep, Patrick Healy writes. Page C1 
 A BLUR OF OPIUM AND WORDS
 A ship that was once a slaver, peopled by eccentrics, blowhards, runaway lovers and outcasts, the Ibis sails on the back of the opium trade. In ''Sea of Poppies,'' by Amitav Ghosh, a woman and her neighbors transport poppies for opium production to a British-run factory in Ghazipur, in colonial India. But that tale is liberally garnished by supporting characters and wrapped in thick, polyglot jargon that gives the book a mischievous linguistic fascination, Janet Maslin writes. Page C1 
 DISABILITY AND COMEDY
 Nine short plays, all of which deal with disability and are played by those with disabilities, would seem an easy recipe for gloom. Not so. ''Funny as a Crutch,'' at the Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, showcases shorts of an often absurdist and skewed nature. ''Cripperella'' is an obvious reference. One moment of weight in the play comes in the piece ''All That He Can Be,'' about an armed forces recruiter and a young man determined to follow the family legacy, Neil Genzlinger writes. Page C3 
 Style
 IN HARD TIMES, TIGHTEN THE BELT.
 Maybe Wait on the Skin, Though.
 More economic ripples, and this time it's hitting the cosmetic surgery industry. You know times are tough when plastic surgeons are offering deals with names like Botox Friday, as if facial surgery and surgically enhanced beauty are the next 31 flavors at the local ice cream shop. Since insurance typically does not cover cosmetic procedures, doctors are having to market to those emptying pockets accordingly. Page E1 
 ADVISING AGAINST PLASTIC SURGERY
 Dr. Gerald Pitman gave a lecture at the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan, and his subject matter strayed from tucks, lifts, implants and liposuction. Instead, he suggested how to avoid plastic surgery. Dr. Pitman gives advice contrary to what you might expect from a cosmetic surgeon. Diet, exercise and a number of behavioral changes were suggested to help give the appearance that the clock has rolled back. Page E3 
 Editorial
 EQUALITY'S WINDING PATH
 As Barack Obama's victory showed, the path to change is arduous. Even as the nation shattered one barrier of intolerance, we were disappointed that voters in four states chose to reinforce another. Ballot measures were approved in Arkansas, Arizona, Florida and California that discriminate against couples of the same sex. PAGE A32
 FILL 'ER UP
 We fear that a $1.50 drop in gas prices was all it took to blunt Detroit's newfound fervor for energy efficiency. Even if the 3-ton, 16 miles-per-gallon F-150 pickup gives Ford a temporary bounce, it is not a long-term solution in a world where energy prices will inevitably rise again. PAGE A32
 THE UNWORTHY GENTLEMAN
 The Senate could soon face the embarrassment of watching Senator Ted Stevens return as the first member ever re-elected after being found guilty of criminal charges. Before that, the august body should show bipartisan gumption and expel him. PAGE A32
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 The contribution of baby boomers was making the nation get serious about the idea of everybody being created equal. And now American children are going to grow up unaware that there's anything interesting in an African-American president or a female presidential candidate. PAGE A33
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The United States will enjoy an Obama dividend of global good will in the coming months, a chance to hammer out progress on common threats. One of Barack Obama's challenges will be to harness the extraordinary idealism that he inspired in his campaign and channel it to a larger, national cause. PAGE A33
 FINALLY, A THIN PRESIDENT
 The novelist Colson Whitehead discusses race, weight and the improbability of a thin man in the White House. PAGE A33

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); SENTENCING (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); RIOTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRISONS (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); TORTURE (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); FORENSICS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); CARTELS (55%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIBET (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



226 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: MICHIGAN: Obama

 BODY:
As the economic crisis reshaped the presidential race in early October, Senator John McCain abandoned his campaign in Michigan, a state where he had spent $8 million on advertisements and had made repeated appearances. 
 That decision might have affected Republican candidates farther down the ticket, as Democrats won close House contests against Republican incumbents, giving Democrats an 8-to-7 edge in the state's delegation. Representative Joe Knollenberg, an eight-term Republican, lost to Gary Peters, a Democrat and former state lottery commissioner, in the Detroit suburbs. Jack Kevorkian, the so-called suicide doctor, won more than 9,000 votes. 
 In the district that includes Battle Creek, Representative Tim Walberg, a first-term Republican, lost to Mark Schauer, the State Senate Democratic leader. 
 Voters passed a ballot initiative to legalize medical marijuana, and another to loosen restrictions on stem cell research. 
 Carl Levin, a Democratic incumbent, easily defeated a field of Senate candidates that included Jack Hoogendyk, a Republican state representative. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain ............. 2,044,405 41% 100% reporting Obama .............. 2,867,680 57% Other ...................... 81,414 2% SENATE Hoogendyk (R) 1,639,165 34% 100% reporting Levin (D) ........ 3,033,550 63% Other .................... 170,834 4% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (88%); LOTTERIES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BALLOTS (71%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (68%); REFERENDUMS (68%); CANNABIS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); GARY PETERS (58%); MARK SCHAUER (58%); JOE KNOLLENBERG (56%); TIM WALBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



227 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: With Budget Shrinking, Schools Will Get Fewer New Buildings

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
City officials said on Wednesday that they would spend $11.3 billion to create 42 schools enrolling 25,000 children over the next five years, a far less ambitious agenda for building and renovation than the capital plan presented five years ago. The scaled-down blueprint, quietly released hours after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the city's latest round of budget cuts, reflected the administration's view of a bleak economic outlook. 
 Five years ago, the mayor held a news conference to announce with much fanfare a plan to create 76 new school buildings and to provide wireless Internet networking for all city schools. On Wednesday, the 185-page plan was released without even a statement from the mayor or Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein. Roughly 8,000 of the seats had been included in the previous plan but never built. 
 ''We cannot afford to continue spending at the same levels as in recent years, when we undertook the largest capital construction program in our city's history,'' reads the introduction to the document. In May, Mr. Bloomberg said that he would stretch a four-year construction plan for the city to five years, through 2014, and that the school construction plan would be similarly extended. 
 School officials said Wednesday that they were confident even the more modest approach would help reduce crowding in parts of the city where the population has boomed in recent years. 
 ''This not only creates new seats with construction, we're also looking at other ways to provide space in schools, whether through rezoning or grade configuration, in an efficient way,'' said Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Education Department. ''We also have to take into consideration the high costs of construction now as well.'' 
 In 2008, the average cost per square foot for school construction was $468, compared with $314 five years ago, Ms. Feinberg said.
 Enrollment in elementary and middle schools is expected to decline in the next several years, according to the report, but there are many neighborhoods that have crowded schools that are likely to see spikes in population. 
 The plan allocates $3.7 billion for new school buildings across the city, with 11 planned for Brooklyn and 16 for Queens. Unlike previous capital plans, which were criticized for relying exclusively on large school district zones that often spanned several neighborhoods, this year's plan outlines specific areas in need of new buildings. 
 While the plan does not give exact sites for schools, it says that they will be in Chelsea, TriBeCa, Gramercy and on the Upper East Side in Manhattan, as well as in the Kingsbridge and Riverdale areas of the Bronx. In Brooklyn, housing growth is expected to create a need for new schools in the Fort Greene area, Sunset Park, Park Slope, Dyker Heights and Midwood. 
 In Queens, nearly every neighborhood needs a new school, in large part because much of the new construction outlined in the 2003 capital plan was never built. 
 The state and the city are expected to split the cost of construction. Officials said they will also continue to seek money through private contributions and federal grants. 
 Hours before the plan was released, Mr. Klein sought to assuage fears about the 475 Education Department positions scheduled for elimination under the mayor's budget cuts.
 ''Trust me, this is not something I wanted to do,'' Mr. Klein said. ''Quite the contrary; I wish we had more resources and more things for our kids, but given the current environment we have to live with it and make the adjustments.'' 
 Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said that while the union fought ''tooth and nail over every cut'' last year, the economic picture had changed, and some reductions would be inevitable. 
 Leonie Haimson, the executive director of Class Size Matters, which advocates for smaller classes, called the capital plan ''breathtakingly inadequate.'' 
 ''The administration clearly does not care enough about providing our students with a decent education, from the evidence provided in this plan,'' Ms. Haimson said. ''If you count the seats rolled over from the last plan, this means the city proposes creating only 17,000 new seats, compared to 66,000 when the last plan was introduced.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); ZONING (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



228 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Has Tech Answer For Woes Of Economy

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M.'s chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano, is proposing a technology-fueled economic recovery plan that calls for public and private investment in more efficient systems for utility grids, traffic management, food distribution, water conservation and health care.
Recent technology advances make this possible, and the need is apparent, Mr. Palmisano will say in a speech he is scheduled to deliver Thursday to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. Sixty-seven percent of electrical energy, for example, is lost because of inefficient power generation and grid management. Congested highways cost $78 billion a year in squandered working hours and gas burned. 
Mr. Palmisano's speech never mentions I.B.M., but his proposal has a self-serving side. I.B.M. is increasingly playing the role of lead contractor in these so-called smart infrastructure projects around the world, from a traffic management network in Stockholm to electric grids in Texas.
Some economists and policy experts say similar projects are a good way to improve the long-term health of the economy, potentially providing a foundation for innovation and growth across a range of industries.
Applying more computing intelligence to help transform fields like transportation, energy and health care will be ''critical to solving an array of pressing public problems,'' said Robert Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan research group.
''The countries that take the lead in this area will be the nations that enact the best public-private partnerships,'' said Mr. Atkinson, who has seen the text of the speech.
In an interview, Mr. Palmisano compared today's economic challenge, in broad strokes, with that faced by the United States as it struggled to emerge from the Depression or after World War II. In the 1930s, he said, the New Deal programs, among other things, brought electrical service to much of country -- not only to rural homes, but also to factories, which no longer needed to build their own power plants, as many had previously.
After World War II, Mr. Palmisano said, the government's construction of a national highway system helped create larger markets for goods.
''We're at a similar stage now in that these are difficult economic times,'' he said. ''The right way through it is not to hunker down, but to step up and invest and improve our competitiveness.''
In his speech, Mr. Palmisano points to the technology trends that are beginning to make his proposal possible and affordable. Items ranging from cars, appliances and packaged goods to roadways and utility wires, he says, are increasingly ''instrumented'' with transistors, sensors and radio frequency ID, or RFID, tags, ''interconnected'' over the Internet and ''intelligent'' because of advanced software that communicates with vast supercomputing data centers.
In energy, for example, computerized grids, thermostats and appliances can sense and communicate line failures or automatically turn off air-conditioners during peak load times to save money and fuel.
I.B.M., to be sure, is one of many companies developing smarter grids, roads, food distribution and water conservation systems. In the technology sector, Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Oracle, SAP, Accenture and others are working on bringing computing intelligence to physical systems, Ted Schadler, an analyst at Forrester Research, said. But no other company, he said, yet has the breadth of hardware, software, services and research scientists to tackle these challenges.
''What seems different and noteworthy about the I.B.M. approach is its sweeping comprehensiveness and message,'' said Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a professor at the Harvard Business School. ''Putting the pieces together under one inclusive and rather bold label can stimulate discussion and innovation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); PACKAGED GOODS (72%); TRENDS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



229 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Says Decline in Sales Could Be as Much as 10%

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Cisco Systems warned that a sharp drop in sales could push revenue down by as much as 10 percent. 
 The computer networking giant, the first major technology company to report financial results that include October, when the credit crisis spread beyond financial companies, said Wednesday that its sales fell by 9 percent in the month, compared to a year earlier. Cisco expects sales for its current quarter to drop 5 to 10 percent from the $9.8 billion reported in the same period last year. 
 ''The environment has changed dramatically in the last two months,'' John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said in a conference with Wall Street analysts. 
 At times, Mr. Chambers sounded flummoxed by the state of the economy and growing pessimism among customers. ''I think we are in a little bit of uncharted waters,'' he said, adding that ''it is probably the second most difficult time in my career'' to provide a comfortable forecast about where things are heading. Revenue dropped 15 percent in its fiscal 2002, compared with 2001 when technology spending on the Internet collapsed.
 The company's executives stressed that Cisco's experience with the boom-bust nature of technology have it well positioned to emerge from the downturn unscathed. More than 60 percent of Cisco's top executives were around during the dot-com bust.
 ''We have been through this four or five times,'' Mr. Chambers said. ''Each time we have done this we have come out in very strong financial shape.''
 During its first quarter ended Oct. 25, the company, based in San Jose, Calif., reported net income of $2.2 billion, or 37 cents a share, flat against year-ago net income of $2.21 billion, or 35 cents a share. Excluding charges, Cisco earned 42 cents a share, beating the 39 cents a share Wall Street analysts polled by ThomsonReuters had predicted. 
 Cisco's first-quarter sales rose 8 percent, to $10.3 billion, from $9.55 billion. 
 The company has now joined fellow technology giants Intel, Microsoft and Dell in issuing apprehensive forecasts of technology sales in 2009. 
 ''There was a completely different environment as we got into October,'' Cisco's chief financial officer, Frank Calderoni, said in an interview.
 Cisco had been expected to increase second-quarter revenue by about 7 percent, so the revelation that Cisco expected second-quarter revenue to decline, possibly by double digits, arrived as a shock.
 ''I would say that is dramatically lower than what we were thinking,'' said Simona Jankowski, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''We're getting the first look at what's going on in October, and it's pretty scary.''
 Cisco has started to cut costs as it looks to weather current conditions, pulling back on hiring, contractors, travel, marketing and recruiting. In total, Cisco hopes to carve out $1 billion in expenses during its current fiscal year.
 ''There is no major round of layoffs coming, but they are going to really slash costs wherever they can,'' said Mark Sue, a networking analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
 Cisco continues to maintain a long-term growth goal of 12 to 17 percent.
 While blaming economic weakness in the United States for the falling sales, Mr. Chambers expressed some optimism. ''In our opinion, the U.S. will be the first major country to recover,'' he said.
 Shares of Cisco closed down 5.13 percent, at $17.39, in Wednesday's regular trading. In after-hours trading, they dropped another 6 percent to $16.35, after the release of the first-quarter report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); INTEL CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



230 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Does Not Support A Global Crisis Regulator

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ten days before the leaders of 20 countries assemble here for an emergency summit meeting on the financial crisis, the Bush administration discouraged suggestions that the gathering would create a new international market regulator with cross-border authority.
 ''This meeting is not about discarding market principles or about moving to a single global market regulator,'' said a senior administration official. ''There is very little support for that.'' He and other officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the agenda was diplomatically fraught. 
 The administration also said it did not expect regulation of hedge funds to be high on the agenda, even though France and other European countries were eager to renew their push for tighter control of those funds. 
 The reduced expectations may disappoint some Europeans, who hope to use this meeting to start what they view as a long overdue campaign to curb the excesses of the financial system. France in particular favors much closer international coordination of regulatory agencies, which some critics say could evolve into supra-national authorities.
 For all the talk of a latter-day Bretton Woods conference -- the 1944 meeting in New Hampshire that created many postwar financial institutions -- the administration suggested that this meeting would reinforce existing authorities rather than create new ones.
 The White House, officials said, does not support proposals for a giant increase in financing for the International Monetary Fund, which is lending money to Iceland, Hungary and Ukraine and recently set up a credit line for countries with liquidity shortages.
 Noting that the fund had $200 billion on hand to lend, another senior official said, ''The I.M.F. seems quite well-funded.''
 The summit meeting, scheduled for Nov. 14 and 15, comes during an impending transfer of power in Washington that has put both the White House and President-elect Obama in an awkward spot.
 Administration officials declined to say whether President Bush had invited Mr. Obama or any of his economic advisers. But they said they were talking to Mr. Obama's staff and welcomed its input.
 Last month, the White House press secretary, Dana Perino, said the administration did not want to ''box in'' the incoming president -- a concern that officials reiterated on Wednesday. ''This effort will obviously straddle the two administrations,'' said a senior official.
 The Obama campaign did not respond to e-mail inquiries about whether it had been issued an invitation. Mr. Obama welcomed the summit last month, but some experts said they expected him keep his distance to avoid being pinned down by commitments made by his predecessor.
 Despite its lame-duck status, the Bush administration said it still had hopes that the meeting would be a substantive exercise producing agreements on the causes of the financial crisis, a set of common principles to avoid future upheavals and possibly a handful of concrete measures.
 ''My impression is that there is much greater common ground than might appear at first blush,'' an official said.
 American and European officials both stress the need for more transparency and robust regulation in financial markets. But in interviews, French officials said they wanted to focus on specific types of securities like credit-default swaps, a gigantic market that is unregulated and played a role in the upheaval after the failure of Lehman Brothers.
 The French said they would push for more scrutiny of hedge funds, noting that the failure of a large fund could pose a systemic risk to the financial system, much like the collapse of a major bank.
 The administration, however, said hedge funds played a relatively small role in this crisis and should not be a big focus. ''It would be odd if hedge funds were at the top of the agenda,'' an official said.
 Mr. Bush vetoed a suggestion by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to hold the meeting in New York, which would have dramatized the role of Wall Street as the wellspring of the crisis. 
 They noted that Mr. Bush also pressed to expand the list of attendees beyond the Group of Eight leading industrialized countries. Among the other countries invited are Argentina, which has recently fallen into financial crisis; China; Turkey; and Saudi Arabia.
 To some extent, the Bush administration will have little influence over the outcome of the process. The summit meeting is planned as the first of several, and it is unlikely that the second will occur before Mr. Bush leaves office.
 Given the timing, some experts argue that the leaders should focus on issues that are more likely to win the backing of an Obama administration, like coordinating economic stimulus programs in the United States and Europe to cushion the blow of the recession.
 ''They're going to make a lot more progress if they talk about fiscal stimulus,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''You could see a consensus on that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (88%); ICELAND (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



231 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Pay Is Expected To Plummet

BYLINE: By BEN WHITE

 BODY:
The first clues are emerging that Wall Street pay will plummet this year -- but perhaps not enough to satisfy the financial industry's critics. 
 Bonuses, which soared to record heights in recent years, could drop by 20 to 35 percent across the industry, according to a private study to be released on Thursday. Bonuses for top executives could plunge by 70 percent. 
 But to some, those figures, from the consulting firm Johnson Associates, demand the question: Why should Wall Street executives get any bonuses at all? Banks' profits have plunged, and the government is spending hundreds of billions of dollars to shore up the industry and prevent its problems from dragging down the economy. 
 A report on Wednesday from the New York State Assembly said Wall Street bonuses could tumble 41.3 percent next year, which could further widen a budget deficit.
 The annual Johnson study, a closely watched analysis based on a survey of banks and money management firms, as well as on compensation figures disclosed in corporate filings, arrives as the industry is under growing political pressure to hold down pay. 
 Nine of the nation's biggest banks began handing over data on Wednesday to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York on how much they plan to pay in bonuses this year, as well as how much they paid in 2006 and 2007. Several of the banks have asked Mr. Cuomo for more time to provide the figures.
 In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo suggested that even 70 percent declines for top executives might not be enough, given a financial blowup that culminated in a $700 billion federal rescue for the industry. Many critics, Mr. Cuomo among them, contend that outsize pay encouraged bankers to take outsize risks in the first place. The crisis that followed led to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the emergency sales of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual and federal rescues for the insurance giant American International Group and the mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 ''Given this economic situation, how do you justify any performance bonus at all, is my initial point,'' Mr. Cuomo said. 
 Bankers and traders have been rewarded for taking risks that Wall Street clearly failed to manage. ''When you incentivize that type of behavior, you shouldn't be surprised when you find very risky, overly creative, short-term, highly leveraged products,'' he said.
 Mr. Cuomo added that he would closely examine the books of the nation's biggest banks to ensure that no government money went into bonus pools. Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who heads the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, has asked for similar pay information from banks. 
 Wall Street executives, even at banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which produced decent profits this year, are increasingly aware that large bonuses could set off an enormous public reaction. 
 Many executives and top bankers and traders gorged on huge bonuses during the boom years earlier this decade, in many cases on profits that later disappeared as the subprime mortgage meltdown bloomed into a crisis. Last year, financial groups paid out about $33.2 billion in bonuses, according to the New York State Comptroller.
 For instance, Richard S. Fuld, chief executive of Lehman Brothers, received about $34.4 million last year, though much of that was in stock that later became worthless. Mr. Fuld will leave as chief executive at the end of the year, with no bonus or severance payments, the firm said. 
 Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs's chief, received a package worth $68.5 million last year. 
 Nothing like that is expected this year, given the industrywide plunge in profits. 
 According to Johnson Associates, top executives are expected to be hardest hit, partly because their payouts are disclosed in corporate filings and executives want to avoid a public outcry.
 Alan Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates, said chief executives at banks were likely to get the bulk of any bonus in stock, a method that would probably trickle down. 
 ''Whatever you get paid is likely to be in paper,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''There is not going to be much cash.'' 
 That is not likely to please bank employees, who have watched their companies' shares plunge. 
 Among different areas of banking, the study suggests that fixed-income traders will see bonuses decline 40 to 45 percent. 
 Investment banks typically pay out about 50 percent of revenue as compensation, and year-end bonuses can account for a large percentage of employees' pay. In the past, fat bonuses led to big spending on lavish apartments and other luxuries, and leaner times are expected to hurt New York's economy.
 In previous lean years, Wall Street banks justified large payouts by arguing that top employees would flee for higher-paying jobs. But with tens of thousands of Wall Street jobs disappearing, that argument may no longer hold. ''Where are people going to go?'' one senior banking executive asked. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INSURANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); HENRY WAXMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



232 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: With G.O.P. Congressman's Loss, a Moderate Tradition Ends in New England

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The odd thing is it was the race two years earlier that on the surface seemed tougher. Battered over his support for an unpopular war, agitated and anguished, Representative Christopher Shays seemed so under siege and buffeted by conflicting impulses in 2006 that David Broder of The Washington Post wrote that ''the war has reduced this 60-year-old nine-term veteran of the House to a complete head case.''
 That time he managed to survive. This time, in an election defined more by his district's angst and sense of dread than his own, Mr. Shays, the Republicans' leading escape artist, ran out of rope. So after 10 terms in Congress, and after holding on as the last Republican representative from New England, Mr. Shays, 63, was back in Washington on Wednesday. He had 15 days to move out of his office, and plenty of time to ponder the wreckage of the Republican brand, particularly in the Northeast. 
 ''I thought I could win,'' he said via cellphone after being defeated, 51 to 48 percent, by a political newcomer, Jim Himes, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker who is an executive with a nonprofit agency. ''But I always knew I could lose, and I think I had this intuition that I would be killed on the battlefield.
 ''I didn't want to retire and be handed some flowers.''
 Mr. Shays would be the first to affirm that losing an election isn't like losing a life. And it's perhaps an unfortunate metaphor at a time when our semi-forgotten wars take their daily toll. Still, when Mr. Shays was finally sent packing, it had the feel of one of the final battles of a long, long war.
 When he went to Congress in 1987, he was one of nine Republican representatives from the six New England states. Now there are none. He inherited a seat long held by independent-minded Republicans like Lowell P. Weicker Jr. And he was part of a tradition of Northeastern moderates like Clifford P. Case of New Jersey and Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York and, later, Christie Whitman of New Jersey. Mr. Shays, who broke with Republicans over the years on issues like Bill Clinton's impeachment, the environment and campaign finance reform, has often been a lonely figure in a party whose leaders and/or would-be leaders have been in the vein of George W. Bush, Tom DeLay and, perhaps, Sarah Palin. 
 Which is another reason why 2006 felt more like a race in which he could influence his destiny, and this election one where he just got washed away by the flood. On Tuesday, Mr. Shays ran as well or better than he did in 2006 in much of the district, but he was swamped by a huge tide of new Democratic voters and by Mr. Himes's overwhelming victory in Bridgeport, the district's largest city. Barack Obama recorded a commercial for Mr. Himes that was widely broadcast.
 Mr. Shays, who once said Republicans were ''in danger of becoming a theocracy,'' sees much to second-guess about the party's evolution. He tends to focus not on the biggest catastrophes like the war and the economy, but rather on the many missteps along the way that reflect a party that had lost its direction -- like Mr. DeLay's successful push in 2005 for Congress to ask the federal courts to intervene in the case of Terri Schiavo, a brain-damaged woman who had been kept alive for more than a decade by a feeding tube.
 ''I had a fund-raiser in Westport and I asked, 'How many of you think we should take this out of state court and into a federal one?' And not one person raised their hand,'' he said. ''Republicans tend to think you leave those things to the states and judicial activism in the federal courts is an anathema.''
 He also cited Hurricane Katrina. ''I think people thought the president was competent but arrogant, and after Katrina they said, 'Oh my God, they're incompetent, and they're still arrogant,' '' he said.
 Mr. Shays said the president and Karl Rove needed a vision and a cause -- like achieving energy independence -- beyond finding ways to get 50 percent of the vote plus one.
 And he said the party desperately needed to broaden its base at a time when Mr. Obama was able to mobilize blacks and tap into the emerging demographics of the country. 
 ''We're not a diverse party,'' he said. ''I don't see how we move forward as a party if we don't find a way to appeal to all regions and all races.''
 Some Democrats say Mr. Shays has been more maverick in style than substance, that on the big issues of the times -- like the war and government deregulation -- he's been with his party more often than not. He signed on early to Newt Gingrich's Contract With America, and Mr. Gingrich campaigned for him this year. Mr. Shays said he has never considered switching parties.
 Still, it's not hard to look at the rise of the social conservatives and see why Northeastern Republicans are disappearing one by one.
 ''I don't see us winning with social conservatism,'' he said. ''The party will not be rebuilt without moderates being a part of it.''
 As for his race, there's not much second-guessing, either by Mr. Shays or by the Democrats.
 ''His time was up, and Himes just pushed him over the edge,'' said Roy Occhiogrosso, a Democratic consultant. ''He ran a good campaign, but what he was selling, people weren't buying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After conceding on Tuesday night, Representative Christopher Shays comforted his daughter, Jeramy, as his wife, Betsi, spoke to supporters in Norwalk, Conn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A volunteer, Michael Hahn, of Connecticut Young Republicans, helped clean up the party's campaign headquarters in Fairfield on Wednesday. It also served as a satellite office for Mr. Shays.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIM HIMES (57%); SARAH PALIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



233 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: MINNESOTA: Obama

 BODY:
The bitterly contested Senate race between the Republican incumbent, Norm Coleman, and his Democratic challenger, Al Franken, the political humorist and former ''Saturday Night Live'' cast member, is not over yet. 
 The number of votes separating them is so tiny -- Mr. Coleman leads by fewer than 500 out of nearly 2.9 million cast -- that the state rule for an automatic recount was set off. State officials say a recount will not begin until mid-November and could take weeks. Each ballot will be inspected manually.
 The race had been unremittingly negative, with Mr. Coleman hitting Mr. Franken's decades of edgy humor and holding a lead until October, when the national financial crisis reshaped races around the country. An independent candidate, Dean Barkley, drew 15 percent of the vote. The other two candidates, James Niemackl of the conservative Constitution Party and the Libertarian Charles Aldrich, garnered far more votes than the margin separating the leaders. 
 In other races, the Republican incumbent in the Sixth District, Representative Michele Bachmann, overcame a challenge from the Democrat Elwyn Tinklenberg. Her lead evaporated after an embarrassing Oct. 17 appearance on the MSNBC program ''Hardball'' in which she said that Barack Obama ''may have anti-American views.'' As her fortunes dipped, Mr. Tinklenberg's rose, with about $1 million in contributions from around the nation. 
 In the Third District, State Representative Erik Paulsen, a Republican, defeated Ashwin Madia, a Democratic lawyer whose parents came to the United States from India and who served with the Marines in Iraq. The seat is being vacated by Jim Ramstad, a Republican. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain ............ 1,275,653 44% 100% reporting Obama ............ 1,573,245 54% Other .................... 52,121 2% SENATE Coleman (R) ... 1,211,644 42% 100% reporting Franken (D) .... 1,211,167 42% Barkley (I) ........ 437,382 15% Other .................... 22,822 1% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

PERSON: AL FRANKEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NORM COLEMAN (90%); JIM RAMSTAD (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



234 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Obama Makes Historic Inroads in South

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. 

 BODY:
The race for North Carolina's electoral votes is still too close to call. But if Senator Barack Obama, who is ahead by a nostril, is declared the winner, he will be able to claim a remarkable set of victories in three former Confederate states, where just a half century ago black people were systematically denied even the opportunity to vote, much less run for president.
 ''His making inroads in the South was important symbolically and historically, and also important in terms of his governance,'' said Ferrel Guillory, a political science professor at the University of North Carolina. ''It's important that the nation's first black president has support in states that within my lifetime practiced legal segregation, and that he won support in these states, not only among black Americans but among a strong plurality of white Americans.'' 
 Exit polls showed Mr. Obama winning 35 percent of the white vote in North Carolina, 42 percent in Florida and 39 percent in Virginia. Blacks supported him at higher rates than for John Kerry in 2004. North Carolina exit polls showed Mr. Obama with 100 percent of the vote of black women. 
 Political analysts attributed his victories in the South to an effective ground operation and an increase in non-Southerners and younger, educated workers. They also credited a high black turnout, which went almost wholly for Mr. Obama and dissatisfaction with President Bush, which pushed many independent voters into the Obama column.
 What was less certain, they said, was whether Mr. Obama's gains would have staying power in the South. The African-Americans and first-time voters who turned out for this historic election may not return to the polls, they said, and the Bush administration will no longer be a spur.
 ''The tide is gone, and the next question is whether he's a successful president or not,'' said Carter Wrenn, a Republican strategist in Raleigh. ''If he is, he'll be fine, and if he's not the gains will be wiped out.''
 Steven Greene, a political scientist at North Carolina State University, said people had invested so much hope in Mr. Obama that there would inevitably be disappointment. But Mr. Greene predicted that Mr. Obama's support among young people augured well for the Democrats' future. 
 On the North Carolina electoral map, Mr. Obama's support took a different shape from Bill Clinton's near-victory there in 1992 or the gains of Kay Hagan, the Democrat who decisively beat Senator Elizabeth Dole on Tuesday, perhaps reflecting the importance of race to some voters. Both Mr. Clinton and Ms. Hagan won conservative Democratic counties in the mostly white Appalachian region in the western part of the state, while Mr. Obama lost those counties, making up the losses in urban and suburban counties.
 Wake County, which includes Raleigh, went narrowly for Mr. Clinton in 1992, rejected him in 1996, and voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 and 2004. On Tuesday, Wake County went for Mr. Obama by a whopping 16 percentage points. 
 Many of his supporters here were recent transplants like Nichole Krist, 33, who is from Michigan but has lived in Raleigh for a year and works as a geographic information systems analyst. ''People are really freaked out right now'' about the economy, she said. ''Like me, I've been spoiled all my life, and now I'm an adult and it affects me directly.''
 Despite the electoral history here, several black voters insisted they were not surprised by Mr. Obama's win. ''It went exactly the way I thought it would go,'' said Larry Pulley, a barber in downtown Raleigh.
 Nationally, exit polling showed that Mr. Obama had the lead among young voters, with 66 percent of voters under 30, but in North Carolina he dominated in that category, winning 74 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SUBURBS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KAY HAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



235 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: With Victory in Hand, Obama Aides Say Task Now Is to Temper High Expectations

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama has begun an effort to tamp down what his aides fear are unusually high expectations among his supporters, and will remind Americans regularly throughout the transition that the nation's challenges are substantial and will take time to address.
Mr. Obama's advisers said they were startled, if gratified, by the jubilation that greeted the news of Mr. Obama's victory in much of the United States and abroad. But while the energy of his supporters could be a tremendous political asset as Mr. Obama works to enact his agenda after taking office in January, his aides said they were looking to temper hopes that he would be able to solve the nation's problems or fully reverse Bush administration policies quickly and easily, especially given the prospect of a deep and long-lasting recession. 
''We have talked about this,'' said Robert Gibbs, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''It's important that everybody understands that this is not going to happen overnight. There has to be a realistic expectation of what can happen and how quickly.''
Joel Benenson, Mr. Obama's campaign pollster, said he thought that the public appreciated the problems that the president-elect was facing and would judge him against that backdrop.
''I don't think they view him as a miracle worker who in two months is going to solve an economic crisis,'' Mr. Benenson said. ''It is a matter of being straightforward with people about what we are going to achieve and how fast it's going to take.''
Mr. Obama will hit that theme at a news conference he is expected to hold over the coming days, and in most of his public appearances from here on out, aides said. They said they would discourage the traditional yardstick for measuring the accomplishments of a new president -- the first 100 days. Mr. Obama told an interviewer toward the end of his campaign that it was more appropriate to talk about the first 1,000 days.
Mr. Obama's advisers said that the tone of his victory speech on Tuesday night -- sober and devoid of the arm-pumping that would typically be in an address of that sort -- reflected his awareness of these circumstances. Mr. Obama warned that the promises that led Americans to embrace his candidacy -- be they as specific as expanding health care or as broad as changing the tone of Washington -- might take as long a term to carry out.
The caution reflected the inevitable perils of taking control of the White House at such a difficult time, particularly after a campaign that stirred so much hope among voters. The economic crisis will certainly complicate Mr. Obama's more ambitious domestic efforts like broadening health care coverage and cutting taxes for most Americans. His call for a change in the tone in Washington would require a sharp shift in history. Even with substantial Democratic majorities in the Senate and the House, passing major legislation could still be time-consuming for Mr. Obama and require compromises.
Mr. Gibbs said one of the main challenges for Mr. Obama was tamping down expectations a bit without making anyone think he was moving away from the promises of his campaign.
''The flip side of this -- and I want to make sure this is also clear -- we also believe that it is paramount to begin doing everything we said we would do in the campaign,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''We know expectations are high. But disappointment if we didn't try to do the things that we said we were going to do would be far, far greater than anything else. People went to the polls and elected Barack Obama because they believed the fact not only that he could do what he said, but that he would try to do what he said.''
The challenge facing Mr. Obama today is similar to one that faced Bill Clinton in 1992, the last time a president arrived in Washington with anything approaching the level of excitement Mr. Obama's election set off around the country.
As Election Day approached in 1992, it was apparent from the crowds that Mr. Clinton drew, in their size and their faces, that his supporters expected big things after a campaign in which Mr. Clinton had promised a dramatic revamping in health care coverage and programs for the poor. At the time, a senior adviser who was traveling with him, Paul Begala, warned Mr. Clinton to add some caveats to his speeches, to avoid voter letdown should it take time to accomplish things as president.
''I remember talking about this to him in the closing days of the campaign,'' Mr. Begala said. ''And he started saying, 'We didn't get into this overnight and we're not going to get out of it overnight.' ''
''So I remember him talking about it and doing it -- and it didn't have any effect on the citizens,'' Mr. Begala said. That was one reason, he said, that Democrats lost control of Congress two years later.
A nearly 500-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Wednesday was a reminder that Mr. Obama's election did not bring the financial crisis to a close, and that the economic downturn could limit his ability to pursue his full agenda right off the bat by demanding an immediate focus on trying to pull the nation out of recession. And, even if Americans are ready to bear with Mr. Obama as he pursues policy proposals, they may not as readily accept the sort of compromise that legislative accomplishment often requires.
With the Democrats holding a solid but not commanding majority in the Senate after the vote on Tuesday, his agenda will probably require some modicum of horse trading for Republican support. Further complicating the picture, Mr. Obama's winning coalition includes new voters who will be watching him closely but may not have patience for the deliberative give and take that accomplishment in Washington often demands.
''He's got to lower some expectations, indicate the limits he's confronting,'' said Leon Panetta, a former chief of staff to Mr. Clinton. ''He's got a story to tell about how he's confronting the worst crisis that any president has faced in modern history, and I think he can make clear that he's going to try to deal with these problems one at a time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Visitors offered wishes to Barack Obama at a wall built Wednesday near the Lincoln Memorial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MITCH DUMKE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



236 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: KANSAS: McCain

 BODY:
One of the few bright spots for the national Republican Party was the Second District of Kansas, where the state's treasurer, Lynn Jenkins, ousted Representative Nancy Boyda, a freshman Democrat from Topeka. 
 Ms. Jenkins said her credentials as a certified public accountant would help in the current economic crisis. 
 The Republican Party had identified Mrs. Boyda as one of the most vulnerable House Democrats. She rarely mentioned the fact that she was a Democrat. She did not attend the Democratic National Convention and urged the national party to ''stay out of my race.''
 Senator Barack Obama's mother and grandmother were from Kansas, but Senator John McCain easily won the state. Likewise, Senator Pat Roberts, a Republican, coasted to victory in his bid for a third term in the Senate.
 Mr. Roberts, known for his dry wit and his efforts on behalf of farmers, has served 16 years in the House and 12 in the Senate. He raised far more money than his Democratic opponent, Jim Slattery, a former congressman. Kansas has not elected a Democrat to the Senate since the Great Depression.
 In the Third Congressional District, in the Kansas City area, Representative Dennis Moore, a five-term Democrat, defeated Nick Jordan, a Republican state senator. Mr. Moore is a member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition in the House.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain .............. 683,421 57% 99% reporting Obama ............... 498,042 41% Other .................... 20,798 2% SENATE Roberts (R) ...... 710,088 60% 99% reporting Slattery (D) ...... 428,069 36% Other .................... 40,798 4% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%)

PERSON: LYNN JENKINS (90%); NANCY E BOYDA (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); PAT ROBERTS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); DENNIS MOORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOPEKA, KS, USA (73%) KANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



237 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: NORTH DAKOTA: McCain

 BODY:
North Dakota re-elected its governor, John Hoeven, by a landslide. Mr. Hoeven, a two-term Republican, never seemed to break a sweat in beating Tim Mathern by 74 percent to 24 percent. 
 In winning a third four-year term, Mr. Hoeven, 51, will be the first North Dakota governor to serve more than eight years. Mr. Mathern, 58, has been a state senator for more than two decades.
 The state's economy is strong, with a budget surplus due in no small part to booming oil and gas production. The surplus contributed to Mr. Hoeven's popularity among North Dakotans, who appear to have been insulated from the kind of economic turmoil that brought down incumbents in other states.
 Mr. Mathern argued that Mr. Hoeven was sitting on the state's budget surplus when it should be used to repair infrastructure and reduce taxes.
 Voters also favored Senator John McCain's candidacy for president. And in the race for the state's seat in the House of Representatives, the incumbent, Earl Pomeroy, a Democrat, overwhelmingly defeated his Republican challenger, Duane Sand. 
 Voters also defeated a measure that would have cut the state income tax sharply, and another that would have created a trust fund for surplus oil revenues. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain .............. 168,523 53% 100% reporting Obama ................ 141,113 45% Other ...................... 6,351 2% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

PERSON: JOHN HOEVEN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); EARL POMEROY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



238 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: NEVADA: Obama

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama won this swing state, which has seen rapid population growth, demographic shifts and a rapidly deflating real estate market. President Bush won the state in 2004. 
 Dina Titus, a Democratic state senator and a political science professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, beat the incumbent three-term Republican, Jon Porter, in the Third Congressional District, where Democrats have come to outnumber Republicans since the last election.
 That race included charges of negative advertising and recriminations over the economy and the Wall Street bailout package, which Ms. Titus opposed and Mr. Porter supported. Ms. Titus, who lost in the governor's race in 2006 and ran against Mr. Porter when another candidate dropped out, worked more actively to court rural voters. She won with 47 percent of the vote, compared with 42 percent for Mr. Porter. 
 In the State Legislature, control of the Senate shifted to Democrats, who now have a 12 to 9 advantage, reversing the Republicans' 11 to 10 edge. Democrats already controlled the House.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain ............... 411,988 43% 100% reporting Obama ............... 531,884 55% Other .................... 21,254 2% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); BAILOUTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%)

PERSON: DINA TITUS (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JON C PORTER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



239 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Automakers And Union Seek Help From Pelosi

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and BILL VLASIC; Matthew L. Wald reported from Washington and Bill Vlasic from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chief executives of Detroit's Big Three automakers and the president of the United Automobile Workers union are scheduled to meet Thursday with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi about emergency financial aid for the companies, according to three people with knowledge of the plans. 
 The meeting would come just hours after the Energy Department said late Wednesday that the auto companies would be able to apply as soon as next week for $25 billion in low-interest loans to develop more fuel-efficient vehicles. But that loan program seemed unlikely to meet their needs, and some of the money could go to Asian carmakers with plants in this country.
 The meeting with Mrs. Pelosi will be attended by Rick Wagoner, chairman of General Motors; Alan R. Mulally, chief executive of the Ford Motor Company; Robert L. Nardelli, chairman of Chrysler; and Ron Gettelfinger, president of the autoworkers. Legislators from states with heavy automotive employment are likely to be involved too. 
 The Energy Department said Wednesday that it had rushed through rules on how to process loan applications and was prepared to begin evaluating them next week. 
 But the money could only be used for expenses incurred after the application was filed, and not for general expenses or for expenses incurred so far.
 Still, the first reaction of the automakers was positive. A spokesman for General Motors, Greg Martin, said G.M. was ''very pleased'' by the accelerated release of the loans. 
 The Energy Department usually takes more than a year to write rules; Congress gave it 60 days but it completed the work in about 30. The program, hurriedly passed by Congress as part of the budget for the fiscal year that began on Oct. 1, was given to the Energy Department because it is intended to finance the development of high-mileage car models or components for them. 
 Asked about whether the program would satisfy the automakers' needs, David Hill, the department's general counsel, said in a conference call with reporters that ''we've done the best we can,'' within the constraints of the legislation. 
 Processing a loan application would ordinarily take months, because an environmental evaluation is required. But if the White House declared an emergency, department officials said, some money could flow by the end of this year. The money would be doled out in ''progress payments,'' as expenses where incurred, the officials said, in a teleconference with reporters Wednesday evening. Under the ground rules laid out by the Energy Department, most of the officials could not be quoted by name. 
 Another complication is that before it can lend money, the Energy Department must conclude that the borrower has assets that exceed its liabilities, and is likely to be able to repay the principal and interest. 
 The rate would be at the Treasury's cost of funds, which Energy Department officials said was about 4 percent a year. The term of the loan would be the shorter of 25 years or the life of the improvement being financed. It was not immediately clear if that meant the expected lifetime of a new car model.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (90%); BOB NARDELLI (58%); ALAN MULALLY (58%); RICK WAGONER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



240 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Bush Hails Stride 'Toward a More Perfect Union'

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush said Wednesday morning that he had called Barack Obama last night to congratulate him on his historic election as the nation's first black president.
 In a brief appearance in the White House Rose Garden, Mr. Bush said American voters in large numbers had ''showed a watching world the vitality of America's democracy and the strides we have made toward a more perfect union.'' 
 Mr. Bush said, ''All Americans can be proud of the history that was made yesterday.'' He called Mr. Obama's life ''a triumph of the American story, a testament to hard work, optimism, and faith in the enduring promise of our nation.''
 ''Many of our citizens thought they would never live to see that day,'' he said.
 The president also said he had spoken last night to Senator John McCain to congratulate him on what Mr. Bush called ''a determined campaign.''
 ''The American people will always be grateful for the lifetime of service John McCain has devoted to this nation,'' Mr. Bush said, adding he felt certain the Arizona senator would ''continue to make tremendous contributions.''
 The president, who will hand over power to Mr. Obama on Jan. 20 in what is likely to be one of the most widely watched inaugurations ever, promised to do everything possible to ensure a smooth transition.
 ''During this time of transition, I will keep the president-elect fully informed of important decisions,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Some of those will come with little delay. On Nov. 15, Mr. Bush will be the host of an international summit on the global financial crisis. While Mr. Obama is not expected to take part personally, one of his first cabinet nominations is expected to be that of a Treasury secretary.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also paid tribute on Wednesday to Mr. Obama's historical accomplishment. 
 ''As an African-American, I'm especially proud,'' she said in remarks at the State Department, where she also vowed to cooperate fully in the transition to a Democratic administration. ''This is a country that's been through a long journey in terms of overcoming wounds and making race not the factor in our lives,'' she said.
 Ms. Rice's predecessor, Colin Powell, who endorsed Mr. Obama, said on CNN, ''I'm very, very proud to have a new American president, who also happens to be an African-American.''
 Mr. Bush said he had invited Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, to come to the White House to spend time with him and the First Lady. ''Laura and I are looking forward to welcoming them as soon as possible,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



241 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: Election Unleashes a Flood of Hope Worldwide

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Alexei Barrionuevo contributed reporting from Buenos Aires, Basil Katz, Susanne Fowler, David Jolly and Katrin Bennhold from Paris, Alissa Rubin from Forward Operating Base Falcon in Iraq, Michael Slackman from Dubai, Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, Simon Romero from Caracas, Norimitsu Onishi from Tokyo, Seth Mydans and Thomas Fuller from Bangkok, Sam Dagher and The New York Times bureau from Baghdad, Rachel Donadio and Elisabetta Povoledo from Rome, Sarah Lyall from London, Barry Bearak and Celia W. Dugger from Johannesburg, Somini Sengupta from New Delhi, Peter Gelling from Jakarta, Sabrina Tavernise from Istanbul, Sophia Kishkovsky from Moscow, Carlos H. Conde from Manila, Abdul Waheed Wafa from Kabul, Meraiah Foley from Sydney, Nicholas Kulish from Berlin, Victoria Burnett from Madrid, Nazila Fathi from Tehran and Neil MacFarquhar from New York.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
From the front lines of Iraq to more genteel spots like Harry's Bar in Paris, the election of Barack Obama unlocked a floodgate of hope that a new American leader will redeem promises of change, rewrite the political script and, perhaps as important as anything else, provide a kind of leadership that will erase the bitterness of the Bush years.
 Whether it was because of Mr. Obama's youth, his race, his message or his manner, some European leaders abandoned diplomatic niceties to compete for extravagance in their praise, while others outside the United States -- fascinated by an election that had been scrutinized around the globe -- reached for their most telling comparisons.
 ''There is the feeling that for the first time since Kennedy, America has a different kind of leader,'' said Alejandro Saks, an Argentine script writer in Buenos Aires. Or, as Ersin Kalaycioglu, a professor of political science in Istanbul, put it, ''The U.S. needs a facelift and he's the one who can give it.'' 
 There were some glaring departures from the feel-good mood. One in particular illustrated the challenges that will test the president-elect: President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia chose the day to lambaste the United States and threaten new missile deployments.
 The final moments of the election were covered in obsessive detail far from America. In Australia, radio stations interrupted their shows to broadcast the Obama acceptance speech. In Berlin, newspapers printed special editions. 
 Perhaps one of the most poignant accolades came from Nelson Mandela, South Africa's former president, who said in a letter to Mr. Obama: ''Your victory has demonstrated that no person anywhere in the world should not dare to dream of wanting to change the world for a better place.''
 Significantly, though, among American troops in Iraq, the hope seemed tinged with skepticism that change in the White House would not automatically mean change in American doctrines that have meant deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 ''It's not like even if Obama is elected we'll up and leave,'' said Specialist James Real, 31, of Butte, Montana, as soldiers watched the returns on television at Forward Operating Base Falcon in Iraq. 
 Indeed, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said Iraq itself did not ''expect that much change in the American policies toward Iraq. Any changes won't be made in one night.''
 In Afghanistan, where American troops are also deployed in an increasingly bitter war, the election brought a rebuke . 
 ''Our demand is to have no civilian casualties in Afghanistan. The fight against terrorism cannot be won by the bombardment of our villages,'' said President Hamid Karzai, referring to a string of coalition airstrikes that have caused civilian casualties.
 For many outsiders, Mr. Obama's victory raised expectations that a new administration would seek new relationships across the globe. 
 ''I think he can restore the image of America around the world, especially after Bush got us into two wars,'' said David Charlot, 28, a lawyer with French and American citizenship who was among a throng of expatriate revelers outside Harry's Bar in Paris.
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, said something on similar lines. ''Your election raises in France, in Europe, and elsewhere in the world, an immense hope,'' he said in a message that called Mr. Obama's victory ''brilliant'' and his campaign ''exceptional.'' Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called his victory ''historic'' and invited Mr. Obama to return to Berlin, where he addressed a huge rally during his campaign.
 Even in lands whose leaders are no friends of Washington -- such as Venezuela and Iran -- the election outcome cut through official propaganda to touch some people. 
 ''It's kind of nice to feel good about the United States again,'' said Armando Diaz, 24, a bookkeeper in Caracas, Venezuela, where Enrique Cisneros, a storekeeper summed it up like this: ''A few hours ago, the world felt like a different place.'' In Iran, too, some said the American example should persuade politicians closer to home to adopt similar political ways.
 ''His election can be a lesson for the dictators of the Middle East,'' said Badr-al-sadat Mofidi, the deputy editor of the daily Kargozaran newspaper. Some in Iran focused on their hopes for a change in American attitudes towards their country. ''The nightmare of war with the United States will fade with Obama's election,'' said Nehmat Ahmadi, a lawyer.
 Indeed, for many who had watched this campaign from afar, there was a sense that the election was not just an American affair but something that touched people around the world, whatever their origin. ''I want Obama to win with 99 percent, like Saddam Hussein,'' said Hanin Abu Ayash, who works at a television station in Dubai and monitored early returns on his computer. ''I swear if he doesn't win, I'm going to take it personally.''
 In Berlin, Anna Lemme, a 29-year-old architect, said she did not usually hurry to catch the news first thing in the morning. ''But this morning I jumped to the radio first thing at 5 a.m.,'' she said. 
 There was little doubt that for some, Mr. Obama's skin color made his victory all the more exhilarating. 
 ''The United States is choosing a black man as its president. Maybe we can share a bit in this happiness,'' Mr. Cisneros said in Caracas. 
 The Afghan president, Mr. Karzai, said the election had shown the American people overcoming distinctions ''of race and color while electing their president'' and thereby helping to bring ''the same values to the rest of the world sooner or later.''
 For many in Africa -- and in Kenya in particular -- his election evoked a deepening of pride. As President Mwai Kibaki said in a message to Mr. Obama, ''your victory is not only an inspiration to millions of people all over the world, but it has special resonance with us here in Kenya'' -- the birthplace of Mr. Obama's father and paternal grandparents.
 That sense of association may also encourage some to believe that Mr. Obama will give Africa special attention. ''We express the hope that poverty and underdevelopment in Africa, which remains a challenge for humanity, will indeed continue to receive a greater attention of the focus of the new administration,'' said Kgalema Motlanthe, the South African president.
 Many outside Africa competed for his attention, too. 
 In a statement, the 27-nation European Union said it saw ''the promise of a reinforced trans-Atlantic relationship'' in Mr. Obama's election. Even big business joined in.
 ''From a business perspective, I'm very happy that the economic issue was at the top of the agenda in the campaign,'' said Lakshmi Mittal, the head of the world's biggest steel-maker, ''and we're very positive that we'll see more measures to address the economic crisis with his election.''
 On momentous occasions, politicians reach for big words. The French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, for instance, said that ''American democracy has just lived through a marvelous moment, one of those major turning points that periodically demonstrates its vitality, its belief in the future and its trust in the values on which it was founded over two centuries.''
 In Parliament in London on Wednesday, members of Britain's three major political parties lavished praise on Mr. Obama. Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that Mr. Obama had run ''an inspirational campaign, energizing politics with progressive values and his vision for the future.'' 
 Mr. Brown mentioned several times that he planned to work closely with the new administration, said he had spoken to Mr. Obama ''on many occasions,'' called him a ''true friend of Britain'' and said: ''I know Barack Obama and we share many values.''
 But politicians also peer through the prism of self-interest.
 In South Korea, some pondered the destiny of a free-trade agreement negotiated by the Bush administration and criticized by Mr. Obama. Lee Hae-min, South Korea's top trade negotiator, warned that any change in the deal could undermine South Korea's support for the deal and ''open a Pandora's box''.
 In the Middle East, the focus of much tension that has drawn in successive American administrations, Saeb Erakat, an aide to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, urged Mr. Obama to transform the proposal for a two-state solution in the Palestine-Israel conflict ''to a realistic track immediately.''
 At the Vatican, a statement urged Mr. Obama to show ''respect of human life'' and expressed the hope that ''God should illuminate the way'' for him in his ''great responsibility.''
 Some saw a chance to patch up old feuds.
 Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who displeased Washington when he withdrew Spain's troops from Iraq in 2004, said Mr. Obama's victory ''demonstrated the vitality of this great country, and of democracy and the unstoppable force of the ballot to bring about change.'' 
 ''I am confident this opens a horizon of promise for relations between the United States and Spain,'' he told a press conference in Madrid. 
 But even in the moment of triumph, some in Europe questioned whether Mr. Obama would really make a break with his George W. Bush, the least popular American president among Europeans in recent history. 
 ''When Obama takes office on January 20,'' the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said in an editorial, ''we will see whether the Europeans -- and especially the Germans -- really just had a problem with Bush's presidency or with America itself.''
 Others were less cynical. ''The margin of victory was emphatic and, whatever else follows, today the world changed,'' said an editorial in The Times of London, and The Guardian newspaper proclaimed: ''They did it. They really did it. So often crudely caricatured by others, the American people yesterday stood in they eye of history and made an emphatic choice for change for themselves and the world.''
 That was not a universal view in Moscow where one analyst, Mikhail Delyagin, compared Mr. Obama to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who is often blamed in Russia for destroying the Soviet Union. 
 ''Not having large-scale management experience, he has greater chances to disorganize America, to destabilize America, out of the very best intentions, as Gorbachev once did.'' 
 But the supporters generally outnumbered the skeptics.. ''We were all hoping that he would win,'' said Carla Saggioro, a retired architect in Rome. ''And the fact that he did with such a large margin is a sign of real change -- at least let's hope so.''
 The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, called Mr. Obama's election a ''historic opportunity'' for a stronger working relationship with the United States. 
 ''He values highly the resolution of all the conflict issues through dialogue,'' Mr. Ban said. ''He has expressed publicly that he is willing to meet anybody, any country, so that will provide good opportunity not only for the United States, but also the United Nations as a whole to resolve all issues through dialogue.''
 Mr. Ban said he had met Mr. Obama by chance last year on a plane flight. ''He was very engaging and he knew a lot about the United Nations,'' Mr. Ban said, ''and I was very much encouraged.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: HARRY'S BAR LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HOPE WORLDWIDE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (72%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (54%) MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); FRANCE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



242 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Four Republicans Whom Bloomberg Backed for State Senate Are Rejected at Polls

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
In the bitter fight for control of the New York State Senate, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg bet big on the Republican Party. Now he may pay the price.
 Victories on Tuesday that handed the Democrats their first Senate majority in decades could stymie Mr. Bloomberg's agenda in Albany, where he has long struggled to win allies, some lawmakers and political consultants said in interviews. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent, publicly injected himself into the Republicans' effort to keep control of the Senate this year, contributing $500,000 to the party and endorsing six of its candidates. But four of the six lost, dealing the mayor a political blow as he gears up for his own re-election race next year. 
 ''The Senate Democrats may not be too happy with him,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a Harlem Democrat. ''This time,'' he added, ''Bloomberg lost.''
 Democratic control of the Senate was not yet assured on Wednesday because four dissident Democrats would not commit themselves to supporting a member of their party as majority leader. But if the party can patch up the squabble, Mr. Bloomberg could find himself at a disadvantage just as he is likely to need the Legislature more than ever, to help cope with a souring city economy.
 Bruce N. Gyory, a political consultant who has worked for Gov. David A. Paterson and former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, said that Mr. Bloomberg had ''doubled down on Republicans'' at a time when many New Yorkers were leaning toward Democrats. 
 Most lawmakers had assumed Mr. Bloomberg would leave office next year under the city's term limits law. But now that he has won a revision of the city's election laws allowing him to seek a third term, he may well remain in office through 2013, making support from Albany all the more vital.
 Nevertheless, in interviews on Wednesday, several Democratic lawmakers said they would probably not hold the mayor's political support for Republicans against him or the people of New York City -- no matter how much it irritated them. 
 ''It's all going to get thrust aside when we have to look at an agenda that keeps New York City moving forward,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, asked Wednesday about the Republican losses in the Senate, said: ''These aren't personal things. If you make it personal, you shouldn't be in government.'' 
 Speaking of the losing candidates he endorsed, the mayor said, ''I think society is worse off for not having them.''
 The four Republicans who were defeated are Liz Feld of Westchester and Barbara Donno of Nassau County, both challengers, and two incumbents, Caesar Trunzo of Suffolk County and Serphin R. Maltese of Queens.
 A spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, Stu Loeser, said that ''the mayor has been very successful in getting legislators from upstate to focus on New York City's needs, even from districts hundreds of miles away.'' 
 ''It follows,'' Mr. Loeser added, ''that he'll be even more successful at getting legislators who themselves are elected by New York City voters to deliver on our needs.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg endorsed a variety of candidates around the New York area this year, with mixed results. In the Democratic primary in September, he endorsed several notable winners, including Daniel L. Squadron, who defeated State Senator Martin Connor, a 30-year veteran of Albany and former Senate minority leader. 
 And in the general election, his support of a Republican, Senator Kemp Hannon of Nassau County, paid off, as Mr. Hannon defeated a Democratic challenger, Kristen McElroy. Another Republican backed by Mr. Bloomberg, Senator Frank Padavan, had a very slim margin in a tight race against a Democrat, Jim Gennaro, that is still too close to call. Mr. Padavan represents parts of Queens, Nassau County and the Bronx.
 But elsewhere in the region, Mr. Bloomberg's choices were less successful at the polls. 
 Mr. Bloomberg backed a Republican, Representative Christopher Shays, in Connecticut, attending a fund-raiser for him and endorsing him in a campaign commercial. On Tuesday, Mr. Shays, a 10-term incumbent, lost by a wide margin to a Democrat, Jim Himes.
 Mr. Bloomberg endorsed Dennis Shulman, a Democrat who failed to beat the incumbent, Representative Scott Garrett, in a New Jersey Congressional race.
 Some people close to Mr. Bloomberg said that his endorsements were not based on the probability of victory but on the candidates' track records and the mayor's sense of personal loyalty.
 That may help explain, they said, why Mr. Bloomberg supported some New York Senate Republicans despite a resurgent Democratic Party led by Senator Barack Obama. 
 ''He is a very loyal person,'' said City Councilman Simcha Felder, who received Mr. Bloomberg's endorsement in a State Senate primary that he lost. Mr. Bloomberg, he said, ''does not forget people who are helpful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator Serphin R. Maltese, whom Mayor Bloomberg supported, was defeated by a Democratic challenger.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (76%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



243 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: For Pollsters, the Racial Effect That Wasn't

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and DALIA SUSSMAN

 BODY:
All the ominous predictions, all the fretting about hidden votes and closeted racists frustrating a victory for the nation's first African-American president came down to this: the so-called Bradley effect did not exist.
People did not lie -- to pollsters or to themselves -- about whether they would vote for a black man. The polls, national and statewide, generally predicted the results with accuracy. 
''The unambiguous answer is that there was no Bradley effect,'' said Mark Blumenthal, the editor and publisher of Pollster.com, a Web site that publishes and analyzes poll results.
A different question, of course, is whether race was a factor in how people voted, and for a small group of voters -- 19 percent -- it was, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls. But race turned out to be less of an issue than predicted even three months ago, when twice that percentage in a CNN poll said it would be at least a small factor in their vote.
Senator John McCain won the 17 percent of white voters who said race had affected their vote, according to the exit polls. But, helped by black voters, Senator Barack Obama's margin of victory was about the same among voters who said race had been a factor as it was among those who said it had not been at all.
''There's no point in continuing that discussion anymore,'' said Jon A. Krosnick, a professor of psychology and political science at Stanford. ''If there had been a discrepancy, there's every reason to believe it could have been explained by many other aspects of methodology.
''But people's imagination would have been drawn to the Bradley effect, or the reverse Bradley effect. Americans would start to wonder whether polling is a reliable science or whether you can trust the government's count of the vote. It's such a relief that none of that questioning has to happen now.''
It remains to be seen whether attitudes on race have changed for the long term. Concerns about the economy may have simply prompted people to set aside racist attitudes. Or Mr. Obama's growing lead in many pre-election polls may have caused people to rethink opinions about whether a black man could lead the country.
But if election polling showed anything about attitudes on race, it may have been about Americans' quickness to ascribe racial motives; to some extent, they blame racism more than they actually act on it -- or at least, vote on it. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in late October, Obama supporters were more likely than McCain voters to say they knew someone who was not supporting Mr. Obama because he is black. McCain backers were more likely than Obama supporters to say they knew someone who was supporting him because he is black.
''It says something about race and our culture that we were more likely to attribute racial motivation to people who disagree with us than to people who agree with us,'' said Kathy Frankovic, the director of surveys at CBS News.
Ms. Frankovic said, ''Despite all the claims that Americans have moved beyond race, we still want to talk about race.''
Many authorities on polling have long questioned whether the Bradley effect ever existed at all. It was named for Tom Bradley, the black candidate who lost the 1982 California governor's race despite polls predicting he would win. The presumption was that people misled pollsters about how willing they were to vote for a black candidate, but scholars and pollsters have pointed out that polls failed to account for absentee ballots, which swung the election to the white Republican.
A more recent study at Harvard found that a ''Wilder effect'' -- named for L. Douglas Wilder, the former governor of Virginia -- did exist throughout the mid-1990s, but has disappeared as race-freighted issues like crime and welfare have faded.
This year, polls predicted accurately voter attitudes on race and other issues.
Most national polls taken in the final days of the campaign showed Mr. Obama leading by seven to nine percentage points; with returns still being counted, he is winning the popular vote by six points.
In battleground states, said Mr. Blumenthal of Pollster.com, the difference between most polls and the actual outcome was well within the margin of error. The exceptions, he said, were where there were relatively few polls taken, making the predictions unreliable. But there was not the kind of pattern that would suggest a Bradley effect.
In Pennsylvania, Mr. Blumenthal said, the final trend estimate was a seven percentage point margin; Mr. Obama won by 10. In Ohio, the final margin was three points; he won by four, and in Florida, the margin pre-election was 1.7 percentage points, and Mr. Obama won by 2.5.
Pre-election polling may have been more accurate this year because it was more intense. Gallup, for instance, did daily tracking polls of 1,000 voters beginning Jan. 2. By comparison, in 2000, the organization polled 400 people a day starting Labor Day, to produce a rolling average over three days. In 2004, it polled for a few days at selected points, rather than night by night.
Frank Newport, the editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, said any polls where Mr. Obama underperformed or overperformed slightly had been affected by randomness, rather than bad polling or hidden racism. ''Scientifically, it's hard to disentangle race in this election, just as it is hard to tease out how McCain's age was a factor,'' Mr. Newport said.
Mr. Obama lost white voters by 12 points, but that is the same margin Al Gore lost them by in 2000 and better than the 17-point margin John Kerry lost them by in 2004. He also lost among white men by a 16-point margin, 57 percent to 41 percent. But again, that is a better result for the Democrat among this group compared with 2004 (when Mr. Kerry lost white men by 25 points) and 2000 (when Mr. Gore lost white men by 24 points.)
That trend carried through in some key states. While Mr. Obama did not carry white voters in Indiana, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania or Virginia, for example, he lost them by smaller margins than Mr. Kerry did in 2004.

GRAPHIC: CHART: HIGH TURNOUT: Percentage of the population eligible to vote that voted in each presidential election. (Source: Dr. Michael McDonald (George Mason University)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLISHING (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



244 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Several Early Choices for New Administration Have Clinton Pedigree

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Jackie Calmes and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Barack Obama argued for months that victory for his opponent would be akin to a third term for President Bush. But as he embarks on his own presidency, Mr. Obama faces the challenge of building an administration that does not look like a third term for former President Bill Clinton.
Introducing his first appointments as president-elect, Mr. Obama reached deep into the Clinton fold on Wednesday, naming John D. Podesta, a former White House chief of staff, to lead his transition team. He has asked another former Clinton aide, Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, to be his own chief of staff and is said to be choosing between two other Clinton veterans for national security adviser.
Mr. Obama tried to balance his initial announcement by naming two co-chairmen to work with Mr. Podesta on the transition, and he will soon introduce other key advisers without any Clinton pedigrees. 
But this is only the beginning of a delicate balancing act for Mr. Obama: between bringing a new generation of leadership to Washington as a signal of his commitment to his pledge to change politics, and recruiting, at a time of intense economic and national security challenges, from the biggest pool of Democrats with national executive branch experience.
The tension has already generated concern among the Obama aides who labored for two years to turn an underdog into a president, in part by beating Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York to win the Democratic nomination, only to watch him turn to the Clinton crowd when it comes time to stock a government.
As loyalists in his Chicago headquarters spent the final weeks of the campaign focused on finishing the election, they were deliberately kept away from the fledgling transition efforts begun by Mr. Podesta under Mr. Obama's direction in Washington.
''They're torn,'' a prominent Democrat close to the campaign said of Mr. Obama's advisers. ''There's half of them that think, 'We're in the midst of a huge economic crisis; let's get the most experienced people out there.' The other half think, 'Hey, we're the change candidate.' ''
As Matt Bennett, a founder of Third Way, a Democratic-oriented advocacy group, put it: ''The big question is how fresh Obama wants to look. The Clinton administration is going to be a black mark for a lot of these candidates -- it will be for some and won't for others -- just because he wants to look like his own man.''
For Mr. Obama and the Clintons, this represents the next chapter in a relationship fraught with ambition, respect and resentment. As he battled Mrs. Clinton in the primaries, Mr. Obama made a point of distancing himself from her husband's administration, regularly disparaging what he saw as its defining traits: the politics of triangulation and governance by polls. By contrast, Mr. Obama praised Ronald Reagan as a transformational figure.
After Mr. Obama beat Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic nomination, the two camps struggled to merge their operations and forge a utilitarian partnership to win back the White House. By the end of the campaign, the two sides appeared at last to have made their peace as both Bill and Hillary Clinton barnstormed key states for Mr. Obama. Now it is up to Mr. Obama to take over a Democratic Party dominated for the last 16 years by the Clintons.
As he looks to build a presidency from scratch, Mr. Obama recognizes that he needs at least some of the expertise of the Clinton circles, advisers said. Most telling was his decision even before the election to tap Mr. Podesta, founder and president of the Center for American Progress, a Washington group widely viewed as Mrs. Clinton's government-in-waiting until she lost.
Mr. Podesta put together an extensive team to plan for a possible Obama transition; not counting Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s representatives, all 10 members of the advisory board served in the Clinton administration. Still, some of them held relatively low-level positions in the Clinton era and were not identified so personally with the former president. And now Mr. Podesta is being joined by two co-chairmen, Valerie Jarrett and Pete Rouse, who are both close to Mr. Obama.
Moreover, while Mr. Emanuel was a key aide to Mr. Clinton, he has also been a personal friend of Mr. Obama's from Chicago and at times has served as a bridge between rival camps. Some Clinton veterans under consideration for top jobs have been with Mr. Obama since the beginning of the primaries, having broken with the Clintons, including Gregory B. Craig, Susan E. Rice and Richard Danzig.
''We don't just want this to be sort of Clinton redux,'' said a senior Obama adviser involved in transition discussions. ''There are plenty of good names out there, strong names that could say 'change.' ''
The debate has already been joined over top economic and national security positions. Mr. Craig, who served as the State Department's director of policy planning under Mr. Clinton, and later as his impeachment trial lawyer, and James B. Steinberg, who was Mr. Clinton's deputy national security adviser, appear to be the top two contenders for national security adviser, key Democrats said. Ms. Rice may become the deputy, they said.
But Democrats appear split over the Treasury Department. Some are pressing for former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers to be brought back to help deal with the financial crisis, but several people close to the process said that would send the wrong signal. ''You don't want to have Clinton's Treasury secretary,'' said one well-connected Democrat, himself a Clinton veteran. ''This can't look like Clinton 3. He's got to put his own stamp on this.''
At the same time, given the record of prosperity and budget surpluses in the Clinton era, tapping his economic team might be justified, some Obama advisers said. Other former Clinton White House aides whose names are being circulated for top economic posts in the Obama administration include Laura D'Andrea Tyson, Gene Sperling and Lael Brainard.
This, of course, is not the first time an incoming president has struggled to establish his own identity apart from his predecessors. William A. Galston, who was a policy adviser in Mr. Clinton's White House, recalled that the Clinton team after the 1992 election was leery of bringing in too many veterans of the last Democratic administration, headed by Jimmy Carter.
''Part of the Clinton transition team's aversion to Carter personnel was rooted in the sense that the Carter administration was less of a success at home and abroad,'' Mr. Galston said. The difference, he added, is that ''Carter left office with a very low approval rating, while Bill Clinton left office with a very high approval rating.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama campaigning on Oct. 29 in Florida with former President Bill Clinton. Mr. Obama takes over a party dominated by the Clintons for 16 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 John D. Podesta, a former chief of staff in the Clinton White House, will lead President-elect Obama's transition team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN PODESTA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



245 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, No Day to Bask as He Starts to Build a Team

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Michael Luo in New York and Jackie Calmes, Helene Cooper, Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker in Washington.

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama began moving Wednesday to build his administration and make good on his ambitious promises to point the United States in a different direction, as his commanding victory reordered the American political landscape and transfixed much of the nation and the world.
A day after becoming the first African-American to capture the presidency, Mr. Obama announced a transition team and prepared to name an ally as his White House chief of staff in his first steps toward assuming power. President Bush vowed to work closely with Mr. Obama to ensure a smooth transition in the first handover since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the fourth-ranking House Democrat and a close friend of Mr. Obama's from Chicago, has been offered the job of chief of staff, and although he was said to be concerned about the effects on his family and giving up his influential role on Capitol Hill, many Democrats said they expected him to accept it. Mr. Obama named John D. Podesta, the former Clinton White House chief of staff, to lead his transition team along with Valerie Jarrett, a longtime adviser, and Pete Rouse, his Senate chief of staff. 
In turning to Mr. Emanuel and Mr. Podesta, Mr. Obama sought out two of the hardest-hitting veterans of President Bill Clinton's administration, known for their deep Washington experience, savvy and no-holds-barred approach to politics. Neither is considered a practitioner of the ''new politics'' that Mr. Obama promised on the campaign trail to bring Republicans and Democrats together, suggesting that the cool and conciliatory new president is determined to demonstrate toughness from the beginning.
Mr. Obama stayed largely out of sight on Wednesday as Democrats counted their gains and Republicans stewed over what went wrong. The scope of his success underscored the nation's discontent with Mr. Bush's presidency. Mr. Obama captured an estimated 52 percent of the popular vote and 349 electoral votes to John McCain's 46 percent and 162 electoral votes, with Missouri and North Carolina still too close to call.
Mr. Obama also ushered in a wave of Democrats who strengthened his party's hold over Congress, picking up at least five seats in the Senate and 19 in the House. Republican senators in Alaska, Minnesota and Oregon were still clinging to razor-thin leads, including Ted Stevens of Alaska, fresh from his conviction on seven felony counts of failing to disclose $250,000 in gifts and services he received.
But the crowds had barely drifted out of Grant Park in Chicago after an exuberant late-night celebration of Mr. Obama's triumph before the rising sun brought fresh signs of the daunting burdens to come.
In Russia, President Dmitri A. Medvedev warned that he would deploy missiles if Mr. Obama built Mr. Bush's planned missile defense system in Eastern Europe. In Afghanistan, President Hamid Karzai pleaded with Mr. Obama to halt air strikes that have been killing civilians. And in the United States, stock markets plunged again amid more dark economic news.
Still, the phenomenon of a black president of the world's most powerful nation captured public imagination in many quarters of the globe. Supporters in many cities in the United States chanted in the street and large crowds gathered at the headquarters of newspapers such as The New York Times and The Washington Post seeking sold-out copies of historic front pages.
The Congressional committee that puts together the inauguration ceremonies announced that the theme would be ''A New Birth of Freedom,'' to mark the 200th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's birth, symbolically linking one president from Illinois who freed the slaves to another who broke the ultimate racial barrier in politics.
Even the departing Bush team recognized the power of the moment. ''It will be a stirring sight to watch President Obama, his wife, Michelle, and their beautiful girls step through the doors of the White House,'' Mr. Bush told reporters in the Rose Garden. ''I know millions of Americans will be overcome with pride at this inspiring moment that so many have awaited for so long.''
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise appearance at her department's daily briefing to congratulate Mr. Obama.
''As an African-American, I am especially proud because this is a country that's been through a long journey in terms of overcoming wounds and making race not the factor in our lives,'' Ms. Rice said. ''That work is not done, but yesterday was obviously an extraordinary step forward.''
The election proved so invigorating to the American public that turnout climbed to its highest rate in 44 years. Although experts differed in their projections as provisional and absentee ballots are counted, Michael McDonald, a voting expert at George Mason University, estimated that 133.3 million people had voted, eclipsing the 123 million who participated four years ago. That amounted to 62.6 percent of all eligible voters, just shy of the 62.8 percent in 1964.
With the election now behind them, the Bush and Obama teams began the delicate 77-day transition until inauguration. The General Services Administration turned over 120,000 square feet of office space in downtown Washington to the Obama transition team and select Obama advisers were due to be given interim security clearances.
Mr. Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will receive briefings Thursday from Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence, and thereafter each morning by a pair of Central Intelligence Agency officials. Mr. Obama was given brief updates during the campaign, but aides said the sessions now would resemble the presidential daily briefing presented to Mr. Bush each morning.
Beyond choosing staff members, Mr. Obama must decide how active he intends to be in asserting leadership during the transition. Mr. Obama has conferred with Congressional leaders about passing a $100 billion economic stimulus package in a lame-duck session the week of Nov. 17 to pay for public works projects, aid to cities and states, and unemployment, food stamp and heating benefits.
But Congressional aides said that if Mr. Obama could not win agreement from Mr. Bush and Senate Republicans, they might scale the package back to about $60 billion, then come back in January with a broader plan.
Mr. Obama talked regularly with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. about the financial crisis during the campaign, but it remained unclear how closely he wants to coordinate action during the transition. The situation is so dire, it may demand immediate action from a newly elected president, but Obama advisers are wary of taking ownership over decisions made by Mr. Bush.
On his first morning as president-elect, Mr. Obama did something he rarely did the last 22 months: he woke up at home in Chicago and had breakfast with his wife, Michelle, and his two young daughters, Malia and Sasha. He spent the day out of view, making thank you calls and meeting with transition advisers, a decision aides said was intended to draw a line between the campaign and the coming task of governing. They said he canceled fireworks at the Tuesday night celebration to underscore the seriousness of the moment.
As he began to assemble his White House, Mr. Obama sought to persuade Mr. Emanuel to be his right hand. Mr. Emanuel, a top aide in the Clinton White House, did not accept immediately, with close associates saying he was torn between helping the new administration and staying in the House, where he aspires to become speaker. His wife and three children, who live in Chicago, are reluctant to move to Washington, friends said.
Mr. Emanuel would bring extensive legislative experience and instincts for how to run a White House, but his brash partisan past could undercut Mr. Obama's promise to bridge the divide in Washington. His unquestioned loyalty to Mr. Obama is a powerful asset to the president-elect.
While waiting to settle the matter with Mr. Emanuel, Mr. Obama went ahead and announced his transition team, to be led by Mr. Podesta, Ms. Jarrett and Mr. Rouse. They will be helped by a 12-member board, including Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, former Commerce Secretary William Daley, former Energy Secretary Federico F. Pena and former Environmental Protection Agency director Carol Browner.
Washington was abuzz with speculation over who would join the new administration, some of it informed, much of it guesswork. Democrats close to the Obama team said they believed the likeliest choices for Treasury secretary would be Lawrence H. Summers, who held the post in the Clinton administration, and Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
In the national security arena, much depends on whether Mr. Obama decides to ask Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to stay to demonstrate bipartisanship. If Mr. Obama decides against it, or Mr. Gates turns him down, Democrats see former Deputy Defense Secretary John J. Hamre and former Navy Secretary Richard J. Danzig as two candidates for the Pentagon.
Without Mr. Gates, Mr. Obama might want to tap a Republican for the State Department, perhaps including Senators Richard G. Lugar of Indiana or Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, advisers said. If Mr. Gates stays, some Democrats said, Senator John F. Kerry, the Democratic nominee who gave Mr. Obama the platform at the 2004 convention that vaulted him to national fame, is a leading choice to be secretary of state.
For national security adviser, Mr. Obama might pick between James B. Steinberg, a former deputy national security adviser, and Gregory B. Craig, a former State Department official. Mr. Danzig and Dennis Ross, a longtime Middle East envoy, are also mentioned. Susan E. Rice, a former assistant secretary of state and early Obama adviser, is often described as a possible deputy national security adviser or ambassador to the United Nations.
Democrats said they had heard that Howard Dean, the Democratic National Committee chairman, who is a doctor, might be a candidate for secretary of health and human services; Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina may be considered for secretary of housing and urban development; and Penny S. Pritzker, a Chicago business tycoon and Mr. Obama's national finance chairwoman, could be tapped for commerce secretary.
While Mr. Bush invited his successor-to-be to visit him at the White House, Mr. Obama's advisers said that he had no immediate plans to travel to Washington and that he planned to chart out his new administration largely from Chicago. He does not plan to attend the global economic summit in Washington called by Mr. Bush for Nov. 15. But advisers did not rule out the possibility that he would meet with some visiting leaders, perhaps over dinner or at a reception.
''The one thing he is not going to do is let anyone think he's undermining the president,'' said Mr. Craig, who has advised Mr. Obama on foreign policy. ''There's only one president, and he'll take pains to make sure nothing he does is taken as undermining President Bush.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, shown leaving a hotel in Chicago on Wednesday, spent the day with his family and with transition advisers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); FELONIES (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%)

COMPANY: BASK AS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311212 RICE MILLING (91%); SIC2044 RICE MILLING (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); PETE ROUSE (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); TED STEVENS (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



246 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Finally, a Thin President

BYLINE: By COLSON WHITEHEAD. 
Colson Whitehead is the author of the forthcoming novel ''Sag Harbor.''

 BODY:
OVER the coming days and weeks, there will be many ''I never thought I'd see the day'' pieces, but none of them will be more overflowing with ''I never thought I'd see the day''-ness than this one. I'm black, you see, and I haven't gained a pound since college. I skip breakfast most days, have maybe half a sandwich for lunch, and sometimes I forget to eat dinner. Just slips my mind. Yesterday morning, I woke up to a new world. America had elected a Skinny Black Guy president.
 I never thought I'd see the day. What were the chances that someone who looked like me would come to lead the most powerful nation on earth? Slim. 
 Skinny Black Guys of my parents' generation pinned their hopes on Sammy Davis Jr. His was a big-tent candidacy, rallying Skinny Black Guys, the Rat Pack and the Jewish vote in one crooning, light-footed package. He won South Carolina, but he never gathered momentum. In the end, the Candy Man couldn't.
 No one stepped up for a long time. Michael Jackson was black and skinny, but also pretty weird, and after a while he wasn't even black any more, although he did retain his beanpole silhouette. We thought we had a winner in Chris Rock, but then he started in with his infamous ''There are Russians, and then there are ... Georgians'' routine and we decided he was too raw for the national stage. So we waited. Some lost faith. Others gorged themselves on protein shakes, believing that America might accept a black mesomorph. And some of us kept hoping. We were hungry for change, if not brunch.
 Like many Americans, I first saw Barack Obama at the 2004 Democratic convention. I remember telling my wife excitedly, ''This guy is probably stuffed after a cup of minestrone!'' 
 We knew it'd be an uphill battle. America has a long, troubled history. Last summer, The Wall Street Journal came out and said what all Americans felt, but were too afraid to say aloud: ''In a nation in which 66 percent of the voting-age population is overweight and 32 percent is obese, could Senator Obama's skinniness be a liability? Despite his visits to waffle houses, ice-cream parlors and greasy-spoon diners around the country, his slim physique just might have some Americans wondering whether he is truly like them.'' Had he bitten off more than he could chew?
 I voted for Mr. Obama, but don't give me that ''you're racist'' line. Skinny Black Guys vote Democratic 90 percent of the time, through thin and thin. Now our day has come.
 On the right, there's been much anxiety over what a Skinny Black Guy administration will look like. Will he paint the White House a warm, Cablinasian caramel, lop off the East Wing for a more svelte profile? Pack his cabinet with Garrett Morris, Dave Chappelle and Jimmie Walker? Such talk is ridiculous, although Mr. Obama doesn't hide the fact that he keeps Urkel on speed-dial ''because you never know.'' I'm confident he'll reach across the aisle to Skinny White Guys, Haven't Been Able to Get to the Gym White Guys, and If They Were Women They'd Be Called Zaftig White Guys.
 He is going to raise taxes on the middle class, though. They were right about that. Skinny Black Guys hate the middle class. No reason. Just do. 
 What else can we expect from a Skinny Black Guy White House? (I never thought I'd live to write those words!) We'll turn the corner, or close the menu, as we like to say, on the war on terrorism. The time may come to sit down at the (under-catered) table with the Taliban. The president-elect has a lot in common with these guys. No, not that. It's hard to get good takeout in the caves of Tora Bora, so you know they're pretty lean by now. Nothing breaks the ice like, ''Is that my stomach growling, or yours?''
 There's a lot of work to be done to get America back on track. There won't be time for full meals, just light snacking. No problem. With the economy tanking, we'll to have to tighten our belts. Again, no prob. When Skinny Black Guys say, ''I'll just have the Cobb salad,'' it's not a calorie thing. We're cheap. It'll come in handy when cutting the fat out of the budget in time for beach season. 
 A lot of bigots woke up yesterday to the reality of our modern world. To them I say, just because you have a high metabolism, it doesn't mean that you don't have a fierce moral vision and the right ideas to fix this country. It just means that you don't gain weight easily.
 Somewhere, the Candy Man is smiling. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHNNY HANNAH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (62%); ICE CREAM (61%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



247 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Top Priority Is Stabilizing The Patient

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Barack Obama and his advisers have spent much of the last three years devising policies to deal with the economy's big, long-term problems, like inequality, health care, the budget deficit. In the process, they came up with an agenda that's serious, detailed and mostly cogent.
Yet none of it will be their first priority.
Instead, the initial thrust of their economic policy will be on keeping the economy from falling into a recession that's nastier than most of us have ever experienced. 
This year's election coincided with an important moment in the financial crisis. The credit markets have stabilized in the last few weeks and even improved a bit. But the rest of the economy is deteriorating fairly rapidly. It's now in danger of falling into a vicious spiral, in which spending cuts by consumers and businesses lead to further layoffs and then more spending cuts.
To prevent that from happening, the Obama administration will need to move quickly -- before it takes office -- to put together some emergency plans for the financial markets and the broader economy.
Mr. Obama and his advisers acknowledge that their focus has to shift, but the change is still likely to be challenging, and a bit disappointing. ''Unfortunately, the next president's No. 1 priority is going to be preventing the biggest financial crisis in possibly the last century from turning into the next Great Depression,'' says Austan Goolsbee, an Obama adviser. ''That has to be No. 1. Nobody ever wanted that to be the priority. But that's clearly where we are.''
Throughout the campaign, whenever Mr. Obama was asked about the financial crisis, he liked to turn the conversation back to his long-term plans, by saying that they were meant to solve the very problems that had caused the crisis in the first place. Back in January, he predicted to me that the financial troubles would probably get significantly worse in 2008. They had their roots in middle-class income stagnation, which helped cause an explosion in debt, and the mortgage meltdown was likely to be just the beginning, he said then.
His prognosis was right -- and the pundits now demanding that he give up major parts of his economic agenda in response to the financial crisis are, for the most part, wrong. When you discover that a patient is in even worse shape than you thought, you don't become less aggressive about treatment. But you do have to deal with the most acute problems first.
And Mr. Obama has a big incentive to do so. The hangover from a recession typically lasts more than a year, and this recession isn't over yet. So he will be at risk of the same kind of midterm drubbing in 2010 that Ronald Reagan received in 1982 and Bill Clinton did in 1994. In the days leading up to this year's election, as they confidently reviewed the polls, some Obama aides took to joking darkly that 2010 was already looking bad.
Their best hope for changing that outlook starts with a serious stimulus bill. House Democrats have been pushing for such a bill for weeks, but the Bush administration has been opposed, largely because the House proposals have focused on government spending rather than tax cuts. Now that an Obama administration looms, Congress has two options.
It can look for compromise with the White House and pass a bill in the coming weeks, even if it's incomplete. Or it can wait until January and have a bill on Mr. Obama's desk within days of his inauguration.
There is at least one obvious area of potential compromise: Mr. Obama's call for a $1,000 payroll-tax rebate for almost every family. That would cost the government about $65 billion. But a stimulus package should probably be a lot bigger than that -- maybe $200 billion or so. And at this point, drafting it well matters more than passing it immediately.
Economic research is quite clear about what works best. As Martin Feldstein, the dean of Republican economists, has pointed out, households saved more than 80 percent of the money they received in tax rebates this spring. ''The only way to prevent a deepening recession,'' Mr. Feldstein wrote last week in The Washington Post, ''will be a temporary program of increased government spending.''
That means starting work on new construction projects that government agencies have already deemed worthy but that lack financing. It also means sending money to state governments to close their budget shortfalls, in addition to softening the blow of the downturn by extending jobless benefits (as flawed as the unemployment insurance system is).
All this will worsen the deficit. But the true cost won't be as large as the price tag on the bill will suggest. Every dollar in new government spending tends to increase the gross domestic product by about $1.50 on average, according to Moody's Economy.com. This $1.50 results in about 40 cents of additional tax revenue. So a well-written stimulus bill can pay about 40 percent of its own cost.
The second big issue is the credit markets. Banks have become somewhat more willing to make loans lately. But the financial system is still much closer to crisis than normalcy, which argues for vigilance during the transition and from the new Treasury Department.
The two leading candidates for Mr. Obama's Treasury secretary -- Timothy Geithner and Lawrence Summers -- seem likely to be more aggressive than Henry Paulson, the current secretary. Mr. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has at times lobbied for a more proactive approach to the current crisis. He favored direct equity injections into banks, for instance, before Mr. Paulson did.
As early as last December, meanwhile, Mr. Summers criticized policy makers for being ''behind the curve.'' Both he and Mr. Geithner are fond of quoting Ernesto Zedillo, the former Mexican president, as saying that since markets overreact, policy makers must overreact, too.
Of course, it won't be easy to distinguish between acceptable overreaction and reckless overreaction. Just consider the current debate about how to reduce home foreclosures.
Some Democrats have suggested that the only reason the Bush administration hasn't done more to help homeowners is that it doesn't care. But that's not really fair. Coming up with a substantial mortgage rescue plan that doesn't end up helping millions of homeowners who neither need nor deserve help is inherently tricky.
Mr. Obama seems to grasp this. His own campaign proposals for a mortgage rescue were more restrained than either John McCain's or Hillary Clinton's. Yet he waffled a bit in the campaign's final weeks and never spelled out exactly what he believes. So this issue will be a good early test of his election night pledge to ''always be honest with you about the challenges we face.''
Whatever he decides, it probably has to involve more money -- which will make the government's budget problems even worse. Some economists think next year's deficit could potentially exceed $900 billion. Relative to the size of the economy, that would be the largest deficit since the years just after World War II.
A deficit like that will indeed force Mr. Obama to change his approach to the economy's long-term problems, mainly by coming up with new ways to pay for his solutions. But that is tomorrow's problem. Today's are big enough as it is.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Geithner, speaking at a House hearing in July.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 In July, Barack Obama met in Washington with two of his economic advisers, Lawrence Summers, left, and Robert Reich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LAYOFFS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



248 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: 'JOE LOUIS MOMENT'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For the better part of 50 years, my father has tried to get me to feel the power of what he called a Joe Louis moment. Louis, the former heavyweight champion of the world, was the first universally embraced black American hero. 
 In a time of war, Louis united a divided country, not by words but with deeds. My father frequently described happy street scenes in Chicago and New York after Louis won a big fight. Now 91, my father holds on to vivid memories of exactly where he was 70 years ago when Louis defeated the German heavyweight Max Schmeling in a grand rematch at Yankee Stadium. 
 I've seen photographs of those happy faces, watched documentaries, read books about it. But on Tuesday night, I finally understood. After Barack Obama's victory in the presidential election, I felt what my father described as that Brown Bomber moment. 
 On the way back to Manhattan after reporting on the Nets game against the Phoenix Suns, I drove home to Harlem and found the giddy excitement of horns honking and streets overflowing with celebration. At Londel's, the popular gathering spot at 139th and Frederick Douglass Boulevard, crowds fanned out with joy, tears and relief, singing and dancing -- the way they must have danced and shouted for Louis in 1938. The passing cars added to the celebration with shouts and honking horns, a scene duplicated in neighborhoods across America.
 Tuesday's crowd was more diverse than the old photographs I've seen, with more white faces dancing shoulder to shoulder with neighbors from surrounding housing projects and the restaurant regulars. 
 The restaurateur Londel Davis cautioned that the struggle was only beginning. On Wednesday, we would face the same poverty, the same widening divide between haves and have-nots.
 ''Obama began his career as a community organizer,'' Londel said. ''We're going to all have to be community organizers if there's any hope of saving our kids.''
 Perhaps this is the postelection call to action for athletes, so many of whom come from underserved and economically devastated communities where hope is often in short supply. 
 Earlier, Grant Hill, the veteran Suns forward, said that aside from the obvious history of the Obama victory, he was encouraged by the involvement of so many colleagues.
 ''What's interesting,'' Hill said, ''is that I've seen a lot of athletes lending their support -- either way, for both candidates. Just seeing athletes playing more of a role in the political process is something we haven't really seen for a while. I've seen athletes really coming out, lending their support, giving money, going to events, hosting fund-raisers. You really haven't seen a lot of that in the last 20, 30 years.''
 In 1990, when Michael Jordan was asked why he failed to publicly support Charlotte's former mayor Harvey Gantt, an African-American, in a Senate race in North Carolina against the conservative Republican Jesse Helms, he responded, ''Republicans buy sneakers, too.'' 
 Jordan's response became the anthem of profit-based neutrality for professional athletes and cemented the perception that athletes simply wanted to avoid controversy as they played to a largely white fan base by not saying or doing anything that could be construed as offensive. 
 All that may be changing now. This presidential race created a free space for activism without risk. Many athletes played an active role in encouraging young fans to register and vote. In Boston, the Celtics star Ray Allen worked on voter-registration drives. Los Angeles Clippers guard Baron Davis spoke at a fund-raiser for Obama in California and acclaimed him on his blog. Curt Schilling, the Red Sox pitcher, made the case for John McCain at 38pitches.com, where he wrote Tuesday night that he was, misspelling aside, ''proud to know more Americans voted yesterday than at any time in this countries history.''
 But what will all of this mean moving forward? Will professional athletes take a more active role in advancing and driving real causes -- and not just their own? 
 They can practice by being more active in the politics of their sports. Will N.F.L. players finally become involved in league affairs, especially in identifying and electing a new executive director? Will N.B.A. players, 70 percent of whom are African-American, express their preference for whom the next league commissioner should be? 
 Hill was cautiously optimistic that they would. 
 ''If you look at the election process, you see a lot of young athletes who felt vested in the process and feel that they played a part,'' he said. ''This younger generation feels they can do whatever; they don't need to wait, they don't need to wait their turn. 'I want it all now. I can do my part.' It's a different mind-set. I've seen it as I get older. It's different, and it's kind of refreshing.'' 
 Around midnight on election day, I called my father in Las Vegas and let him hear the crowds shouting, horns blaring and sobs of joy in the Harlem night. I'd finally experienced my own, long-awaited Joe Louis moment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Louis's knockout of Max Schmeling in 1938 was seen as a unifyng moment for the United States, but it was especially resonant for the black Americans who revered Louis.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Barack Obama's victory in the presidential election Tuesday brought a new generation of Harlem residents into the streets for a celebration.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In Harlem on Tuesday night, residents filled the street in front of the Apollo Theater to celebrate Barack Obama's election victory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); POLITICS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); DANCE (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (59%); PHOENIX SUNS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



249 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in Congress Vowing To Pursue an Aggressive Agenda

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Flush with victory built on incursions in the South and West, Congressional Democratic leaders promised to use their new power to join President-elect Barack Obama in pursuing an aggressive agenda that puts top priority on the economy, health care, energy and ending the Iraq war. 
 By reaching deep into traditionally Republican turf, the Democrats in Tuesday's elections expanded their majorities in both the House and the Senate. They picked up at least five Senate seats, in Colorado, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina and Virginia. And they picked up at least 19 House seats, with new Democrats coming from Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina and Virginia.
 The full extent of the new Democratic majorities remained unknown, with tight Senate races still undecided in Alaska, Minnesota and Oregon and a runoff scheduled on Dec. 2 in Georgia. At least six House races remained too close to call.
 Still, the promise of strong control of Congress also left Democratic leaders grappling with challenges of balancing a wider spectrum of views within their own party while confronting a diminished House Republican conference now decidedly more conservative. 
 The exuberance of Tuesday night's victories was also tempered by unease over the public's high expectations for a party in control of both Congress and the White House amid economic turmoil, two wars overseas and a yawning budget gap. 
 On the day after the election, leadership battles were breaking out across Capitol Hill as lawmakers contemplated the prospects of new power and opportunity. The quick start to the skirmishing signaled that some of the more bitter fights in the next Congress could be internal battles among Democrats. 
 For instance, Democratic aides said that Representative Henry A. Waxman of California was expected to challenge Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the longest-serving House Democrat, for chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Energy issues are expected to be a major focus of the Obama administration. 
 And before the week is out, Democrats could try to oust Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the independent who campaigned for Senator John McCain, from the chairmanship of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who spoke with Mr. Obama by phone on Wednesday morning, said that they had made plans to discuss coordinated efforts for the transition and the new Congress, but that a more ambitious agenda would unfold next year. 
 ''Our priorities have tracked the Obama campaign priorities for a very long time,'' Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference where she cited the economy, health care, energy and the Iraq war as topping the agenda. 
 She said Democrats were talking with the Bush White House about a potential $61 billion economic stimulus that could be approved in a lame-duck session. 
 But Ms. Pelosi said Democrats could open the 111th Congress in January with efforts to adopt measures blocked by President Bush, including ones to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program and embryonic stem cell research. She said Democrats had no choice but to chart a centrist course. ''The country must be governed from the middle,'' she said. But Democrats on both sides of the Capitol were just beginning to digest the new faces in their expanded caucuses. 
 Those new members include Jim Himes, a Harvard- and Oxford-educated former Goldman Sachs banker turned affordable-housing advocate who ousted Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, the only Republican House member in New England. 
 But even as Democrats tightened their grip on the traditionally liberal Northeast, roughly one-third of this year's gains in the House came in the West, including two seats in New Mexico and one each in Arizona, Colorado, Idaho and Nevada. 
 In Idaho, the Democrats scored an unlikely House victory when Walt Minnick, a self-described ''gun-owning outdoorsman'' who once worked in the administration of Richard M. Nixon defeated Bill Sali, a Republican incumbent. 
 Mr. Minnick, who emphasized his resume as a businessman and longtime executive in the lumber industry, will join a Democratic conference long dominated by urban liberals and led by Ms. Pelosi, of San Francisco. 
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and other Democrats pointed to their successes in the West as evidence that they were building an enduring majority. They said new lawmakers from the region would bring a pragmatic approach driven less by partisanship and more by common sense.
 Representative Tom Udall, a Democrat who won a Republican-held Senate seat in New Mexico, said, ''I feel like I am coming in as a Western problem-solver, as somebody who has had success working across the aisle on many issues in my home state.'' Mr. Udall's cousin Representative Mark Udall won the Senate race in Colorado. 
 Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana, a Democrat who won a second term on Tuesday, said the results showed that Republicans no longer had a guaranteed hold on the West. ''When Democrats win in Idaho, that means that there is not a single place that's safe left anywhere,'' Mr. Schweitzer said.
 New Mexico was a showcase of Democratic strength in this election, partly because of strong support from Hispanics, as the party won a Senate seat and two more House seats, turning the state's Congressional delegation thoroughly blue. 
 But even as Mr. Reid was crowing about gun-loving Democrats in the West, Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, was part of a separate conference call focusing on how many Democrats won by embracing progressive economic policies. 
 Mr. Brown said that he expected Republicans and more conservative Democrats to join an array of legislation related to alternative energy, trade, jobs and tax policy. ''With a popular president leading,'' he said, ''we are going to see all but the most closed-minded Republicans joining us.''
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, issued a statement on Wednesday offering Mr. Obama cooperation. 
 Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said he believed that the new House majority would coalesce on most major economic issues but that some disagreements were inevitable.
 ''Clearly we are a big-tent party, and when it comes to social issues there will be some different perspectives in the caucus,'' Mr. Van Hollen said.
 Although Democrats fell short of their goal of a 60-vote Senate majority, which would have given them the power to break filibusters, Ms. Pelosi said it would be far easier to get Republican support for Democratic bills with Mr. Bush out of office. She said Republicans often blocked bills to protect the president. 
 House and Senate Democrats said they believed the Obama administration and Congressional Democrats could mesh in a way that Capitol Hill Democrats and the Carter and Clinton administrations could not. As senators, Mr. Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., built strong relationships on Capitol Hill. 
 President Jimmy Carter and President Bill Clinton, as former governors, were outsiders to Congress. 
 Republicans are already warning that Mr. Obama, a relatively junior lawmaker, will be outmaneuvered by more experienced operators on Capitol Hill, a proposition Democrats dismissed, noting that Mr. Obama would benefit from the counsel of Mr. Biden, a longtime senator from Delaware. ''I think both sides realize we need one another and both sides realize that we better not blow this,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi, at a news conference Tuesday, is among leaders planning how to work with the new president. (PHOTO: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.P13) CHARTS: SENATE SEATS TAKEN BY DEMOCRATS: Democratic candidates took five Senate seats held by Republicans, with races in Oregon and Alaska still too close to call as of 5:00 p.m. Eastern time. Two other Senate elections remain unresolved, with the Minnesota race apparently headed for a recount, and the contest in Georgia probably close enough to force a Dec. 2 runoff election. (Sources: CQ Press Voting and Elections Collection
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Politics
The Cook Political Report
 2008 results from the Associated Press) (pg.P13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); APPROVALS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



250 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Obama, History and the Task Ahead

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama: Racial Barrier Falls in Decisive Victory'' (front page, Nov. 5):
 President-elect Barack Obama has brought new hope to Americans and to all the world. But this is only the beginning. 
 We face immense difficulties -- difficulties economic, political and moral. Mr. Obama does not have a magic wand he can wave and rid us of our problems. We Americans are not children to be rescued but rather partners who must share in the sacrifices to come. 
 Correcting our past errors will not be painless. President-elect Obama needs our support now every bit as much as he did during the election. 
 Rose Wilson Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 5, 2008 
 To the Editor: 
 Watching and hearing Barack Obama speak so eloquently in Grant Park in Chicago on Tuesday night was a singularly moving experience. I was reminded of why my parents -- and so many millions of others -- emigrated to the United States: because they saw the possibilities and the opportunities America offered.
 I went to bed feeling comfortable, secure, proud and -- for the first time in a long time -- optimistic. I woke up later than usual to a metaphoric bright sun and blue skies. 
 I believe that there is hope in the air and that we are moving toward a united United States.
 Eli Greenbaum Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As the white mother of a multiracial family, I can't stop the tears from flowing. There are so many reasons to be happy today, so many ways the world has, in an instant, changed for the better. 
 As Barack Obama's message of hope and unity rang out in Grant Park in Chicago, I slipped away from the TV to stand over the beds of my children. I am crying because what Mr. Obama has given me is a sense that my children are safer today than they were yesterday.
 Rachel Fink South Hadley, Mass., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 For those of us old enough to remember, the depth of emotion goes beyond overcoming the last eight years. I have cried, I have tried to figure out why and now suddenly realize why: the victory of Barack Obama does something I never thought could ever happen.
 It does nothing less for me than heal my chronic young boyhood wound of Nov. 22, 1963. And also the wounds of Bobby and Martin. Only now, half a lifetime later, can I account for the depth of my emotion only by the feeling in my gut that these ancient sadnesses and wounds, which I thought would be part of me forever, finally, in this new beginning time, have been healed.
 James Adler Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The people have spoken. Barack Obama will be our next president.
 He was not my choice. I believe that John McCain would have made a better president. But that doesn't matter now. The people have spoken.
 I wish President-elect Obama well. I wish him success. Success for the American people.
 I hope that he will grow into the position to truly become the president for all Americans, not merely those who elected him. Or those who backed him.
 Presidents come and go. Our nation, and our constitutional form of government, ones hopes, endure.
 Joe Waldron Pensacola, Fla., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Much will be analyzed, discussed and published concerning the amazing achievement of Barack Obama and Joe Biden. There will be those who will emphasize economics or wars or our lessened standing in the world. Truth be told, the major factor in this historic achievement is George W. Bush and his outrageous blot on America and the world.
 Martin M. Bruce Boca Raton, Fla., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 If John McCain had campaigned with the same eloquence with which he conceded, he might have been elected.
 Richard Kavesh Nyack, N.Y., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 While I'm thrilled that California voted decisively for Barack Obama, I find it sad that high voter turnout by members of minorities may have helped pass Proposition 8, the ban on same-sex marriage. 
 How do we elect a black man to be our president while denying civil rights to another minority group? When will we all come together and realize that injustice toward some is really against us all?
 Brian Kelleher Angels Camp, Calif., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Next President'' (editorial, Nov. 5):
 My heart is full with the experience of seeing Barack Obama elected. I was particularly touched by the tone of his speech in Grant Park in Chicago.
 While celebratory, he demonstrated his characteristic grounded yet hopeful stance -- pointing us to the hard road ahead. 
 I am hopeful that he will revolutionize citizen participation in the way he revolutionized campaigning, by using his diverse, committed network of supporters nationwide to mobilize on behalf of needed policy efforts around pressing issues like the economy, health care and education.
 Let's not let the enthusiasm of the historic moment dwindle. What we need is a continuously engaged citizenry to help fulfill the promise Mr. Obama signifies.
 Julie Engel Manga Brookline, Mass., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Yes, the Obama administration will face enormous challenges (editorial, Nov. 5). 
 But the biggest one will be not to get bogged down by the daily routine of governing and to keep inspiring people as Barack Obama clearly did during his campaign.
 I just witnessed a celebration here in Madison, Wis., with hundreds and maybe thousands of college kids marching in jubilation. (It was nice to see them being so excited about something other than their football team's victory.) And when a megaphone was spontaneously passed around, several spoke not only about what was accomplished on Election Day, but also of the change that is yet to come, to be made by them, for the good of the nation and the world. 
 Barack Obama won this election not because George W. Bush's administration failed to provide protection to the citizens of this country, but to provide leadership.
 President Obama, don't you let us down!
 Anna Paretskaya Madison, Wis., Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Near-Flawless Run From Start to Finish Is Credited in Victory'' (news article, Nov. 5): 
 I wish that President-elect Barack Obama had credited the historic run of Hillary Rodham Clinton and her equally historic appearances on the campaign trail on his behalf. Her tireless efforts to convert her supporters were selfless, and certainly played an important role in the election results.
 Valerie Warner New York, Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''For Many Abroad, an Ideal Renewed'' (front page, Nov. 5):
 The last time an event in the United States elicited such good will throughout much of the world was Sept. 11, 2001. May our president lead in such a way that maintains that good will this time so that it may earn us honorable and long-term dividends. 
 Gary Lee Kraut Paris, Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Congratulations to the American people for choosing a poet with a vision for the 21st century over a warrior with a 20th-century agenda.
 ''Yes, we can'' will resonate the world over, the new mantra for tackling on a global scale the many real and immediate challenges facing us.
 Paul Lakatos Amsterdam, Nov. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Americans will never look at each other the same way again.
 For too long elected officials have failed because they did not want our help.
 President-elect Barack Obama will succeed because he asks for and expects our help.
 By the way, can we move the inauguration up to Thanksgiving Day? 
 Aleta Fischer Bridgewater, N.J., Nov. 5, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



251 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, Long-Term Ills and Short-Term Pain

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA's victory in Tuesday's presidential election was in many ways a repeat of Ronald Reagan's win 28 years ago.
 His eventual success as president may depend on a willingness to do what Mr. Reagan did: be willing to combat long-term economic problems while accepting short-term pain and the risk of a prolonged slowdown that could damage his popularity. 
 Both men were elected in a year when a recession had severely damaged the popularity of the incumbent. In each race, the incumbent party's candidate tried to paint the challenger as a dangerous risk. 
 Mr. Reagan was portrayed as a right-wing actor with extremist views; Mr. Obama as an inexperienced liberal who was weak on national defense and had ''palled around,'' as Gov. Sarah Palin put it, with a terrorist.
 In each case, it appeared that the presidential debates helped to persuade voters that the candidate was an acceptable choice.
 Mr. Obama will enter office with the United States, and most developed countries, in a recession. What had been a slow downturn accelerated in September when the financial crisis worsened and the investment bank Lehman Brothers was allowed to collapse. Businesses and consumers slowed their spending drastically.
 Stimulating the economy will almost certainly be at the top of the economic agenda, and some action is likely this year by the lame-duck Congress. Mr. Obama will obviously be in a position to help shape that legislation.
 In doing so, he would be wise to keep in focus the longer-term problems that need to be solved, and to try to stimulate the economy without worsening those problems. They include severe budget deficits, crumbling infrastructure, accelerating costs for health care and a housing crisis marked by falling prices and rising foreclosures.
 The financial system has been kept afloat with the aid of government bailouts, and most mortgage loans -- in a country that sees itself as a bastion of free market capitalism -- are being made or guaranteed by the federal government or its agencies.
 Unemployment is rising, and the figures for October -- to be released Friday -- are expected to show a sharp increase.
 Some have suggested that Mr. Obama should push for infrastructure spending, to repair roads and bridges and sewer systems, as a way to stimulate the economy and provide jobs while attacking long-term problems. The tax rebates earlier this year provided a temporary lift to spending, but the effect faded almost immediately, and a repeat of that tactic could increase the deficit without much offsetting benefit. But an infrastructure bill could easily degenerate into a pork-laden measure that benefits regions with powerful lawmakers, rather than serious needs.
 How to cushion the foreclosure crisis will be a major issue for Mr. Obama and the increased Democratic majorities in Congress. Doing that without creating unintended and undesirable side effects could be difficult. Measures that delay the adjustment in house prices could postpone the day that the housing market is able to recover. Measures that help those in danger of losing their homes could encourage some who are now paying their mortgages to default.
 Reshaping the financial system, and its regulation, will be a major challenge in 2009, perhaps made more difficult by the fact that most major financial institutions are now partly owned by the government.
 Mr. Reagan's major challenge was soaring inflation, which his three predecessors -- Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter -- had tried to confront without much success. The Carter recession was over when Mr. Reagan was inaugurated, but a focus on short-term economic growth would have made it much harder to bring down inflation.
 The course Mr. Reagan adopted was to cut taxes at the same time he allowed a Federal Reserve chairman appointed by Mr. Carter -- Paul Volcker -- the freedom to attack inflation by sharply raising interest rates. 
 Mr. Volcker, now an adviser to Mr. Obama, is remembered as an economic hero and has been suggested as a possible Treasury secretary in the Obama administration even though he is 81 years old. 
 But in the early 1980s Mr. Volcker was blamed for causing a severe recession that began early in Mr. Reagan's tenure and continued through November 1982. The Republicans suffered losses in the 1982 midterm elections, and Democrats thought they were in good shape to win back the White House in 1984.
 Instead, the economy was clearly in recovery by then, and inflation was down sharply. Mr. Reagan was re-elected in a landslide, and was so successful that he became the first president since Calvin Coolidge to leave office and be succeeded by a member of his own party, George H. W. Bush. 
 George W. Bush, the son of the elder Bush, came into office determined to follow the Reagan course and not make the mistakes that his father had made, which led to his being a one-term president. He too confronted a weak economy early in his administration, and like Mr. Reagan he was able to push through substantial tax cuts as a way of stimulating the economy. 
 But unlike Mr. Reagan, who later allowed taxes to be raised to combat soaring budget deficits, the younger Mr. Bush refused to contemplate such an action. When the economy was booming, he saw no need to apply the brakes, and neither did the Federal Reserve chairman he had inherited, Alan Greenspan. Had they been willing to do so, the current bust might have been avoided, or at least been much milder.
 Like Mr. Reagan, Mr. Obama will have to confront taxes in his first year. The Bush administration's large tax cut in 2001 was temporary -- a strategy that under Senate rules made it possible to push through the cut without having to win Democratic votes -- and needs to be changed in 2009. Had Mr. Bush chosen a bipartisan approach, the tax cut would have been smaller, and the new Congress would not have to pass a tax bill immediately.
 In passing a tax bill, the Congress and Mr. Obama will have to balance the long-term deficit problem with the need for shorter-term stimulus.
 Mr. Bush's first tax bill presaged a leadership style that focused on partisanship and a determination to avoid compromise with his opponents. Mr. Obama's first tax bill could show whether he will follow the bipartisan approach that he, like Mr. Bush before him, promised in the campaign.
 The success or failure of his administration is likely to be determined by how well he deals with the long-term problems the nation confronts, not by how soon the current recession ends.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Like Ronald Reagan, Barack Obama was elected in a year when a recession had helped damage the popularity of the incumbent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX RELIEF (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



252 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3097 words

HEADLINE: A Towering To-Do List

BYLINE: By The New York Times

 BODY:
The dismal state of the economy helped decide Tuesday's presidential election. And it almost certainly will dominate the early days of the Obama administration.
 Few presidents have entered office with an economy in such turmoil. Reflecting worries that the worst may not be over, the stock market continues to languish, with a 5 percent decline on Wednesday, leaving it 35 percent below its peak last fall. 
 The reasons are myriad: the financial system, though back from the brink, remains deeply troubled. Housing may no longer be in free fall, but plummeting values and rising defaults have impoverished many homeowners and burdened states with widening budget deficits. The once-mighty auto industry is on the verge of implosion.
 Consumers who piled up credit card debt are pulling back, a major concern because their spending helped power economic growth in recent years. And with unemployment widely expected to increase to 8 percent or higher, from 6.1 percent, consumers are likely to tighten their belts even more. 
 Moreover, with upward of $1 trillion already pledged by the federal government to bail out the banking and housing industries, financing a growing deficit to address the problems could be difficult -- and saddle the Treasury Department with high levels of debt for years to come.
 But even before President-elect Obama takes the oath of office, Democrats are likely to push his agenda with urgency, because the economy otherwise could worsen quickly -- complicating the task ahead. ''The cost of allowing an economy to flounder is very high in lost output and rising unemployment,'' said James Glassman, chief domestic economist at JPMorgan Chase & Company.
 Here are some of the crucial issues that economists say will test the new administration, and how it might address them.
 ECONOMIC STIMULUS
 Obama Is Likely 
 To Act Quickly
 Quick passage of an economic stimulus package is high on Mr. Obama's agenda, even more pressing for the moment than the tax package that he promoted repeatedly during his campaign.
 Congress could act on the stimulus this month -- but only if the president-elect signals that he favors a preinauguration special session, Congressional Democrats said. Legislators would more than likely adopt some relatively inexpensive measures rather than try to pass a much larger outlay that the Bush administration might oppose. After he takes office, Mr. Obama is likely to ask Congress for an additional economic lift, those in his camp say. 
 Before the election, the party leadership in Congress discussed a lame-duck session to take up a bill that would pump $150 billion to $200 billion into the economy. That would follow the $168 billion stimulus, most of it in rebate checks mailed to tens of millions of Americans earlier this year.
 Those checks lifted spending a bit. But they came before the credit crisis struck in force in early September. 
 ''We need a package that matches the problem as it exists today, and in my view that means at least $200 billion a year for a couple of years,'' said a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee staff. 
 As private sector spending dries up, the case builds -- among Republicans as well as Democrats -- for the government to jump-start the economy. 
 ''Right now, the economy is in a really deep recession,'' said Kevin Hassett, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior economic adviser to John McCain. 
 Like many Republicans, he wants the stimulus -- whatever its size -- to be a cut in tax rates, not an increase in public spending. The Obama camp also supports a tax cut, possibly front-loaded so that refund checks would go out before tax returns are filed in April. But that would be enacted after the inauguration. 
 As for immediate relief, Obama aides say, a lame-duck session of Congress could pass a $60 billion package of additional outlays for food stamps, extended unemployment benefits and subsidies to the states to minimize their spending cuts. 
 The big question is ''should the Democrats risk a Bush veto in a lame-duck session,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute and an Obama adviser, ''or should they wait for Obama to take office in January to get a more effective recovery package.'' 
 As a candidate, Mr. Obama said he would extend the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 for families whose income is under $250,000 a year. He pledged to add new tax breaks for homeowners who did not itemize deductions and more breaks for savings accounts, college costs and farming. He said he would change the alternative minimum tax so it did not affect the middle class. 
 To raise revenue, Mr. Obama said he would repeal the Bush tax cuts for people in the top two marginal tax brackets before their scheduled expiration at the end of 2010, and raise taxes on capital gains and dividends.
 His tax plans are reminiscent of Clinton administration policies that increased taxes on the affluent but gave targeted breaks to others. He would also repeal corporate loopholes and retain an estate tax. 
 The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated that the Obama plans would reduce revenue by as much as $2.9 trillion over a decade. The center said Mr. Obama's incentives could strengthen the labor market, while giving further breaks to ''an already favored group -- seniors.'' LOUIS UCHITELLE and JACKIE CALMES 
 MORTGAGES
 Getting a Handle
 On Foreclosures
 Mr. Obama has pledged to help hard-pressed homeowners, but he will have to move quickly to forestall a new wave of foreclosures. 
 Some in Congress favor direct mortgage relief, but others worry that the cost -- on top of the bank bailout -- will be too expensive.
 Judging by positions laid out in his campaign, Mr. Obama might seek to change personal bankruptcy laws to help people avoid losing their homes, a step that the Bush administration and the mortgage industry have resisted. 
 Like other Democrats, Mr. Obama wants to empower bankruptcy judges to ease the terms of home loans on primary residences. Under current laws, judges are prohibited from reducing the balance on those mortgages but can change loans backed by commercial property or second homes. 
 The shift, proponents say, would help keep millions of people in their homes and ease the broader housing crisis. Many mortgage companies and Wall Street investors, however, might suffer greater losses on the loans and securities backed by them. 
 The Bush administration and many lenders have argued that changing the bankruptcy law would ultimately drive up mortgage rates, worsening the downturn in the housing market. They also argue that it would violate the sanctity of contracts and drive investors away from the mortgage market. 
 But with more comfortable majorities in both houses of Congress, Democrats could move quickly. Republicans in the Senate could try to block a change through a filibuster.
 Mr. Obama has generally supported the $700 billion financial rescue package that Congress and the Bush administration negotiated and approved last month. He also endorsed the move by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., to redirect $250 billion of that money to recapitalizing the nation's banks.
 But Mr. Obama has not specifically said how he would spend the remainder of the money or whether his administration would acquire loans or securities as Congress initially intended. (The Treasury has made no acquisitions yet and it is unclear if it will do so before the Bush administration leaves office in January.) Mr. Obama has said that the government should help homeowners refinance troubled loans that can be saved. VIKAS BAJAJ 
 FEDERAL REGULATION
 Tighter Reins
 On Wall Street
 Mr. Obama called for reorganizing the financial regulatory system months before the housing and credit crises spiraled into a debacle. He outlined six principles, but offered few details. 
 He said one major priority would be to consolidate the financial regulatory system. He promised to streamline the alphabet soup of agencies, from the Federal Reserve to the Securities and Exchange Commission, that have enforcement powers. 
 But he has not said which agencies he would eliminate or merge.
 Mr. Obama has also pledged to impose stronger liquidity, capital and disclosure requirements on financial institutions, and to subject unregulated financial businesses -- like hedge funds, mortgage brokers, derivatives traders and credit-rating agencies -- to federal oversight. 
 Mr. Obama promised he would increase penalties for market manipulation and predatory lending, and create a new financial-market oversight commission to review conditions regularly and advise the president and Congress about potential risks. 
 In one of his campaign-ending speeches on Monday, Mr. Obama said, ''The last thing we can afford is four more years where no one in Washington is watching anyone on Wall Street because politicians and lobbyists killed common-sense regulations.'' 
 He returned to that theme on Tuesday night after he clinched the election, signaling that the financial industry should brace itself for a regulatory crackdown. Some Democratic lawmakers already have held hearings on what a new financial regulatory landscape would look like. JACKIE CALMES
 AUTO INDUSTRY
 In Detroit, No Cash,
 No Credit, No Time
 General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler are rapidly running out of cash in the worst sales market for new vehicles in 15 years. Both G.M. and Ford are expected to announce billions of dollars more in losses for the third quarter on Friday, and the threat of bankruptcy will grow without some form of federal assistance.
 The Bush administration has so far denied G.M., Ford and Chrysler any aid from the $700 billion financial rescue fund or any other new source of assistance. It will, however, pay out the $25 billion in low-interest loans for cleaner cars sooner than had been promised. 
 The pleas for help from the Big Three are growing louder. ''This is really a severe, severe recession for the U.S. auto industry and something we cannot sustain,'' said Michael DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief market analyst.
 Mr. Obama has promised to meet soon with the chief executives of the Big Three to discuss adding another $25 billion in aid to the loan program for more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Democratic leaders in Congress are also considering ways to inject new cash into Detroit as quickly as possible. Michigan's ranking Democrats, Senators Carl Levin and Representative John D. Dingell, will be instrumental in devising any proposed legislation.
 The aid could come in the form of government-backed, low-interest loans, similar to the bailout package for Chrysler in 1979. In addition, the Congress and Mr. Obama could tap the $700 billion financial assistance fund to buy up bad car loans and help automotive lenders get credit flowing to consumers again.
 One potential hurdle for aid, however, is the proposed merger of G.M. and Chrysler, which is majority-owned by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management. The deal, if completed, would cost thousands of jobs and has so far found little support in Washington. 
 BILL VLASIC 
 HEALTH CARE
 An Overhaul
 Will Have to Wait
 Democrats' campaign rhetoric aside, few health care analysts expect the new president and Congress to undertake a sweeping overhaul of the health care industry any time soon. 
 The more pressing needs of a faltering economy make it unlikely that big changes in health care can quickly make their way to the top of the new agenda. But analysts say the newly empowered Democrats are likely to abandon some of the health care positions staked out by the Bush administration, particularly when it comes to Medicare. 
 Private insurers' role in Medicare ''is target No. 1 for Democrats,'' said Robert Laszewski, the president of Health Policy and Strategy Associates, a consulting firm in Alexandria, Va.
 Under the privatization approach of the Bush White House, commercial insurers now provide coverage to about a quarter of the nation's 44 million Medicare enrollees -- at a cost to the Medicare program of about 15 percent more than when the government provides the benefits directly. With the threat of a Bush veto removed, Congress will now be looking to shrink or end those industry subsidies to save Medicare money, Mr. Laszewski said. 
 The president-elect and the Democratic Congress also are likely to give Medicare the power to directly negotiate with pharmaceutical companies -- a change that the Bush administration has resisted -- though the impact on prices would depend on the authority Congress grants. 
 Analysts also expect the Democrats to seek closer scrutiny of the drug industry through the Food and Drug Administration, an agency that has been stretched thin in recent years. 
 And many analysts expect Congress to take some steps to address the increasing cost of medical care. High on the list might be covering more children under the federally subsidized State Children's Health Insurance Program. Congress might also try some relatively inexpensive other changes, like pushing harder for the adoption of electronic health records or requiring hospitals and doctors to report publicly both the cost and the outcomes of their care, to enable patients to comparison-shop. 
 REED ABELSON 
 TECHNOLOGY
 To Shape Policy, 
 A Cabinet Voice
 Technology companies have long argued that they need the best and brightest engineers if they are going to compete in the global economy. President-elect Obama has endorsed the industry's call for raising the number of H-1B temporary work visas, which are available now to only 65,000 skilled foreign engineers each year. (The visas are all claimed within minutes.)
 But even with a sympathetic ear in the White House, getting Congress to agree to more visas could present a major challenge given the probability that, in a recession, public sentiment will be heightened that foreigners are taking Americans' jobs.
 In the meantime, the tech industry -- which has grown much more politically active in recent years -- will greet the new president with a list of other wishes. One is that he push policies to spread high-speed Internet access, which provides a conduit for e-commerce, online advertising and other Web-centric business models. The industry argues that the United States has fallen to 16th in the world in terms of broadband penetration, frustrating consumers with a lack of services -- like the high-speed downloading of movies -- and the still-choppy performance of their Internet connections.
 The industry also hopes Mr. Obama will stand behind his stated support of ''net neutrality,'' which is a government requirement that telecommunications companies provide Internet content providers equal access to delivery lines. 
 Such tech policy could fall to a chief technology officer, a cabinet position the president-elect has pledged to create. MATT RICHTEL 
 ENERGY
 An Agenda Faces
 Possible Delays
 An Obama presidency could mean a sharp shift in the nation's energy policies, with particular emphasis on conservation and renewable power. But some of the candidate's bolder proposals, like a global warming bill, may have to wait for the economy to recover, according to analysts and energy experts.
 High energy costs and concerns about global warming have heightened the sense of urgency for a broad policy that tackles both the nation's oil use and its energy-related carbon emissions. As a candidate, Mr. Obama shifted from his initial opposition to expanding offshore drilling, but his core message remained that the United States should reduce its oil consumption, encourage energy conservation and efficiency, and develop low-carbon forms of energy.
 ''There is an opportunity to address energy needs in a way that hasn't been possible for decades,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''It almost feels like we're picking up from where we were in the 1970s.''
 But, he added, ''resources are going to be constrained, and spending on energy will have to compete for dollars with spending on the financial crisis and two wars.''
 The Obama energy plan called for investing $150 billion in clean energy technologies over the next 10 years, creating green jobs and ensuring that a growing share of the country's electricity came from renewable sources. He also proposed an aggressive mandate over the next four decades to cut greenhouse gas emissions, which cause global warming. 
 Given the size of the Democratic majority, an Obama administration is also likely to impose stricter environmental regulations and place higher taxes on oil companies than the Bush administration did. JAD MOUAWAD
 TRADE
 Cooperation Fades,
 Protectionism Rises
 What consensus there was on international trade seemed to evaporate with the failure of world trade talks this summer. Indeed, with the world on the brink of a global recession, led by the United States and Europe, the fear of a rise in protectionism grows.
 The first test of sustaining international cooperation will come on Nov. 14 and 15, long before Mr. Obama takes office. Leaders from 20 major countries will gather in Washington with President Bush to embark on an effort to rewrite international financial regulations -- an undertaking some liken to a latter-day Bretton Woods conference. 
 Whether or not he attends, Mr. Obama will cast a long shadow. 
 In short order, the recession and a likely spike in unemployment are sure to put him under pressure from union supporters, as well as Congressional Democrats, to take a tougher line on trade.
 ''China is the issue that should be part of Obama's trade policy right away,'' said Thea M. Lee, the chief economist of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''Part of it is sending a strong message to the Chinese government that the U.S. is not willing to tolerate currency manipulation and violation of workers' rights.''
 But China's economy is slowing, making its leaders even less receptive to demands to allow their currency to rise. The United States will also need the Chinese to buy a good chunk of the debt being run up by the bailout of banks and housing.
 It is also unclear whether Mr. Obama will pursue a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which he discussed in the hard-fought primaries. 
 ''He parsed his answers in a way that suggests he understands the importance of global trade,'' said Hank Cox, a spokesman for the National Association of Manufacturers. MARK LANDLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As he indicated during the campaign, Mr. Obama might seek to change personal bankruptcy laws to help people avoid losing their homes.
President-elect Obama has encouraged the development of low-carbon forms of energy, like wind, solar and nuclear power.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN LOK/THE SEATTLE TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The problems of the cash-poor Big Three automakers are too pressing to wait for the new administration to take over.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Few analysts expect the new president and Congress to try to overhaul the health care industry any time soon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TAX LAW (61%); SALES REBATES (54%); BANK FAILURES (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



253 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Emerge for Obama's Inner Circle: Pete Rouse

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration.
Name:John D. Podesta 
Chosen for: Co-chairman of Mr. Obama's transition team. He has said he will not seek a post in the new administration.
Will bring to the job: Invaluable experience running a White House under siege as the last chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. Known for a savvy, gloves-off approach to politics and for a command of policy issues after five years running his own Washington research organization.
Is linked to Obama by: Mutual friends, including Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader; Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, a former White House colleague; and Pete Rouse, Mr. Obama's chief of staff in the Senate.
While they both come from Chicago, Mr. Podesta does not know Mr. Obama particularly well, and he supported Hillary Rodham Clinton during the primaries. Mr. Podesta nevertheless switched over to the Obama campaign smoothly and has earned Mr. Obama's trust with weeks of methodical, behind-the-scenes preparations for building the next Democratic administration.
In his own words: ''Everything the Bush administration touches turns to dust because they're so ensnared by conservative dogma and the easy profits of crony capitalism that they can't make policy or run a government with the basic competence of a Chicago alderman. After eight years in office, more people are uninsured, more middle-class families are struggling, the housing market and banking industry are in collapse, the dollar is crashing, and a lot more people are dead in Iraq, but they refuse to change course.'' From ''The Power of Progress: How America's Progressives Can (Once Again) Save Our Economy, Our Climate, and Our Country,'' written with John Halpin, and published last summer.
Used to work as: Staff secretary and deputy chief of staff in the Clinton White House, as well as chief of staff. Mr. Podesta has also been an aide on Capitol Hill to Mr. Daschle and to Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont. He is now president of the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group that he founded in 2003 with help from George Soros and other financiers, and that has effectively been a government in exile for Democrats.
Carries as baggage: Is so closely identified with the Clintons that Democrats who want Mr. Obama to break cleanly with the past may be disappointed by the prominent role Mr. Podesta has been given in helping to assemble a new administration. He is considered by many Republicans to be a highly partisan figure whose bare-knuckled brand of political warfare belies the Obama mantra of ''new politics.''
Is otherwise known for: His obsession about U.F.O.'s and devotion to ''The X-Files.'' If anyone knows the truth about Roswell, N.M., it's Mr. Podesta. He is said to be the only White House chief of staff ever to appear on the Sci Fi Channel. A fanatic jogger and marathon runner also known as a master chef who once wrote a monthly cooking column in a Washington magazine. Also known for occasional dark moods that prompt friends and colleagues to refer to his ''evil twin, Skippy.''
Biography includes: Born Jan. 8, 1949, in Chicago, the grandson of Italian and Greek immigrants ... grew up in Chicago, graduated from Knox College in Illinois, and earned a law degree from Georgetown University Law Center ... was a partner with his brother, Tony, in a prominent Washington lobbying shop ... has three grown children and two grandchildren, and celebrated his 30th wedding anniversary on Election Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); FAMILY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); PETE ROUSE (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); GEORGE SOROS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



254 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words

 BODY:
A HAPPY HOLIDAY The financial turmoil that has hurt discretionary spending at many retailers, causing them to cut staff and discount merchandise, has sent struggling consumers into the arms of Wal-Mart, leaving it poised to have a blockbuster Christmas. 
 FALLING PAYCHECKS Wall Street bonuses are expected to plummet this year, but some are wondering why executives should get any bonus at all. [B1.]
 PRESIDENTIAL CHALLENGE Few presidents have entered office with an economy in such turmoil, and the president-elect faces crucial issues that economists say will test his administration. [B1.]
 Despite his detailed long-term agenda, the priority of Barack Obama will be on keeping the nation's economy from falling into a nasty recession. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.]
 The success of Barack Obama as president may depend on his willingness to follow in the steps of Ronald Reagan. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [B6.]
 The election produced a clamor for newspapers that publishers said they had never seen as papers pumped out extra copies by the thousands. [B10.]
 OPTING OUT Google said it would walk away from an ad partnership with Yahoo after the Justice Department said it was planning to file suit to block the deal. [B1.]
 BAGGAGE FEE Delta Air Lines, the nation's largest carrier, said it would impose a $15 fee to check a first bag for customers flying within the United States. [B2.]
 TECH ANSWER I.B.M.'s chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano, proposed a technology-fueled economic recovery plan that called for public and private investment in infrastructure projects. [B4.]
 REVENUE WARNING Cisco Systems, the maker of computer networking gear, warned that orders fell off abruptly in October, and it projected a large fall in sales in the current quarter. [B4.]
 NICKELS AND DIMES Saying credit card fees are hurting their profitability, some small-business owners are lobbying for relief. [B4.]
 LOWERED EXPECTATIONS The Bush administration damped hopes that an emergency summit meeting on the financial crisis would create an international market regulator. [B6.]
 FINANCIAL STIMULUS Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, below, defended her government's approval of a stimulus package of $29 billion, with tailored measures that were aimed at shoring up the country's economy amid a global slowdown. [B7.]
 BATTLING MARKETERS Technology can ease the fight against intrusive advertising that pops on the Internet, on television and in mailboxes. Basics. [B8.]
 CUTTING STEEL OUTPUT ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steelmaker, said it would cut production as demand waned. [B9.]
 NEVER-ENDING CAMPAIGN Ads tying into the end of the presidential race should not be a surprise. But the quick appearance of some was unexpected. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); AIRLINES (65%); CREDIT CARDS (65%); LOBBYING (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (61%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (61%); MT (PAR) (61%); MT (NYSE) (61%); MT (AMS) (61%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (61%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); SAMUEL PALMISANO (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



255 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: TENNESSEE: McCain

 BODY:
Black voters overwhelmingly supported the Democratic candidate, Robert D. Tuke, in the race to unseat Senator Lamar Alexander, a Republican, who carried the white vote. Mr. Tuke, a lawyer, was backed by voters who strongly disapproved of President Bush, while Mr. Alexander, a former Education Department secretary, was backed by those who gave the president high marks, according to exit polls. 
 Mr. Alexander's victory was, however, commanding. He bested Mr. Tuke and five other challengers in every other voting category, including age, income and educational attainment. 
 Tennesseans turned out in record numbers for Tuesday's election, drawn to the polls by the historic nature of the race and their concerns about the economy, which was the top issue in their minds, exit polls showed. But although Senator Barack Obama was able to capitalize on that dissatisfaction elsewhere in the country, in Tennessee, it translated into votes for Senator John McCain. 
 The state is reliably Republican, and the party seemed poised to retain its control of the state's Senate. It also won four of nine Congressional races, while Democratic candidates won the rest. One of them, Steve Cohen, Tennessee's first Jewish congressman, won re-election to represent a majority-black district that includes most of Memphis.

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESIDENT McCain ............. 1,470,160 57% 100% reporting Obama .............. 1,081,074 42% Other ..................... 33,001 1% SENATE Alexander (R) 1,571,585 65% 100% reporting Tuke (D) ............. 762,778 32% Other ..................... 77,544 3% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (74%); STEVE COHEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (75%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



256 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Whole Foods Sells 17% Stake to Private Firm

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
A private equity firm is buying a 17 percent stake in Whole Foods Market, a much-needed vote of confidence for a chain that is being battered by increased competition and a weak economy. 
 The news came as the company announced a huge drop in fourth-quarter earnings amid sputtering sales.
 Under the terms of the agreement, Green Equity Investors, an affiliate of Los Angeles-based Leonard Green & Partners, will invest $425 million in the company.
 ''We view it as a strong vote of confidence in our business model and our long-term growth prospects despite the tough current economic environment,'' said John P. Mackey, co-founder and chief executive of Whole Foods, in a call with investors on Wednesday. ''This equity infusion, combined with our strong cash flow from operations, gives us the financial flexibility to manage through these difficult economic times.''
 The announcement, made after the close of trading Wednesday, sent Whole Foods stock up nearly 20 percent in after-hours trading to more than $12. The company's stock is down by more than 70 percent since the first of the year.
 It was not too long ago that Whole Foods, based in Austin, Tex., was a darling of Wall Street and routinely registered double-digit growth in comparable store sales, a common industry measure of the health of stores.
 But the company has been battered by competition from traditional grocery stores that have expanded their offerings of organic and natural foods. It is also offering more discounts and private-label merchandise. At the same time, consumers are trading down to cheaper products and discount stores.
 As part of the agreement, which is expected to close within 30 days, Jonathan D. Sokoloff, a managing partner of the private equity firm and a colleague, Jonathan A. Seiffer, intend to join Whole Foods' board.
 Mr. Mackey said comparable store sales increased 0.4 percent in the quarter, which ended Sept. 28, compared with 8.2 percent for the same period a year ago. The trend worsened in the next five weeks, with comparable store sales down 2.1 percent through Sunday.
 Profit for the quarter was $1.5 million, compared with $34 million a year ago. The drop was partly related to costs associated with its merger with Wild Oats Markets, lease terminations and other charges.
 ''We believe our core customers remain committed to Whole Foods,'' Mr. Mackey said. ''However, the unrelenting negative economic news appears to be shifting buying behavior to making fewer trips and to making more value-conscious decisions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%); LEONARD GREEN & PARTNERS LP (58%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN P MACKEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



257 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: A Time for Shrinking Budgets

 BODY:
There was something odd about Mayor Michael Bloomberg's timing -- when the world was riveted on the results of the presidential election. But New York City's mayor was certainly doing the right thing when he began preparing New Yorkers for the sobering reality of what the Wall Street nightmare will do to the city's budget and public services. 
 Declaring that the bad news from Wall Street will require sacrifices from every New Yorker, Mr. Bloomberg said that to save about $250 million, he wants to eliminate the popular $400 property tax rebate checks that usually reach city homeowners in October. 
 And he wants City Council to begin collecting a 7 percent property tax increase in January instead of June, which would produce an additional $600 million in revenue. He also plans to cut the city's work force of more than 350,000 by 3,000 employees.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who just won the City Council's approval to run for a third term, is clearly trying to get as much of the hard budgeting done before next year's elections. He also is preparing the Council for the probability that if the economy gets worse, the city will need more tax increases before next year's vote. 
 If Mr. Bloomberg's proposals don't plug the projected $4 billion shortfall over the next two years, the mayor may have to propose an income tax surcharge.
 New taxes, of course, should be the last resort. For one thing, the city can only raise the rate for property taxes on its own. Authority for any other tax increase would have to come from Albany, where Gov. David Paterson is wrestling with his own nightmare deficit projection of $47 billion over the next four years. 
 Some lawmakers in the city and in Albany are suggesting that things aren't really as bad as Mr. Bloomberg is saying. They think rainy-day funds and other pools of money can plug the city's gaps without requiring sacrifices from residents. 
 That is shortsighted, at best. Mayor Bloomberg has maneuvered New York City through one recession. We believe he has a good sense of how to help New York weather this one -- even if that means politicians have to make tough and unpopular decisions before an election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MAYORS (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



258 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Emerge for Obama's Inner Circle: Rahm Emanuel

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration.
Name:Rahm Emanuel 
Chosen for: Has accepted Mr. Obama's offer to be the White House chief of staff.
Will bring to the job: An unusual hybrid of high-level experience as a top adviser to President Bill Clinton together with proven expertise as a Congressional leader and political strategist. Mr. Emanuel is also a close friend of Mr. Obama, a fellow Chicagoan.
As the No. 4 Democrat in the House and an architect of the Democratic majority, Mr. Emanuel knows Congress from the inside out after winning his seat in 2002. In the Clinton administration, he was aggressive, frequently profane and instrumental in shaping domestic policy on issues like health care, welfare and trade.
He earned the nickname Rahmbo for his determination and take-no-prisoners approach -- an advantage when trying to bring a thorny issue to resolution, but a style that can be off-putting to those accustomed to gentility. In resigning his seat, Mr. Emanuel will be relinquishing a promising House career and aspirations to become speaker.
Is linked to Obama by: His Second City roots (Mr. Emanuel represents a slice of the north side of Chicago and adjoining suburbs) and his ties to the family of Mayor Richard M. Daley, which has been a source of support, guidance and experience for Mr. Emanuel, who was initially known for his fund-raising skills.
Mr. Obama has been close to Mr. Emanuel since arriving on Capitol Hill; Mr. Emanuel considers David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's chief strategist, to be one of his closest friends. The three share a common policy view and would make a formidable triumvirate in the White House. Mr. Emanuel found himself under pressure during the Democratic presidential primaries to back Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, given his relationship with her husband. But he stayed neutral and ultimately endorsed Mr. Obama.
In his own words:''We're going to put in front of the American people the fundamental question of this election: Who's going to change the economic policies in Washington that resulted in a lower standard of living for middle-class families?'' From an Obama campaign conference call with reporters on Sept. 12, 2008.
Used to work as: An investment banker for three years after leaving the White House and before being elected to the House. He banked $16 million while handling mergers and acquisitions with an emphasis on utilities. In his youth, Mr. Emanuel badly cut a finger on a meat slicer while working at an Arby's. The wound became infected, and he lost half of the middle finger on his right hand. The shortened digit is something of a trademark.
Carries as baggage: Mr. Emanuel's stint in high finance and his experience in the banking world opens him to some criticism of being too allied with Wall Street, not the image Democrats want to cultivate these days. Critics have asserted he was only able to succeed in the banking world because of his political connections. Since he is part of the Daley circle, Mr. Emanuel's appointment as chief of staff could also create the appearance of a White House that is too Chicago heavy. His manner can also create enemies, and Mr. Emanuel has ruffled the feathers of many on Capitol Hill, particularly black and Hispanic lawmakers.
Is otherwise known for: Training as a ballet dancer. And his brother, Ari Emanuel, a Hollywood agent, is the model for the abrasive agent Ari Gold in the HBO series ''Entourage.''
Biography includes: Born Nov. 29, 1959, in Chicago ... liberal arts degree from Sarah Lawrence College, masters from Northwestern ... married to Amy Rule, three children ... a regular swimmer and a voracious reader, using his hours aboard airplanes to consume books ... served briefly as a civilian volunteer on an Israeli military base during the Persian Gulf war of 1991.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FAMILY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); FUNDRAISING (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RAHM EMANUEL (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



259 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Perfecting the Union

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
Beyond Iraq, beyond the economy, beyond health care, there was something even more fundamental at stake in this U.S. election won by Barack Obama: the self-respect of the American people. 
 For almost eight years, Americans have seen words stripped of meaning, lives sacrificed to confront nonexistent Iraqi weapons and other existences ravaged by serial incompetence on an epic scale. 
 Against all this, Obama made a simple bet and stuck to it. If you trusted in the fundamental decency, civility and good sense of the American people, even at the end of a season of fear and loss, you could forge a new politics and win the day. 
 Four years ago, at the Democratic convention, in the speech that lifted him from obscurity, Obama said: ''For alongside our famous individualism, there's another ingredient in the American saga: a belief that we are connected as one people.'' 
 He never wavered from that theme. ''In this country, we rise or fall as one nation, as one people,'' he declared Tuesday night in his victory speech to a joyous crowd in Chicago.
 In that four-year span, Obama never got angry. Without breaking a sweat, he took down two of the most ruthless political machines on the planet: first the Clintons and then the Republican Party. 
 An idea has power. John McCain had many things in this campaign, but an idea was not one of them. At a time of economic crisis, he could not order his thoughts about it. Hard-hit Ohio drew its decisive conclusions. It was not alone. 
 McCain flailed, opting on a whim for a sidekick, Sarah Palin, who personified the very ''country-first'' intolerance and Bush-like small-mindedness of which many Americans had grown as weary as the world has. 
 Gracious in defeat, McCain seemed almost relieved, free to return to himself and escape the rabid fringes of Republicanism. 
 Obama's idea, put simply, was that America can be better than it has been. It can reach beyond post-9/11 anger and fear to embody once more what the world still craves from the American idea: hope. 
 America can mean what it says. It can respect its friends and probe its enemies before it tries to shock and awe them. It can listen. It can rediscover the commonwealth beyond the frenzied individualism that took down Wall Street. 
 I know, these are mere words. They will not right the deficit or disarm an enemy. But words count. That has been a lesson of the Bush years. 
 You can't proclaim freedom as you torture. You can't promote democracy as you disappear people. You can't stand for the rule of law and strip prisoners of basic rights. You can't dispense with the transparency and regulation essential to modern capital markets and hope still to be the beacon of free enterprise. 
 Or rather, you can do all these things, but then you find yourself alone. 
 Obama will reinvest words with meaning. That is the basis of everything. And an American leader able to improvise a grammatical, even a moving, English sentence is no bad thing. Americans, in the inevitable recession ahead, will have a leader who can summon their better natures rather than speak, as Bush has, to their spite. 
 I voted in Brooklyn. There was a two-hour line. I got to talking to the woman behind me. I told her that as a naturalized American I was voting for the first time. When I emerged from the voting booth the woman said: ''Congratulations.: 
 That single word said a lot about citizenship as an idea and a responsibility, rather than a thing of blood or ethnicity or race. 
 And it occurred to me that Obama's core conviction about the American saga -- his belief in the connectedness of all Americans -- stemmed from his own unlikely experience of American transformation. 
 A Kenyan father passing briefly through these shores; a chance encounter with a young Kansan woman; a biracial boy handed off here and there but fortunate at least in the accident of Hawaiian birth. 
 Obama has spoken without cease about his conviction of American possibility born from this experience. He intuited that, after years of the debasement of so many core American ideas, a case for what the preamble to the U.S. Constitution calls ''a more perfect union'' would resonate. 
 He was rarely explicit about race, although he spoke of slavery as America's ''original sin.'' He did not need to be. At a time of national soul-searching, what could better symbolize a ''more perfect union'' and the overcoming of the wounds of that original sin than the election to the White House of an African-American?
 And what stronger emblem could be offered to the world of an American renewal startling enough to challenge the assumptions of every state on earth? 
 The other day I got an e-mail message saying simply this: Rosa Parks sat in 1955. Martin Luther King walked in 1963. Barack Obama ran in 2008. That our children might fly. 
 Tough days lie ahead. But it's a moment to dream. Americans have earned that right, along with the renewed respect of the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008



260 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: A Once-United G.O.P. Emerges, in Identity Crisis

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS

 BODY:
One by one, prized Republican strongholds fell Tuesday night and yesterday. Ohio and Indiana, Florida and Virginia, Colorado and Nevada -- all succumbed to Senator Barack Obama. And for conservatives it was as disorienting a day as any in the history of the movement that has been a dominant force in shaping modern American politics.
One thing was clear: the Republican Party was no longer the party of George W. Bush. But exactly whose party was it, and whose should it become? Senator John McCain never quite succeeded in presenting a coherent alternative version. Can someone else do better?
The answers that have emerged so far reflect the party's current confusion. A coalition once notable for its disciplined unity is now threatened by sectarian rifts that could widen significantly in the weeks ahead. Already, neoconservative defense hawks are pitted against isolationists, libertarian antitax brigades resist the values-driven politics of social conservatives, and the party's intellectuals operate at a growing remove from the base. 
Consider the case of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. To some conservatives -- including several scheduled to attend a brainstorming meeting in Virginia on Thursday -- Ms. Palin represents the party's fresh-faced future. She personifies the values of small-town evangelicals, and her Western style lends piquancy to her populist mockery of Beltway elites and what she has called ''the permanent political establishment.''
And yet that establishment includes Republicans like Colin Powell, Mr. Bush's former secretary of state, and Kenneth M. Duberstein, Ronald Reagan's final White House chief of staff, both of whom voiced their dismay at Ms. Palin's presence on the ticket and declared their support for Mr. Obama shortly before Election Day.
Meanwhile, party operatives, crunching the unfriendly numbers, are rethinking the red state versus blue state election model mastered by tacticians like Karl Rove. Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, wants the party to redirect its energies toward voters in the populous states of the Northeast and the Great Lakes region. James Greer, the Republican chairman of Florida, believes the party must adjust to changing demographics. ''The party needs to focus on Hispanic voters and African-American voters,'' Mr. Greer told The New York Times. ''It is the future of the Republican Party.''
But the hunt for votes is only part of the problem. There is, more fundamentally, the question of what the two parties have to say and how they say it. Longstanding ideological debates, in particular, seem increasingly irrelevant and out of date.
It may well be that some of Mr. Obama's positions are to the left of the nation's at large -- as Mr. McCain and others asserted time and again. But it may also be that most Americans do not much care. What seems to have impressed them is Mr. Obama's attunement to the problems afflicting the country and the hope he offered that they might be solved.
If so, then Republicans may have to jettison some of the most familiar items on their agenda. ''The issues that have provided conservatives with victories in the past -- particularly welfare and crime -- have been rendered irrelevant by success,'' Michael Gerson, the Bush speechwriter turned columnist, wrote last week. ''The issues of the moment -- income stagnation, climate disruption, massive demographic shifts and health care access -- seem strange, unexplored land for many in the movement.''
In fact these ''issues of the moment'' have been with us for years now, decades in some instances, but until recently they were either ignored by conservatives or dismissed as the hobby-horses of alarmist liberals or entrenched ''special interests.''
The key word in Mr. Gerson's analysis is ''movement,'' a term more applicable to moral or spiritual crusades than to the practical matters of governance, particularly governance in a two-party system, where success almost invariably requires compromise, consensus and a mind open to all manner of workable solutions.
These have not been, historically, the strength of ''movement conservatives,'' who prefer arguments built on first principles often expressed in supercharged rhetoric. ''Conservatives seem to have a genius for winning the all-important semantic battles,'' the policy thinker and journalist Richard N. Goodwin wrote in 1967. ''Anti-union laws become 'right to work'; national health insurance becomes 'socialized medicine.' ''
Some 40 years later, there are conservatives who still inveigh against the perils of socialized medicine. In the last weeks of the campaign, Mr. Obama was repeatedly labeled a ''socialist'' -- a word all but emptied of meaning today when nations like China and Russia have lustily embraced the free market even as a Republican president proposes a $700 billion bailout of failing Wall Street firms. And yet even after Tuesday's results, some were still clinging to the old rhetoric. An Obama presidency will ''deliver socialism, something too many of his supporters never saw coming,'' L. Brent Bozell, one of the expected participants in the Virginia meeting, wrote Wednesday on National Review online.
But if movement politics disdains nuance, its insistence on ''core'' principles lends steel to its adherents, who are inclined to regard all defeats, even major ones, as temporary setbacks.
This highlights a profound temperamental difference between the parties. The Democrats, more inclined in recent decades to pragmatism, have tended to bow to popular will even in close elections. President Bush, though he lost the popular vote in 2000 and though many believed that the Florida recount was unjustly halted by the Supreme Court, nonetheless had little trouble pushing his first initiatives through Congress, including one of the largest tax cuts in history.
When Mr. Reagan was elected in 1980, he probably stood farther to the right of the public of his time than Mr. Obama stands to its left today. Only two years before, in the Congressional election of 1978, Democrats held on to substantial majorities in both houses of Congress, despite the troubled leadership of President Jimmy Carter. And there was little tangible evidence that voters had embraced the supply-side economics that became a cornerstone of Reaganism.
But when Republicans achieved a slight majority in the Senate to go along with the Reagan landslide, Democrats, still in the majority in the House, accepted much of his agenda, in deference to the public's will and also in recognition that a new era in politics had arrived.
This history forms a telling contrast with 1992, when Bill Clinton amassed an impressive total of electoral votes, 370, and went to Washington with large majorities in the Senate and House. Owing to the third-party candidacy of Ross Perot, Mr. Clinton received only 43 percent of the popular vote -- still 5 percent higher than the incumbent, the first President Bush, and a more conclusive victory than the younger Mr. Bush achieved in 2004. But conservatives sensed weakness, and the Republican Senate leader at the time, Bob Dole, put Mr. Clinton on notice.
''He didn't get a majority,'' Mr. Dole said the next day. The country, he added, ''had plenty of doubts about Clinton. They want change. Well, we want to be responsible and deliver change, whatever that means, but we're skeptical so we'll wait and see.''
This set the tone for Mr. Clinton's presidency, which remained embattled for two terms. Mr. Dole repeatedly used the filibuster to thwart Mr. Clinton, and in his second term Mr. Clinton was locked in a war with Newt Gingrich, the Republican speaker of the House, who for a time appeared to be the dominant partner in their uneasy relationship.
Mr. Obama has an advantage: He attained both a majority of the popular vote and a strong electoral victory.
The topics scheduled for the conservative conference on Thursday, according to one participant, include a discussion of how to rebuild a ''national grass-roots political and policy coalition'' modeled on the one conservatives put together in the 1970s, when in the waning days of liberal hegemony, Beltway organizations like the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage Foundation extruded position papers, and publications like The Public Interest and Commentary became citadels of conservative ideology. Movements are conditioned to absorb setbacks and losses. Tuesday's election is the latest, and probably not the last. It has given the Republican Party a fresh challenge -- one it has not shied from in the past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A resident of Lafayette, Ind., in reflection in window, protesting against Republicans on Monday at the courthouse and party offices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.P1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); RELIGION (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



261 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Russian President Sends Obama Warning on European Missile System

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia greeted his future American counterpart, Senator Barack Obama, with bristling language on Wednesday, promising to place short-range missiles on Russia's western border if Washington proceeded with its planned missile defense system in Eastern Europe.
In a speech to the Federal Assembly, Mr. Medvedev said Russia had ''no inherent conflict with America'' and invited the new administration to start afresh with Moscow. However, he did not congratulate Mr. Obama on the election he had won only hours before, or even mention him by name.
Later in the day, the Kremlin announced that Mr. Medvedev had sent Mr. Obama a congratulatory telegram.
The speech -- which was rescheduled twice in recent weeks for revisions as the financial crisis worsened -- showed Mr. Medvedev asserting himself with concrete plans, including a proposal to lengthen the presidential term to six years from four. He harshly condemned state interference in civil society, calling for reforms that seemed to have been deferred by a string of crises this fall. 
''The state bureaucracy, as 20 years ago, is being guided by the same old mistrust in the free individual and in free enterprise,'' he said, in a state of the nation address that has been a tradition since 1994. ''A strong state and an all-powerful bureaucracy is not the same thing. The former is an instrument which society needs to develop, to maintain order and strengthens democratic institutions. The latter is extremely dangerous.''
Mr. Medvedev also proposed new rules that would allow opposition parties marginally more representation in Parliament, challenging the consolidation of power that was the trademark of his predecessor, Vladimir V. Putin, who is now the prime minister. He also proposed granting slightly more self-determination in local administrations.
''He showed that he wants to be a real president,'' said Konstantin V. Remchukov, editor in chief of the Independent Newspaper, a respected Moscow daily.
Sergei A. Karaganov, a prominent Russian political scientist, said he was ''amazed'' to hear Mr. Medvedev committing to liberalization at a time of crisis.
''It went against the wind,'' Mr. Karaganov said. ''At this juncture, we just need to see whether he follows up on it.''
As the speech approached, Mr. Medvedev faced intense pressure to calm nerves in Russia, crippled this fall by capital flight, a plunge in the stock market and a precipitous drop in oil prices. Mr. Putin typically gave the speech in the spring, using it to announce crowd-pleasing investments in infrastructure projects and social welfare programs.
Mr. Medvedev, by contrast, had to address the two shocks that had befallen Russia since he became president, the financial crisis and the war in Georgia, while combating the impression that Mr. Putin retained control over major decisions.
The speech he gave Wednesday, originally planned for Oct. 23, gave scant information about the government's economic strategy going forward. It did, however, squarely lay blame for Russia's troubles on the United States.
Mr. Medvedev said that American regulators had inflated a financial bubble and that the ensuing collapse ''carried in its downfall to the trajectory of recession all financial markets of the planet.'' He also said Washington had started the war in Georgia, saying, ''Tskhinvali's tragedy is, among other things, the result of the arrogant course of the U.S. administration, which hates criticism and prefers unilateral decisions.''
But it was the planned missile deployment, a possible early foreign policy test for Mr. Obama, that captured attention in the West on Wednesday.
Mr. Medvedev described specific measures Moscow would take if Washington went ahead with a plan to station a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic. He said Russia would post mobile Iskander missiles -- tactical weapons designed for use against targets like long-range artillery and airfields, in addition to missile defense systems -- around Kaliningrad, an enclave at Russia's western border. He also said Russia would use radio equipment to jam the Western missile defense system.
''These are forced measures,'' he said. ''We have told our partners more than once that we want positive cooperation, we want to act together to combat common threats. But they, unfortunately, don't want to listen to us.''
Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, responded sharply in a telephone interview to Mr. Medvedev's pledge on missiles, calling it ''literally and figuratively misguided.''
''The Russians know full well that our European missile defense system is not capable of defeating their enormous ballistic missile arsenal,'' Mr. Morrell said with evident frustration. ''Rather, it is meant to counter Iran's growing missile threat. And we have bent over backwards to invite the Russians to partner with us to defeat this common threat.''
Speaking more broadly, another senior Bush administration official said the tone of the address ''follows a line of attributing blame for things to outsiders, to the U.S.''
The second official, who would speak only on condition of anonymity because of the need to maintain relations with Moscow, said it was no accident that the speech was scheduled for the day after the presidential election.
''The day the U.S. gets a new president, it's more important for them to make sure Russians hear what the Russian president says in his State of the Federation speech,'' this senior official said. ''It's because it's all about them. They have to find an outside villain to offset the criticism they are starting to hear about their handling of the economy.''
Other analysts agreed that the timing of the confrontational speech was not coincidental. Russian elites have staked their hopes on a victory by Mr. Obama, viewing him as a far friendlier negotiating partner than his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain.
''This is a warning, this is a clear warning,'' said Alexander Rahr, director of the Russian/Eurasian program at the German Council on Foreign Relations. ''I think they want to show that Russia is important and we want a multipolar world.''
Clifford Kupchan, a Russia expert at the Eurasia Group, a consultancy in Washington, said the chilly rhetoric was to be expected ''in the context of a really bad relationship.''
''When a relationship is this troubled, you wait for concrete steps from the new guy,'' Mr. Kupchan said. ''You wait to see if his policy will be any better than the old one.''
In one of his biggest applause lines, Mr. Medvedev said Russia's policy in Georgia expressed treasured values.
''There are things which cannot be traded off, there are things for which it's necessary to fight and triumph,'' he said. ''This is what is dear to you, which is dear to me, to all of us. Something we cannot imagine our country without. This is why we shall not retreat in the Caucasus.''
For domestic audiences, among the biggest news was the proposed extension of the president's term by two years. After Mr. Medvedev made his speech, Kremlin spokesmen told the Interfax news agency that the change to Russia's Constitution would not require a vote, and that it would not apply to incumbent politicians.
Political observers were left to puzzle it out: Why would Mr. Medvedev push for a reform that would have no relevance for another eight years? The obvious answer, Mr. Rahr said, is that Mr. Putin is planning a quick return to his old job.
''Otherwise, it makes no sense,'' he said. ''A president in power for four months? This is not only foolish, this is completely impossible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russian soldiers in historical uniforms rehearsedWednesday in Moscow for a parade on Friday. Nerves have been frayed because of financial problems and the recent war in Georgia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 TV sets in a Moscow store showed President Dmitri A. Medvedev's speech on Wednesday, in which he spoke of liberalization.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



262 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: In Rust Belt, Voters Driven by Despair

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama's victory was widely attributed to fears about the economy, and nowhere was that more apparent than in his decisive performance in the Rust Belt. 
 Years of manufacturing job losses, topped by home foreclosures, sunken retirement savings and concerns about new losses even of lower-paying jobs helped add up to a blue presidential landscape all around.
Mr. Obama seized Ohio and Michigan, once seen as potentially competitive. And, most surprisingly, Indiana, which President Bush won by 21 percentage points in 2004 and which had been so safely Republican for four decades that few presidential candidates bothered to go there, narrowly chose Mr. Obama, too. 
 ''You can feel the anxiety here,'' said Bill Treadway, the Republican chairman of Vigo County, once a manufacturing-dominated community on the western edge of Indiana where Mr. Obama won 57 percent of the vote on Tuesday. Vigo (which prides itself as an almost perfect bellwether for the nation's presidential choice since the late 1800s) had sided with Mr. Bush in the previous two elections. ''You see vacant homes that can't be sold and people worried about their 401(k)'s. The country was in a bad mood. I don't know how else to see it.''
 Still, as state and local officials from both parties absorbed Mr. Obama's victories throughout the industrial Midwest (aside from Missouri, where Senator John McCain was slightly ahead in a race still too close to call), they said they were still wrestling with how far the Democratic Party's reach had expanded beyond the presidential race and how lasting the moment's widespread swath of blue might be.
 Some Democrats pointed to Mr. Obama's personal appeal, particularly in the contested states that surround his home state, Illinois, and his campaign's efforts, especially at bringing out voters in urban areas like Cincinnati and Columbus, as creating a unique set of circumstances. While Democrats secured new House seats in Michigan and Ohio, other Congressional seats in Minnesota and Indiana that had been seen as vulnerable for Republicans turned out not to be. There were other mixed signs: In Indiana, despite Mr. Obama's remarkable victory, Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, easily held back a Democratic challenger. 
 ''We're not as partisan a state or as ideological a state as we are pragmatists,'' said Senator Evan Bayh, a Democrat. ''The economy was terrible, and moderate Republicans and independents just wanted a change.'' 
 Whether the shift in Indiana is lasting, he said, will depend in part on how Washington now solves the financial crisis and on whether Democrats, in his view, misinterpret Tuesday's results as a ''vote for left-wing politics'' as opposed to ''the sensible center.''
 For the moment, though, Democrats were cheering the view from former battlegrounds in the Midwest, where Wisconsin (thanks, in part, to the 90 percent of its voters, according to exit polls, who said they were worried about the economy's direction) and Iowa (where Mr. Obama had set up an early, elaborate and fiercely proud campaign operation) both went overwhelmingly for Mr. Obama. 
 Hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs have vanished from Indiana, Ohio and Michigan since Mr. Bush's election eight years ago, Democrats said. 
 ''Whatever else there is to say, it is still striking how much more blue there is now in this part of the world,'' said Steffen W. Schmidt, a professor of political science at Iowa State University. ''And when it comes down to it, you have to come back to the essential economic factor.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); US 401K PLANS (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); LIBERALISM (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); EVAN BAYH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); MITCH DANIELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) INDIANA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



263 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: In a Decisive Victory, Obama Reshapes the Electoral Map

BYLINE: By ERIN AIGNER, JOE BURGESS, BADEN COPELAND, MATTHEW ERICSON, HANNAH FAIRFIELD, FORD FESSENDEN, HAEYOUN PARK and ARCHIE TSE

 BODY:
Barack Obama's historic win, with at least 349 electoral votes to John McCain's 162, can be attributed to his victories in several high-population states, like Florida, Virginia and Ohio, that George W. Bush won handily in 2004. The struggling economy, especially in more industrial states, and high numbers of new voters helped flip key areas from red to blue. Even where Mr. McCain beat Mr. Obama, he won by slimmer margins, as much of the electorate -- across age, race and income lines -- swung toward the Democratic Party. 
 Margins of Victory
Circles show the winning candidate's vote margin in each county. Mr. Obama picked up large margins in urban areas, while Mr. McCain picked up smaller margins in large numbers of rural counties.
 Riley County, Kan.
 This small county in red Kansas saw a trend repeated in other college towns: A 27-percent increase in votes for the Democratic candidate. Orlando, Fla.
 Fast-growing Orange County was close in 2000 and 2004, but it has become a Democratic stronghold. Mr. Obama scored a muscular 85,000-vote margin.
 Scranton, Pa.
 One of Hillary Clinton's best primary counties, Lackawanna County, rebuffed Mr. McCain and embraced Mr. Obama.
 Philadelphia
 Mr. Obama beat Mr. Kerry's record of 540,000 votes in Philadelphia by 30,000.
 New Voters, New Power Bases
 Mr. Obama's campaign theme of change created a groundswell of support in areas of the country hurt by the weakened economy. Rising unemployment and housing foreclosures in Rust Belt states, as well as Florida and Nevada, may have led voters to support Mr. Obama.
 A powerful get-out-the-vote effort paid off for the Obama campaign in certain crucial states, like Florida, Colorado and Nevada. The number of people who voted in Florida rose by 9.7 percent from 2004. Many of those voters went to the polls for the first time -- and those voters chose Mr. Obama nearly 70 percent of the time.
 Voter figures were also high in states won by Mr. McCain, like South Carolina, Georgia and Alabama.
 Turnout may have been a defining factor in Indiana, a battleground state that had 5.3 percent more voters than in 2004. It awarded a narrow victory, and its 11 electoral votes, to Mr. Obama.
 Shifting Demographics
 The electorate moved toward the Democratic Party across nearly every demographic category. Many shifts were a few percentage points, but several categories had much higher jumps. One exception to the trend: low-income white counties moved solidly toward the Republican side. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS(Sources: Historical results from Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 2008 results from Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); TRENDS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STATISTICS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009



264 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Wary of Global Downturn, Toyota Cuts Profit Forecast by More Than Half

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Toyota Motor slashed its annual profit forecast by more than half on Thursday, warning of a long and severe downturn in global auto markets.
 Toyota, the largest Japanese automaker, also reported that net profit in the three months that ended Sept. 30 dropped by more than two-thirds, hurt by falling demand, a tightening of car loans as credit dried up globally and a strengthening Japanese currency. 
 The cut in the annual profit forecast was larger than most analysts had expected, and such a drop would end eight consecutive years of profit growth at Toyota, underscoring how the crisis is hurting Japan's once mighty automakers. Of Japan's eight automakers, only one, Fuji Heavy, the maker of Subaru, has not lowered its annual profit forecast recently. 
 ''The severity of the current situation is like nothing we have seen before,'' Mitsuo Kinoshita, a Toyota executive vice president, said. ''The global financial crisis has affected the real economy, and the auto markets, particularly in developed countries, are contracting rapidly.''
 ''It is difficult to predict when it will end,'' he added.
 While Toyota released earnings after the close of stock trading, fears of sharply lower earnings drove its share price down 10.4 percent.
 The lowered forecast was the latest sign that the recession that began in the United States was spreading, threatening even fast-growing markets like India and China, once seen as immune to an American downturn. 
 While Toyota recorded growth in Asia and other developing areas, it was not enough to overcome steep declines in the developed markets of North America, Japan and Europe.
 ''This is another sign of the collapse of the decoupling theory,'' said Yasuaki Iwamoto, an auto analyst at Okasan Securities in Tokyo. ''The whole world is down because of the North America troubles. That hurts even a company with a more global revenue base, like Toyota.''
 Toyota said it expected net profit of 550 billion yen ($5.6 billion), for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009, down 56 percent from its earlier forecast of 1.25 trillion yen. That would be the company's lowest profit in nine years, and about a third of the 1.72 trillion yen net that it earned last year.
 Toyota also cut its annual sales forecast by 2 trillion yen, to 23 trillion yen. That would be down from sales of 26.3 trillion yen last year. Toyota said net profit in the July to September quarter fell 69 percent, to 139.8 billion yen. 
 The grim earnings report came just days after Toyota announced that October sales in the critical United States market had fallen 23 percent compared with last year. The slowdown has hit American rivals even harder, with General Motors reporting a 45 percent decline in October.
 On Thursday, Toyota reported an operating loss of 34.6 billion yen in North America in the six months through September, when its sales there dropped 20 percent. That helped offset gains in Asia, where operating profit rose 17 percent, to 137.2 billion yen, the company said.
 Toyota was also hurt by rising costs of steel and other raw materials, as well as a stronger yen, which erodes value in Japan of overseas earnings and makes Japanese products more expensive abroad. Toyota also cited intensifying global competition in lower-cost vehicles.
 On Thursday, the chief executive of rival Honda Motor, Takeo Fukui, called on the Japanese authorities to intervene and help drive down the yen, which has risen to about 98 yen to the dollar, from about 120 a year ago. 
 Such pleas for government help have also been echoed by Detroit's Big Three, which are lobbying Congress for more aid atop $25 billion in low-interest loans already promised.
 The global slowdown has struck Toyota just as it finishes introducing a full lineup of vehicles, including larger eight-cylinder models like its Tundra pickup truck, in a bid to overtake G.M. as the world's largest automaker. Thursday's results suggested the slowdown was hurting sales of Toyota's entire lineup, including popular, fuel-efficient models like its hybrid Prius and Camry sedan. 
 Analysts expect Toyota to cut costs and shift more production and parts sourcing to local markets. Toyota has already delayed new factories, laid off workers and offered ever-sweeter incentives to entice buyers back into showrooms.
 On Thursday, Mr. Kinoshita said the company had formed a special committee headed by its president, Katsuaki Watanabe, to find ways to address the harsh environment, like cost-cutting and developing competitive new vehicles like its supercompact car iQ, which it unveiled recently. 
 Worldwide, the company said it expected to sell 8.24 million vehicles in this fiscal year, down 7.6 percent from the prior year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toyotas ready for shipment. Analysts expect Toyota to shift more production to local markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (96%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (93%); OKASAN SECURITIES GROUP INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (93%); TM (NYSE) (93%); 7203 (TSE) (93%); 8609 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



265 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Hurting for Business

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
In another sign of the economy's toll on the nation's health care system, some hospitals say they are seeing fewer paying patients -- even as greater numbers of people are showing up at emergency rooms unable to pay their bills. 
 While the full effects of the downturn are likely to become more evident in coming months as more people lose their jobs and their insurance coverage, some hospitals say they are already experiencing a fall-off in patient admissions. 
 Some patients with insurance seem to be deferring treatments like knee replacements, hernia repairs and weight-loss surgeries -- the kind of procedures that are among the most lucrative to hospitals. Just as consumers are hesitant to make any sort of big financial decision right now, some patients may feel too financially insecure to take time off work or spend what could be thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses for elective treatments. 
 The possibility of putting off an expensive surgery or other major procedure has now become a frequent topic of conversation with patients, said Dr. Ted Epperly, a family practice doctor in Boise, Idaho, who also serves as president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. For some patients, he said, it is a matter of choosing between such fundamental needs as food and gas and their medical care. ''They wait,'' he said. 
 The loss of money-making procedures comes at a difficult time for hospitals because these treatments tend to subsidize the charity care and unpaid medical bills that are increasing as a result of the slow economy.
 ''The numbers are down in the past month, there's no question about it,'' said Dr. Richard Friedman, a surgeon at Beth Israel Medical Center in New York, although he said it said it was too early to call the decline a trend.
 But many hospitals are responding quickly to a perceived change in their circumstances. Shands HealthCare, a nonprofit Florida hospital system, cited the poor economy and lower patient demand when it announced last month that it would shutter one of its eight hospitals and move patients and staff to its nearby facilities. 
 The 367-bed hospital that is closing, in Gainesville, lost $12 million last year, said Timothy Goldfarb, the system's chief executive. ''We cannot carry it anymore,'' he said. 
 Some other hospitals, while saying they have not yet seen actual declines in patient admissions, have tried to curb costs by cutting jobs in recent weeks in anticipation of harder times. That includes prominent institutions like Massachusetts General in Boston and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, as well as smaller systems like Sunrise Health in Las Vegas. 
 ''It's safe to say hospitals are no longer recession-proof,'' said David A. Rock, a health care consultant in New York.
 A September survey of 112 nonprofit hospitals by a Citi Investment Research analyst, Gary Taylor, found that overall inpatient admissions were down 2 to 3 percent compared with a year earlier. About 62 percent of the hospitals in the survey reported flat or declining patient admissions. 
 Separately, HCA, the Nashville chain that operates about 160 for-profit hospitals around the country, reported flat admissions for the three months ended Sept. 30 compared with the period a year earlier, and a slight decline in inpatient surgeries. 
 Many people are probably going to the hospital only when they absolutely need to. ''The only way they are going to tap the health care system is through the emergency room,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 And now, as the economy has slid more steeply toward recession in recent weeks, patient admissions seem to have declined even more sharply, some hospital industry experts say. ''What we have not seen through midyear this year is the dramatic slowdown in volume we're seeing right now,'' said Scot Latimer, a consultant with Kurt Salmon Associates, which works closely with nonprofit hospitals. 
 While the drop-off in patient admissions may still seem relatively slight, hospital executives and consultants say it is already having a profound impact on many hospitals' profitability. As fewer paying customers show up, there has been a steady increase in the demand for services by patients without insurance or other financial wherewithal, many of whom show up at hospital emergency rooms -- which are legally obliged to treat them. 
 ''It's disproportionately affecting the bottom line,'' Mr. Latimer said.
 In California, for example, the amount of bad debt and charity care among hospitals has been steadily climbing, to $7.1 billion last year from about $5.8 billion in 2005. Those numbers could approach $8 billion for 2008, according to an analysis by Kurt Salmon.
 The situation is exposing a main vulnerability of the nation's hospital care system, which executives say relies heavily on private insurance to subsidize certain services. When there is a decline in profitable procedures paid for by private insurance, hospitals have less money to offset the relatively lower fees they receive from government insurance programs like Medicare and Medicaid. 
 ''What happens in our country is that there's really a hidden tax built in,'' said Richard L. Gundling, an executive with a trade group for hospital financial executives, the Healthcare Financial Management Association. ''Hospitals have to balance the mix of patients in order to survive.'' 
 The amount of charity care provided by Shands HealthCare, the operator of the Gainesville hospital, has doubled in the last four years, to $115 million in fiscal 2008, Mr. Goldfarb said. He worries that the financial outlook will become even worse, with the prospect of payment cuts from state governments that are facing large budget shortfalls. 
 ''If we're going to survive the next few years,'' he said, ''we have to circle the wagons.'' 
 The rapid moves by hospitals to cut costs -- by laying off workers, consolidating facilities and freezing construction and other capital spending -- are an abrupt change for an industry traditionally seen as insulated from economic woes. 
 Some hospital executives say they are simply being prudent. The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, for example, is eliminating 500 jobs. The hospital system, which includes 20 hospitals and serves a large portion of Medicare and Medicaid patients, says that so far it has not seen a drop in patient admissions, but growth is tailing off. 
 ''It's much, much slower than we've seen in years past,'' said Robert A. DeMichiei, Pittsburgh's chief financial officer. 
 Mr. DeMichiei said Pittsburgh was mainly trying to reduce administrative jobs as a way to keep ahead of the worsening economy. Because large hospital groups like his have become more professionally managed in recent years, he said, they are no longer slow to reduce expenses. 
 Hospital executives ''are beginning to act more like Corporate America,'' said Mr. DeMichiei, whose own resume includes various jobs at General Electric. 
 Another source of financial anxiety, hospitals say, is the continued difficulty in raising money through the credit markets. The majority of the nation's hospitals are nonprofit, and they often raise capital through the municipal bond market to erect new buildings or make other significant capital investments. Because many hospitals say they are still unable to borrow easily, they have reacted by scaling back projects or holding off on major purchases. 
 ''We are being extremely cautious about approving spending in these 60 to 90 days, until the markets stabilize,'' said Michael A. Slubowski, the president of hospital and health networks for Trinity Health, a large Catholic system based in Novi, Mich., which operates nearly four dozen hospitals, mostly scattered across the Midwest. 
 While Trinity says it has not seen an overall reduction in its patient admissions, Mr. Slubowski says many of his counterparts have. ''People are seeing declines,'' he said. 
 Making matters worse for some hospitals has been a slowdown in bill payments, particularly by state Medicaid programs. The money hospitals are owed for their services -- their accounts receivable -- is growing, said Mr. Rock, the health care consultant, who works for the investment and consulting firm Carl Marks & Company in New York. ''What we're finding is one of the key drivers is Medicaid,'' he said. 
 Many hospital executives also expect outright reductions in payments by Medicaid and Medicare. 
 Mr. Rock predicts that many hospitals will soon start to reconsider the services they provide, with an eye toward scaling back or eliminating some altogether. Procedures that rely heavily on patients' making sizable cash outlays, like bariatric surgery, are particularly vulnerable, he said. 
 Hospital executives concede that they may not be as directly affected by the weak economy as retailers and banks, but they also say they are bracing for what is shaping up to be a severe and prolonged recession. 
 ''There's a lot of C.F.O. doom and gloom,'' said Robert Shapiro, the chief financial officer at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. ''The sky may be really falling this time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Richard Friedman, a surgeon, is among those who say hospitals may be seeing fewer inpatients because of the ailing economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); CHARITIES (73%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (71%); BARIATRICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



266 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: The Green RV

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

 BODY:
OVER the last few years, Sara and Matt Janssen have been downsizing their life. First, they moved from a 1,600-square-foot home to a small apartment in Montana. Then, wanting to tour the country without harming the planet, they took up residence in a recreational vehicle fueled by used vegetable oil. 
 They now travel with their 4-year-old daughter, Bella, spreading the word about the sustainable life.
 Recreational vehicles, which get about 8 miles a gallon, are often considered the antithesis of low-impact living. But it doesn't have to be that way, said Ms. Janssen, speaking by phone from her home, a 36-foot, 1998 Western Alpine Coach, when it was parked in Des Moines recently. 
 Their motor home has a hot water capacity of only six gallons, ''so I know how long my showers are,'' said Ms. Janssen, a 31-year old photographer who also works for her father, a developer of franchises for Cold Stone Creamery. The RV's limited space also means ''we can't buy anything because it won't fit,'' she said.
 Add to that a comprehensive remodeling, including nontoxic paints, bamboo floors and the waste-grease fueling system, and the Janssen mobile home ''is a self-contained lifestyle,'' Ms. Janssen said. 
 Amid growing interest in alternative-fuel vehicles and environmentally friendly building methods, a handful of designers and do-it-yourselfers are taking on an unlikely challenge: reinventing the motor home, with a goal of transforming the typical wide-body gas guzzler into a model of compact green construction and fuel efficiency. 
 These modern-day RV owners are using their retooled motor homes as vehicles, literally, to promote ecological awareness as they travel. 
 ''If you can make an RV sustainable, you can make any industry sustainable,'' said Ty Adams, a Portland, Ore., resident who spent 2007 visiting 25 states and promoting renewable energy in the BioTrekker, an RV powered by biodiesel, a fuel made from refined vegetable oil. Mr. Adams spent $108,000 for the RV and $12,000 more for the biodiesel upgrade and campaign, which he financed by selling his house. 
 The trend received a boost a couple of years ago when Willie Nelson began powering his tour bus with biodiesel, which he called BioWillie, and later convinced other musicians to do the same. But regular RV owners say that their tours serve another purpose besides sustainable travel, namely to reflect a desire for a simpler, if not entirely bygone, era of road tripping and nature appreciation.
 ''When people talk about conservation, they get so bogged down with recycling and living lightly they forget what they are trying to save,'' said Brian Brawdy, a 47-year-old former police investigator turned wilderness expert. ''I want people to get out there and camp, hike, rock climb.'' 
 Mr. Brawdy, a spokesman for Gore-Tex, is on a self-described -- and self-financed -- ''Wonder Explore Believe'' tour of the United States in a Lance Camper modified to capture rainwater and use wind and solar energy. 
 Although hybrid and alternative-fuel RV models have yet to find a mass market, the industry is moving toward fuel-economy prototypes and environmental designs, said Kevin Broom, a spokesman for the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association, which is based in Reston, Va. Individual RV owners are leading the way, he said. An industry survey conducted last year found that about 18 percent of RV owners are already using solar panels, Mr. Broom said.
 ''As consumers ask for more green elements, manufacturers will definitely respond,'' he said, adding that some of the luxury RV models are already replacing ubiquitous vinyl interiors with hardwood. ''It comes in on the high end, then works its way down. '' 
 Mr. Adams is taking another approach after his BioTrekker experience. An avid mountain climber who grew up in Montana, Mr. Adams, 30, described biofuel as his ''gateway drug'' but said: ''Living in the RV for a year made me realize they are not built well. The focus is on whipped cream and faux finishes.'' 
 So last January, Mr. Adams, a former editor for an RV industry publication, sold the BioTrekker and purchased a 37-foot 1994 Safari Trek -- ''which in RV years is like 1,000,'' he said -- and partnered with Joseph Treiber, a retired farmer, and Allison Hintzmann, a teacher, on a top-to-bottom environmental redesign. The fruit of their labor is called the SolTrekker, which is painted in Tuscan reds and yellows and includes solar-powered water and electrical systems, a composting toilet, rainwater harvesting system, recycled denim insulation, LED lighting and bamboo interiors. 
 Shortly after the SolTrekker was completed in September, the vehicle was featured as part of an annual tour of green homes in Portland. 
 ''Most RV-ers care a lot about the outdoors,'' Mr. Adams said. ''They just don't want to sleep on the ground; they don't want to backpack.'' 
 Instead of demonizing RVs, the goal should be to improve their performance, said Mr. Adams, who ultimately envisions a hybrid electric motor home getting at least 50 miles a gallon.
 Similarly, Mr. Brawdy, speaking by phone from Cleveland, said: ''People RV because they like that sense of independence. I hope it communicates to energy independence as well.'' 
 Over the last year, he has taken his rig to such remote areas as Death Valley and Zion National Park without worrying about plugging in because of his off-the-grid electricity sources. 
 Mr. Brawdy, who extols the benefits of reconnecting with nature -- ''dirt is in our DNA'' -- during appearances at sporting goods stores and other venues, said a bout of skin cancer triggered his interest in renewable energy sources. ''I decided to look at the bright side and harness the power of the sun to protect natural resources,'' he said, adding that a storm the night before yielded 40 gallons of water from the camper's rainwater harvesting system. 
 He said most of what he knows about the camper's wind turbine and solar panels has come from on-the-road experience -- a fact he hopes will encourage others to emulate his example. ''I thought I could show the world: 'Hey, Brian doesn't look like the sharpest knife in the drawer, so maybe I can have a rig like that, too,' '' he said.
 Others have hopes of taking the environmentally friendly RV much further. Alexandre Verdier, a 35-year-old from Montreal, has designed a prototype camper that includes a diesel hybrid engine and solar panels that are controlled by a global positioning system to capture the maximum amount of sunlight. The vehicle is an update of the classic Volkswagen Westfalia camper van, which was synonymous with the counter culture in the 1970s. 
 ''I did a lot of trips in the Westfalia, so I came up with the idea of a new green version,'' said Mr. Verdier, citing as particular inspiration a three-month trip he took with friends around the United States when he was 17. 
 The design for the Westfalia Verdier won a 2006-7 Innovation for New Mobility prize awarded during the Caravan Salon Dusseldorf in Germany, one of Europe's largest caravanning exhibition and trade shows. Mr. Verdier said that he was negotiating with a manufacturer and that the vehicles, with an estimated price of $129,000, should be available next summer. 
 Even for those RV owners already on the road, being a pioneer has its challenges. To fill their 100-gallon tank with used cooking oil, Sara and Matt Janssen scour the landscape for fast-food and mom-and-pop restaurants willing to give away an increasingly valuable commodity. The fueling process itself takes about an hour, Ms. Janssen said, adding that the couple invested in an on-board oil filtration system, which strains the ''batter and chicken chunks'' before the oil reaches the engine. 
 It's a laborious process and ''not soccer-mom friendly,'' she said.
 The Janssens' current home represents a sort of second chapter to their journey. When they began their trip in September 2007, a venture that they called the Live Lightly Tour and that they documented at www.livelightlytour.com, they were traveling in a 1994 Fleetwood Flair. 
 Having traded up to their 1998 Western Alpine Coach in September, they figure that they have traveled about 20,000 miles in all and resorted to diesel fuel just once, outside of Austin, Tex. 
 ''It was our fault,'' Ms. Janssen said. ''We didn't start looking early enough.'' 
 She estimates that they saved about $25,000 using the kitchen grease instead of conventional fuel. ''We wouldn't have been able to do the tour if we had had to pay for gas,'' she said. 
 Although the family will live in Bozeman, Mont., for the winter -- in their RV -- they are contemplating whether to continue the road trip next spring. 
 But their work, and their old RV, lives on. Last April, the Janssens spent a few days in Plano, Tex., with Jeff and Kim Harrison, who had been following the Janssens' tour online. The Harrisons, who have a 3-year-old son, Parks, were inspired to buy the Janssens' original RV and start preparing for their own trip on the road next spring. That means storing used vegetable oil in a 50-gallon barrel as they find it, and testing the RV on weekend trips to visit family in West Monroe, La.
 ''To be able to travel and not take up more resources than you have to -- this is a great way to have it all,'' Mrs. Harrison said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWERING UP: Brian Brawdy is touring the country in a modified Lance Camper to promote energy-efficient travel. He parked in Cherokee Park in Louisville, Ky., to collect sun with his solar panels.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VERDIER VAN AND CAMPER INC.)
FUTURE TRAVEL?: Alexandre Verdier designed this biodiesel hybrid camper with GPS-controlled solar panels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOFF BUGBEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE SUSTAINABLE LIFE: Matt, Sara and Bella Janssen live in a 36-foot RV, which Mr. Janssen fuels with biodiesel, above. Brian Brawdy, above right, wants RV-ers to enjoy and help save nature in efficient vehicles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANIE OSBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (67%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (59%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



267 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Good Neighbors

 BODY:
New York City pioneered the strategy of providing homeless people not just with housing but with drug treatment, psychiatric care and other services they need to live successfully on their own. Even with all the add-ons, supportive housing apartment buildings cost substantially less than shelters and are many times less expensive than jails or beds in psychiatric hospitals. 
 This strategy is taking root all over the country and proving beyond a doubt that people who were once homeless can be good neighbors and good citizens. Unfortunately, many neighborhoods are continuing to fight the developments, believing that they bring down property values. A long-awaited study from New York University's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy should put an end to that misperception. 
 The study examined the sale prices of apartment buildings, condominiums and individual homes in New York City neighborhoods where 123 supportive housing developments were opened between 1985 and 2003. 
 Fear seems to have suppressed property values somewhat while the new developments, which often replaced vacant lots or eyesores, were being built. But that evaporated once people saw the buildings and how well they were run. 
 In the five years after the developments were opened, the study finds, the prices of buildings nearest the supportive housing development experienced ''strong and steady growth,'' and appreciated more than comparable properties that were slightly farther away. In other words, the closer property owners lived to these often handsome developments, the better they fared. 
 The Furman study confirms what advocates have been saying for years: well run supportive housing can help both formerly homeless citizens and the neighborhoods in which they are built. Politicians and business leaders across the country should pay attention. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



268 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Gris Sets Record in Slow Auction Night

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Christie's auction of Impressionist and Modern art on Thursday was packaged for the market as it existed six months ago, but the results reflected a more cautious and often grim new reality. 
 It wasn't all bad news. A richly detailed Cubist painting by Juan Gris brought a record price of nearly $21 million. 
 But those moments were rare in an evening overstuffed with mediocre examples by first-rate artists like Monet and Matisse. During the summer, when Christie's experts put the sale together, they had buyers in mind for many of these works. But when the worldwide economic picture turned ugly, a large number of collectors fled the art market as they saw their wealth diminish. 
 Surprisingly, even with the Dow Jones industrial average plunging more than 400 points on Thursday, Americans represented 61 percent of the buyers, with Europeans (a category that includes Russians) trailing at 26 percent. And despite the drop in oil prices, Middle Eastern collectors were still buying art, making up 2 percent of the buyers. 
 Thursday night's sale included a sweeping range of material, from classic, sun-dappled Impressionist landscapes to late, distorted Picasso nudes. In the end, the sale totaled $146.7 million, well under its low estimate of $240.7 million. Of the 82 works for sale, 36, or more than 40 percent, of the auction went unsold. 
 Still, the results painted a slightly more encouraging picture of the market than those on Wednesday for ''The Modern Age,'' Christie's sale devoted to two estate collections. 
 The bidders on Thursday were controlled and careful, but Christie's executives seemed much relieved afterward, having sold the works in which they had large financial stakes. ''There's still a great deal of money left in the art market,'' said an optimistic Christopher Burge, Christie's honorary chairman in America and the evening's auctioneer. ''But we have to look at a new, reduced price level.'' 
 That applied even for the best works. When ''Book, Pipe and Glasses,'' the Juan Gris, came up, three bidders methodically went for the painting, which has a distinguished exhibition history. Two hopefuls on the telephone competed with Franck Giraud, a New York dealer. It was Mr. Giraud who took home the winning $20.8 million bid, paying above the painting's high $18.5 million estimate. (After the sale he said he had bid on behalf of an American collector whom he declined to name.) 
 (Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million, and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 Another item that saw enthusiastic bidding was a beautifully rendered work on paper by Schiele, ''Sitting Woman in Underwear, Back View,'' from 1917. It had belonged to Serge Sabarsky, the New York dealer who died in 1996. Estimated to bring $700,000 to $1 million, the work sold to David Benrimon, a New York dealer, for $1.59 million.
 For much of the evening, however, bidding was sluggish, and when things sold, they often just squeaked by. While there were two interested bidders for Picasso's ''Two People (Marie Therese Walter and Her Sister Reading),'' a 1934 canvas depicting the artist's mistress and her sister, the painting brought $16 million, or $18 million with fees, right at the low estimate. 
 The image on the sale catalog's cover, Kandinsky's ''Study for Improvisation 3,'' sold at its low estimate. A colorful 1909 canvas of a horse and rider, a forerunner of the artist's groundbreaking abstract paintings, it brought $15 million (its low estimate), or $16.8 million including Christie's fees. 
 For many works there were no takers at all. A 1947 Matisse cutout, ''Two Masks (The Tomato),'' that was being sold by the artist's family was estimated at $5 million to $7 million. Despite the distinguished provenance and the vibrant work itself, it failed to sell. The same was true for many Impressionist canvases by Monet, Pissarro and Renoir. 
 Giacometti sculptures have been particularly big sellers in recent years, and on Thursday the artist's ''Three Walking Men I,'' conceived in 1948, was on the block. In 1999 at Sotheby's in New York it brought $5.7 million. Christie's estimated it would fetch $14 million to $18 million, but even with two bidders it went for only $11.5 million. Before the sale there were rumors that one contender would be the Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, but the buyer was Robert Landau, a Montreal dealer. 
 ''I know the market's adjusting, but you have to get good things when you can,'' Mr. Landau said after the sale. ''Fortune favors the brave.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Book, Pipe and Glasses,'' a 1915 oil on canvas by the Spaniard Juan Gris, brought a record price of $20.8 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (53%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



269 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Client Cutbacks Bring Agency Layoffs

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
MADISON AVENUE is fastening its seat belt as the cascading effects of the financial crisis begin to hit the advertising economy.
 As consumers suddenly cut back spending on everything from cars to clothing to cold cuts, companies are reducing their ad budgets or shifting to lower-cost alternatives like e-mail marketing and public relations.
 That means layoffs at agencies, which since the dot-com bust have been carefully counting heads whenever clients start counting pennies. 
 Several big agencies have been reducing staff levels throughout this year. But the pink slips are flying faster since the failure of Lehman Brothers in mid-September intensified the crisis in the global finance markets.
 ''It's one big Maalox moment,'' the trade publication Advertising Age declared in an e-mail message sent to readers on Thursday, which asked them to vote in a weekly online poll. The question was: ''Do you think your job is in jeopardy?''
 The answer, unfortunately, turned out to be ''yes'' for 145 employees of the Troy, Mich., office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, who were told Thursday that they would be laid off, effective immediately. That represented 22.1 percent of the estimated 656 employees of the office, known as BBDO Detroit.
 The reason for the layoffs, across all departments, was the drastic drop in sales for Chrysler, the principal client of BBDO Detroit. That slump has led Chrysler to reduce its ad spending so far this year by about 30 percent, compared with the first nine months of last year, to an estimated $800 million from more than $1 billion.
 Chrysler reported on Monday that sales in October for its Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep products had plunged 34.9 percent compared with the same month last year. Sales for the first 10 months of 2008 fell about 26 percent from the same period of 2007.
 The layoffs at BBDO Detroit were ''in response to reduced levels of activity by its key client, Chrysler,'' according to a statement from the agency, as well as ''changes in the nature of planned activities'' -- in other words, ad spending going forward is also likely to be reduced.
 BBDO Detroit creates national campaigns for the Chrysler and Dodge brands of cars, trucks and minivans. The office created national campaigns for the company's Jeep brand until April 2007, when those duties were shifted to an agency in San Francisco called Cutwater, which is also owned by Omnicom.
 BBDO has about 2,000 employees in North America, said a spokesman at the New York headquarters, Roy Elvove. In addition to the Troy office, BBDO North America has offices in cities that include Atlanta, San Francisco, Toronto and Chicago, where the agency is known as Energy BBDO.
 Like other large agencies, BBDO has been reducing staff levels throughout the year. Last spring, for instance, when the BBDO Los Angeles office lost the creative assignment for Mitsubishi Motors North America to a Hollywood agency named Traffic, 10 to 15 jobs were eliminated there and others were transferred to the BBDO San Francisco office.
 Not all BBDO clients are pulling back. The agency has campaigns coming for retailers like Best Buy and Lowe's as well as the Hyatt lodging chain and the Campbell Soup Company. And the BBDO San Francisco office has won assignments from advertisers like Comcast and Harrah's.
 The cutbacks at BBDO Detroit came a few days after an interactive agency, Razorfish, owned by the Microsoft Corporation, said it would lay off 40 employees and Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas, said it would lay off about 50 employees. 
 In the last month, several major agency holding companies -- Omnicom, the Aegis Group, the Interpublic Group of Companies, the Publicis Groupe and the WPP Group -- warned that the ad industry was slowing down because consumers were spending less after their confidence was rattled by the financial crisis.
 ''During the past few weeks, it has become clear that the global financial situation has begun to weigh on marketers' spending plans for both the fourth quarter and 2009,'' Michael I. Roth, chairman and chief executive at Interpublic in New York, said in a statement on Oct. 28 as he released results for the third quarter.
 ''While we believe that with our strong performance year to date we remain positioned to achieve our financial objectives for 2008,'' Mr. Roth said, ''the impact of an increasingly unsettled and volatile business environment on our sector is not yet clear and creates a risk to meeting our stated goals.''
 Cautionary as those remarks were, they came nine days before many of the nation's retailers reported steep declines in October sales at virtually every type of store. Those reports, issued on Thursday, foreshadowed a difficult Christmas shopping season.
 The dismal sales results threaten to persuade marketers that wanted to continue to spend on advertising -- hoping to stimulate demand before the holidays -- to reduce budgets until consumers are more inclined to buy. Such cutbacks could result in more agency layoffs.
 The layoffs announced by agencies like BBDO follow staff reductions at traditional media companies like the Conde Nast Publications division of Advance Publications, McGraw-Hill, Playboy Enterprises, Rodale and the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, as well as by new media companies like Break, Gawker Media, Heavy and Ripe TV. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Dodge Ram truck going through its paces for a new advertising campaign. BBDO Detroit, the creator of campaigns for Chrysler and Dodge vehicles, announced 145 layoffs Thursday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); EMAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (50%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



270 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Governments on Both Sides of the Atlantic Push to Get Banks to Lend

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Anxious about the economic impact of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, governments on both sides of the Atlantic are searching for ways to ward off a severe recession, or at least to shorten it. 
 But there is a fundamental problem that is not easily solved by the usual economic policy tools: how to persuade rattled banks to start lending again -- an essential first step to restoring economic health. 
 Officials on both sides of the Atlantic are working frantically to get the financial system moving again, even in countries like France, where the banks are in relatively good shape. In various ways, reflective of their cultures and the relative exposure of their banks, France, Britain and Germany have made available billions of euros, both in capital and in credit, to get lending going. But so far, none of the plans are working very well.
 Across Europe, serious lending is only beginning to resume, said Thomas Mayer, the chief Europe economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''It's working very disappointingly slowly,'' he said. ''Perhaps it's because each country has a slightly different system, and no one knows what it means.'' 
 Interbank lending rates -- an important indicator of the financial system's health -- have eased from the record heights reached after the Lehman Brothers failure. But by historic standards they remain at elevated levels, reflecting the fear banks have of taking on more risks. 
 Having been brought low by their dealings in obscure securities that they failed to fully understand, bankers are reluctant to start lending again until the impact of the recession becomes clearer. They want to strengthen themselves with more deposits, and they want to hoard their capital in order to guard against future declines in the value of their loan portfolios.
 But there are political reasons, too. Bankers are reluctant to take money from governments, especially if it comes with strings attached, like restrictions on executive bonuses or on dividends. Healthy banks -- and even some sickly ones -- fear the stigma that comes with accepting government aid, worrying about a loss of trust among depositors and investors. 
 To support lending, European governments have come up with at least three models. 
 In Britain, faced with an American-style crisis and the bursting of a housing bubble, the government has veered away from its previous free-market policies and is buying large stakes in some banks, seminationalizing them and dictating some bank policies.
 In France, despite its fondness for statist policies, the government is intervening less, providing guarantees but taking no equity. 
 Germany has come down somewhere in the middle, combining penalties for banks with few incentives to lend. Financial experts say that model is the least effective, in part because it has become so politicized. 
 In Washington, after a false start involving the purchasing of toxic debt, the Bush administration has followed the British in strengthening the banks themselves, pushing them to accept capital and loan guarantees from a pot of at least $700 billion. But in the United States, too, healthy banks are reluctant to take government money, and the Bush administration has stayed true to the American resistance to state control, remaining timid about intervening in the business of banks. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. had to gather the chief executives of the nine biggest American banks and cajole them into accepting about $25 billion each in new capital. But having pleaded with the banks to take the money, and putting no government officials on bank boards, the government had little power to tell them how to spend it. Treasury officials also refused to tell banks to reduce their dividends or to increase their lending by any specific amounts. 
 The process of leaning on the banks to lend is becoming politicized everywhere. ''This is more about politics than about finance,'' said Philippe Waechter, chief economist at Natixis Asset Management. ''In the beginning, the question was really about the monetary markets.'' But now, he said, ''politicians are trying to look like they're in charge.''
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France was among the first to turn up the pressure. On Oct. 14, less than 24 hours after announcing a $460 billion plan to support France's banks, he summoned the country's top financial executives to the Elysee Palace. 
 Mr. Sarkozy, not known for mincing words, told bankers they were entering a ''moral pact'' with the government. They would get state help and protection, but in return they would not only have to resume lending, but also increase it.
 ''I was fast and strong'' in responding to the American financial meltdown, Mr. Sarkozy said, according to two people at the meeting. ''Now I ask you to be fast and strong.''
 Given the intimacy of French society, especially at the top of the pyramid, it was more than a polite request. Within days, the heads of France's top six banks had committed themselves to increasing their lending volume by 4 percent in 2009, or $95 billion, in return for $13 billion in loans from the state.
 But even the French banks are taking their time. Last Thursday, Mr. Sarkozy warned the bank chiefs again -- this time publicly -- to get moving and not choke off credit to consumers and businesses. The prime minister, Francois Fillon, was explicit in a television interview. ''If the banks don't do their job,'' he said, the government would not exclude ''taking a stake and maybe changing the management.'' 
 The French model, however, may not translate well into a different culture. French banks are reasonably sound. They are largely retail in nature, and they have conservative requirements for mortgages and loans. Even credit-card debt is effectively debit-card debt, as balances are deducted automatically at the end of the month and purchases that exceed the account balance are normally denied.
 So far France has stayed away from trying to dictate the dividends, salaries or bonuses of banks. A first $6.3 billion in guarantees for new bank debt has been approved, with another $6.3 billion expected soon.
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain has been given credit for pointing the way for Europe and America by injecting state capital directly into the banks.
 But Mr. Brown, known previously as a free-market advocate, had little choice, with British banks deeply affected by the American crisis, and largely in the same ways. America and Britain had the same kind of overleveraged investment banks repackaging the same sort of no-money-down and interest-only mortgages that the Continent largely shunned.
 When the crisis hit, American and British banks faced insolvency, and regulators faced the prospect of systemic failure. The British government said it would acquire controlling stakes in the Royal Bank of Scotland and the soon to be combined Lloyds TSB and HBOS in exchange for a $64 billion capital infusion. For banks in which the government had a stake, Mr. Brown placed limits on executive bonuses, stopped dividend payments and called for a return to 2007 levels of lending to small businesses.
 These were tough terms, but failing British banks had little choice but to accept them. The British package, in coordination with the Bank of England, totaled about $785 billion in emergency loans, capital injections and lending guarantees.
 But so far small businesses have complained that these costly capital injections have done little to help their access to credit. In an editorial last Friday, The Financial Times said the government had no easy options. ''Bullying will make little difference,'' the newspaper wrote. The government could effectively complete the nationalization of banks and order them to lend, taking both credit decisions and risk, but the paper added, ''That may yet be necessary, but only a hopeless optimist would expect that story to end happily.''
 But Britain's plan seems to be working better than Germany's, economists say, with more British banks buying into the process and Mr. Brown quietly making further adjustments in the plan.
 Germany's middle way offers a cautionary tale, as it has become politicized in the bitter, pre-election fight between the rivals of the current ''grand coalition'' -- the Christian Democrats of Chancellor Angela Merkel and the Social Democrats, who run the Finance Ministry under Peer Steinbruck.
 Mr. Steinbruck, who rejected a Europe-wide capital fund and at first said that Germany was immune to the financial contagion, had to eat his words as Berlin raced to save Hypo Real Estate Holding, its second-largest real-estate lender, from collapse. Mr. Steinbruck then criticized bankers in class-warfare terms and said the government would now impose harsh conditions on them.
 But the strong language seems to have alienated the bankers, who are shunning the government's rescue plan. ''When you politicize and stigmatize a package to such an extent, you risk pushing people away,'' a senior Western European diplomat said. 
 Germany announced a $640 billion package, the bulk of which was $510 billion in loan guarantees. About $100 billion is for capital injections into banks and to buy illiquid assets, and another $25 billion is budgeted to cover potential losses.
 But the price for participation is high. The banks are not allowed to pay dividends, and they have to cap executive pay at $635,000 a year, relinquish bonuses and abandon ''risky'' business. All the while they must accept government monitoring of lending.
 On Monday, Commerzbank became the first commercial lender to take the cash, more than $10 billion, as well as government guarantees for $19 billion in new debt. But concerned about European Union rules on state aid, regulators in Brussels are examining the deal to see if it is too sweet for the bank. However, the favorable terms were one way Commerzbank was persuaded to accept participation in the first place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Germany had to save Hypo Real Estate Holding, a commercial property lender, from collapse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULE DI SABA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
The British government said it would acquire controlling stakes in the Royal Bank of Scotland.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France said banks would get help in return for increased lending.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



271 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Agents Look Across Borders for Buyers

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRASS

 BODY:
WITH the property market in turmoil, especially in the United States, real estate agents around the country are increasing their efforts to woo the Russian oligarchs, Korean industrialists and other international buyers who have been making news with splashy top-dollar purchases. 
 ''They are the most aggressive buyers in the market right now,'' said Kevin McBride, an agent with Atlanta Fine Homes Sotheby's International in Atlanta. In international hubs like Atlanta, overseas clients now account for anywhere from 10 to 30 percent of sales, industry experts say. 
 Even Immobel, a company based in Warsaw that specializes in translating online real estate listings into 13 languages, has seen the number of American agents using its services jump by 30 percent in the last year, said Janet Choynowski, the company's chief executive. Agents are ''really eager to reach out to buyers proactively by any means they can,'' Ms. Choynowski said. 
 But even before the financial meltdown of the last few weeks, there was growing concern that the flow of international buyers into the United States was slowing. 
 A study by the National Association of Realtors found the number of agents who sold a home to an international buyer actually decreased in the last year, from 18 percent to 13.3 percent.
 And the dollar has strengthened in the last six months, diminishing the so-called ''currency exchange discount'' that helped make American property a bargain for many foreign buyers. The euro was worth $1.60 in July; it has been about $1.30 recently. The British pound has dropped from $2.10 in November 2007 to a little over $1.60. 
 ''The dollar has gotten stronger and that makes the investment appeal that much weaker,'' said Melissa Cohn, president of Manhattan Mortgage Company.
 Ms. Cohn said the number of international buyers in New York City has dropped by 50 percent in the last six months. And with credit tight, the list of mortgage companies in the city willing to finance a purchase by a foreign resident has dropped from 10 to 4, she said.
 That is not good news in Manhattan, where international buyers typically buy a third or more of the apartments in new buildings, local experts say. 
 But international buyers continue to play an important role in the local market. For the W New York Downtown, a 56-story project under development in Manhattan, 74 percent of the initial sales have been to foreign buyers, primarily from South Korea, the United Arab Emirates and Italy, a project spokesman said.
 In Miami, which has been particularly hard hit by the market slowdown, as many as 50 percent of sales in some neighborhoods are to overseas clients, despite the credit crunch and strengthening dollar, said Teresa Kinney, chief executive of the Greater Realtor Association of Miami and the Beaches. This month the organization was host to a contingent of 150 international agents, including 103 from Russia, who toured properties and networked with Miami agents before they headed to the National Association of Realtors' annual convention in Orlando. And in the past year group members have traveled to events in Paris, Madrid and Moscow to forge alliances. 
 ''It's our biggest source for new business in Miami,'' Ms. Kinney said.
 Around the country, industry executives are organizing similar initiatives. In September, the Texas Association of Realtors, for the first time, led 100 agents from Texas to Guadalajara, Mexico, to a trade conference. Mexican citizens were the third-largest group of international buyers in the United States last year, behind only Canada and Britain, according to the National Association of Realtors study.
 In Hawaii, Dano Sayles of Coldwell Banker Island Properties is expanding his participation in international groups and attending conferences around the world to make new contacts.
 ''What really saved my market in south Maui last year was the Canadians,'' said Mr. Sayles, who specializes in homes of more than $2 million. 
 In Honolulu, Sakara Blackwell, president of Optimum Realty, recently hired staffers who speak Mandarin and Korean, hoping to take advantage of moves by China and Korea to loosen restrictions on their citizens' making foreign purchases. Overseas buyers now represent about 20 percent of her business.
 ''A couple of years ago it would have been zero,'' Ms. Blackwell said.
 As global markets slow, agents say different types of international buyers have been emerging. In many markets, ''vultures'' are going after depressed and foreclosed properties, sensing that the bottom is near. Others are looking at luxury real estate as a safe investment, more than simply a second home. 
 ''People are buying in the U.S. not necessarily because they think it's cheap,'' said Ms. Choynowski, the Immobel executive. ''They're buying because they see it as a safe haven for their money.'' 
 Brian Dingley of London recently bought two properties just outside Tampa, including one that has yet to be constructed. The entrepreneur plans to move permanently to Florida as soon as his investor visa is approved.
 ''The Tampa International Airport has direct flights to London, and the population of Tampa is growing at 8 to 9 percent,'' he said. ''I think we are reaching the bottom of the housing market, so it's an excellent time to buy.''
 Many of those buyers aren't affected by credit problems -- they're paying in cash, agents say. 
 But the news of sharp price drops in many markets have left both investors and second-home buyers confused and uncertain. Media reports often don't reflect the luxury market, which performs differently from the general overall market in many cities, industry executives say. ''People don't know what to believe,'' said Bruce Hiatt, owner of the Luxury Realty Group in Las Vegas.
 Many American companies hope the number of foreign buyers will bounce back. 
 ''People are buying across borders,'' Ms. Choynowski said. ''That's just the way it is now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LAST PINTS: Brian Dingley and family at their local pub in Northampton, England. They are moving soon to a new home in Tampa, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-PHILIPPE DEFAUT FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); BRITISH POUND (64%)

COMPANY: MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (65%); SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (65%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



272 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Agency Predicts a Return Of Triple-Digit Oil Prices

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The global economic slump that has curbed energy demand and pushed oil prices down in recent months may provide only a short-lived respite for consumers, according to the world's top energy forecaster.
 The International Energy Agency, which advises industrialized nations on energy policy, warned on Thursday that the supply shortfalls that pushed oil prices into triple-digit territory this year are far from resolved, and could lead to a new period of high prices. 
 Oil has plummeted from its summer peak in recent weeks as the financial and economic slowdown reduced consumption. But many analysts believe oil could bounce back quickly once economic growth resumes. On Thursday, oil futures in New York settled at $60.77 a barrel, down $4.53, their lowest level in 19 months. Prices are now 58 percent below their peak of $145.29 a barrel in July. 
 As a result of higher prices and lower growth, the energy agency slashed its forecast for global oil demand by more than 10 million barrels a day over the next two decades. It now expects oil consumption to reach 106 million barrels a day in 2030, up from 86 million barrels a day this year. 
 But even with the lowered demand forecast, the agency warned that the period of lower prices may not last as producers fail to increase oil supplies to meet the developing world's rising needs. It expects prices to average more than $100 a barrel through 2015, and possibly rise to $200 a barrel by 2030.
 The findings are part of the agency's annual World Energy Outlook, which is scheduled to be released next week in full. An 18-page executive summary was made public on Thursday.
 Much of the growth in oil supplies will come from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, whose members hold the bulk of the world's oil reserves.
 The agency said that big new investments would be required in coming decades to meet growing energy needs. Oil and gas investments of $8.4 trillion will be required through 2030, or about $350 billion a year on average. 
 ''Globally, oil resources are plentiful, but there can be no guarantee that they will be exploited quickly enough'' to meet the expected consumption growth, the agency said.
 Falling prices are causing some producers to pare investments and delay projects.
 Saudi Arabia's national oil company, Saudi Aramco, and ConocoPhillips said on Thursday that they would delay a major expansion at a refinery in Yanbu, on the kingdom's Red Sea coast, for at least six months.
 The two companies said they halted the bidding process for the 400,000-barrel-a-day refinery because of ''uncertainties in the financial and contracting markets.'' Both companies said they were still committed to the project but wanted to take advantage of better contracting terms as prices fall. 
 The energy agency's experts have become increasingly alarmed in recent years at the slow pace of development of oil resources. The agency's report includes an extensive analysis of the world's 800 biggest oil fields. It found that producers would face a steep path just to keep production from declining.
 Part of the problem, the report found, was that decline rates at existing fields were accelerating, meaning that more oil needs to be found and produced to keep global production from falling. 
 According to the report, in order to offset both natural field declines and meet the projected growth in demand by 2030, the world would need to increase production by 64 million barrels a day, or the equivalent of six times the current production of Saudi Arabia. 
 The global agency also stressed that urgent action was required to curb carbon emissions, which are expected to double by the end of the century. That would push global temperatures up by as much as 11 degrees Fahrenheit, leading to catastrophic global warming, the agency said.
 ''Current global trends in energy supply and consumption are patently unsustainable -- environmentally, economically, and socially,'' the energy agency said. ''But that can -- and must -- be altered.''
 The agency said that reductions in the carbon dioxide output of the United States and China, the world's top two emitters, would be critical to stabilizing global emissions. Carbon emissions from the use of fossil fuels are expected to rise by 45 percent by 2030. Even modest reductions will be difficult to achieve, and will be costly. 
 ''The future of human prosperity depends on how successfully we tackle the two central energy challenges facing us today: securing the supply of reliable and affordable energy; and effecting a rapid transformation to a low-carbon, efficient and environmentally benign system of energy supply,'' the report said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The International Energy Agency predicts oil prices as high as $200 a barrel by 2030. Above, a Total refinery in Germany.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS SCHLUETER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (87%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FUTURES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); SAUDI ARAMCO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); RED SEA (66%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



273 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: To Save Money, State to Scale Back Drug Abuse Programs for Ex-Convicts

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Because of budget cuts, the state will curtail its substance abuse programs for ex-convicts living in New York City and its suburbs by month's end, despite research indicating that such programs help reduce recidivism.
 The elimination of about $8.6 million in contracts between the Department of Correctional Services, the Division of Parole and nonprofit groups that provide the drug counseling is a tiny drop in the $1.1 billion that Gov. David A. Paterson has cut from the state's annual spending since March. About 2,700 parolees participated in the programs over the last year, and many who work on smoothing prisoner re-entry worry that cutting the programs could land hundreds of them back behind bars.
 ''It is a panicky response,'' said Harry K. Wexler, whose research for the National Development and Research Institutes, a New York-based nonprofit, suggests that community drug treatment programs cut re-arrest and re-incarceration rates in half over five years. ''They are cutting their nose off to spite their face.'' 
 The Department of Corrections did not renew a $577,000 annual contract that ended last month with Stay'n Out, a respected drug-treatment program that has, since 1977, helped New Yorkers make the transition from prison to their communities. At the same time, the Division of Parole is, at the end of November, shutting down its entire drug-treatment portfolio, which included outpatient and residential programs around New York State.
 Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the corrections department, said that the agency regretted eliminating the Stay'n Out contract, but that it has to ''protect its own people.'' The department is continuing to operate an extensive drug-treatment program inside the prison system with its own staff, serving almost 11,000 inmates at a cost of $20 million a year, which Mr. Kriss said is more cost-effective than the private programs.
 But the effectiveness of the prison programs has never been evaluated by an independent group, and they are generally not available to convicts once they are released, except in certain work-release programs upstate.
 Mr. Wexler said his research has ''shown you have to have an aftercare program,'' adding: ''It is a big part of the deal.''
 Matt Anderson, a spokesman for the state's Division of the Budget, said the economic downturn was forcing the administration to make some unhappy choices. He also said that the state's Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services, which has a budget of more than $600 million to serve the general public, is getting an additional $2 million aimed specifically at parolees to offset $8 million in cuts. ''With the state facing record budget deficits, the unfortunate reality is that there will be many worthy programs with laudable goals that will experience reductions in funding,'' he said.
 The cuts worry ex-convicts like Jason, who is 36 and has been in drug therapy through a residentially based parolee program at Phoenix House in Manhattan since he left prison a year ago after serving eight years for first-degree robbery. He said that he became addicted to crack cocaine while growing up in Queens with a mother who used drugs, and spoke on the condition his last name not be used because he does not want to call attention to his addiction as he tries to clean up his life. 
 ''This is not a one-day process,'' Jason said of the treatment. ''To come this far and then be told you can't be involved is too hard to take.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); PRISONS (91%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (90%); PAROLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



274 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Worker Productivity Slowed As Consumer Spending Fell

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The efficiency of American workers slowed sharply in the summer as a huge pullback by consumers threw the national economy into reverse.
 The Labor Department reported Thursday that productivity -- the amount an employee produces for every hour on the job -- grew at an annual pace of 1.1 percent in the third quarter, down from a 3.6 percent growth rate in the second quarter. 
 With productivity growth slowing, labor costs picked up. Unit labor costs -- a measure of how much companies pay workers for every unit of output they produce -- increased at a 3.6 percent pace in the third quarter, compared with a 0.1 percent rate of decline in the previous period.
 Worker productivity growth slowed as overall production declined, reflecting the hit to consumers and the economy as a whole from the housing, credit and financial turmoil.
 In the latest sign of the ailing job market, the number of people continuing to draw unemployment benefits jumped by 122,000, to 3.84 million, in late October, a separate report from the department showed. It was the highest level since late February 1983, when the country was struggling to recover from a long and painful recession. 
 New filings for jobless benefits last week dipped to 481,000, a still-elevated level that suggested companies were in a cost-cutting mode.
 The 1.1 percent productivity growth logged in the summer beat economists' expectations for a 0.8 percent growth rate. The rise in labor costs -- while welcome to workers -- was faster than the 2.8 percent pace economists were forecasting.
 Economists often look at labor compensation for clues about inflation. These days, however, the Federal Reserve and analysts are more concerned about the economy's feeble state. 
 While the increase in labor costs may raise some economists' eyebrows, the Fed is predicting inflation pressures will lessen as the economy loses traction.
 The 1.1 percent productivity gain was the smallest since the final quarter of last year, while the increase in labor costs was the biggest since that time.
 The government employment report to be released on Friday is expected to show a loss of 200,000 jobs in October. The unemployment rate -- now at 6.1 percent -- is expected to climb to 6.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



275 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; HIGH & LOW CANNON BEACH, ORE.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Between Mountains and Sea

BYLINE: By BETHANY LYTTLE

 BODY:
PERCHED on the Oregon coastline, Cannon Beach, a city of about 1,700 full-time residents, has a remarkable setting. One block to the west of downtown is the crashing surf of the Pacific Ocean, its shoreline punctuated with towering rock monoliths, including the 235-foot-high Haystack Rock. From there, as from much of the city, the Tillamook Rock Lighthouse is in view. To the east are the Coast Range Mountains and thousands of acres of old-growth forest. To the north is Ecola State Park, with winding roads, hiking trails and beach.
''These geographical boundaries directly restrict the amount of physical expansion and growth that can happen here in Cannon Beach,'' said Richard Mays, the city manager. ''Ordinances take care of the rest.'' The laws prohibit neon signs and chain restaurants and stores. They also discourage building or design plans that run counter to the city's weather-faded, cedar-shingle architectural aesthetic. 
The small city center of Cannon Beach, with cafes, galleries and shops, is about three blocks long. Tourism drives the economy, particularly in the warmer months. Mr. Mays said that based on state park visitor statistics, about 750,000 people came to the area in 2007.
Second homes dominate. Duane Johnson, owner of Duane Johnson Real Estate in Cannon Beach, said that about 70 percent of the houses in Cannon Beach belonged to part-time residents, most of them from Portland, about 80 miles southeast, or Seattle, about 210 miles north.
More homes are on the market this year than in recent years. Last week, about 90 single-family homes were actively listed. Farzahn Kamali, owner of Kamali and Company, an agency in Cannon Beach, said that until about a year ago the number was typically much lower. Less than 50 active listings would have been a more common statistic, according to the Oregon Association of Realtors.
Oceanfront homes are, of course, the most desirable properties in Cannon Beach. Currently six are available, including one priced at more than $6 million. More typical prices for the upper end are $2 million to $2.5 million, Mr. Johnson said.
Houses with ocean views but no water frontage list from $600,000 to $800,000.
Away from the ocean, with no water views, houses suitable for second-home owners range from $400,000 to $600,000.
HIGH
After demolition of a small house originally on its oceanfront lot, this 3,070-square-foot, cedar-shingle house was built in 2000. It is situated in the Tolovana Park neighborhood, about 2.5 miles from downtown Cannon Beach. Private outdoor stairs lead down to 100 feet of ocean frontage, and all of the main living areas and the master suite have ocean views. An oceanfront deck is off the top-floor living area, and a patio with a firepit is off the main-level family room. The grounds have been professionally landscaped, and there is a sprinkler system. Interior features include cherry hardwood floors, large windows, vaulted ceilings, custom maple kitchen cabinets and gas fireplaces in the living room and family room. The family room also has a library nook with built-in shelves The house has four bathrooms. Taxes: $8,705.08. Agent: Chris Childress, Duane Johnson Real Estate, (503) 436-0451; www.duanejohnson.com.
LOW
This 1,600-square-foot house, about two blocks from downtown and three blocks from the ocean, was built in 1952. It sits about 110 feet above sea level at the north end of Cannon Beach. The house was fully remodeled beginning in 2001, and the chimney, roof and wiring were all updated. Interior details include tongue-in-groove fir ceilings and wainscoting, a stone fireplace, skylights, and tile and marble in the bathrooms. The kitchen has commercial-grade appliances. Outdoors are three decks, including one that faces south with ocean views, and three patios, one of which has an outdoor fireplace. Also on the property is a tiny outbuilding suitable for a studio or storage. An attached carport holds one vehicle, and there is off-street parking for two more. The property can be purchased either in its entirety or in one-sixth shares, priced at $129,500 each. Taxes: $2,284.03. Broker: Farzahn Kamali, Kamali and Company, (503) 436-9000; www.kamalicompany.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); STATE PARKS (89%); ORDINANCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); HIKING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



276 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Formal Concerns Mixed With a Dollop of Kitsch

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
Braving the economic maelstrom, a crowd of 62 dealers from Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Europe are assembled at Pier 92 for the Asian Contemporary Art Fair. 
 The fair's size, look and feel are not all that different from last year, or for that matter from other fairs in this setting. It is a temporary mall for highly sophisticated shoppers, with rows of spacious, elegant and well-lighted booths lining carpeted aisles. 
 But the art here has its own flavor. A combination of formal perfection and kitsch seems to characterize a lot of work on view, as does a continued preoccupation with the dialogue between tradition and innovation. 
 Sometimes this relationship to tradition is mocking, as in the self-conscious coupling of traditional Chinese imagery with Western advertising slogans in gaudy paintings and sculptures by the Luo Brothers, at several booths; or the figurines of Disney characters by So Youn Jeong, in the manner of Choson period ceramics, at PYO Gallery.
 At other times, artists use tradition to offer a moral viewpoint or register dissent, like the Iranian artist Shiva Ahmadi's decorative paintings in the style of Persian miniatures. Her pieces at Leila Taghinia-Milani Heller Gallery are made on paper, then stuck to board cut in the shape of oil barrels. Nearby, at Art Vietnam, Truong Tan uses traditional Southeast Asian lacquer painting techniques to rail against attitudes toward homosexuality in his native Vietnam. 
 The preponderance of painting and photography hints at art-market anxiety and, perhaps, an urge to cut down on freight costs. But it also delivers unexpected surprises, like a beautiful, poignant painting of three babies by the Indonesian artist Haris Purnomo, at Lillian Heidenberg. This is the first time Mr. Purnomo is being shown in New York.
 The fair also offers visitors two special exhibitions, organized by independent curators. My pick is a salty survey of new art from Georgia, Turkey and Kazakhstan, the highlight of which is ''Kissing Totems'' (2007-8), a video and several documentary photographs of a seminaked performance by the Kazakh artist Almagul Menlibayeva. 
 There's a considerable amount of Chinese contemporary art, much of it awful, but also occasional valuable pieces by marquee artists like Zhang Huan, Guo Wei, Yang Shaobin, Chen Yufei, Zhang Xiaogang, Wang Keping, Zhang Dali, Yue Minjun and Sui Jianguo. Sampler shows at Chambers Fine Art and Max Protetch are a cut above the rest.
 Less familiar, younger artists from China, Japan, and South Korea are also in abundance, like Li Xiaofeng at Red Gate, Han Yajuan at Chinese Contemporary, and Moo Hyoung Kwon at Bellarte. Their work offers an idea of the shape of Asian contemporary art to come. 
 The Asian Contemporary Art Fair continues through Monday at Pier 92, 12th Avenue and 52nd Street, Clinton; (212) 563-3360, acafny.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A painting by the Indonesian artist Haris Purnomo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LILLIAN HEIDENBERG FINE ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); INDONESIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); JAPAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



277 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Priority on Infrastructure

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Brooks hit the nail on the head in ''A National Mobility Project'' (column, Oct. 31) when he said developing a long-term strategy to address our nation's infrastructure should be a top priority for our next president. 
 Our economy cannot prosper if our transportation infrastructure lacks sufficient capacity. As the American population grows, so will the demand for transportation services; in fact, the Department of Transportation has projected that demand will rise 92 percent by 2035. 
 Without a strong, healthy transportation system in place to meet this demand, American businesses won't be able to import and export goods efficiently, and our ability to compete in a global economy will be hindered. 
 It's imperative that the next president make addressing our nation's infrastructure needs an urgent priority when he arrives in Washington. In addition to repairing our nation's aging highways and bridges, a smart plan should not overlook the importance of expanding capacity on the freight rail network to ensure productivity growth and the efficient and economical movement of freight. Norman Mineta 
 Washington, Nov. 3, 2008
 The writer is a former secretary of transportation in the Bush administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); RAIL FREIGHT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



278 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Losses Mount, Fears Overwhelm, and a Life-Ending Decision Is Made

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Walter Buczynski was a top executive at a Maryland mortgage lender before he killed his wife and jumped off a bridge last January.
 K. Upender was a distraught stock speculator in India who suffered steep losses in the Indian stock market this fall, according to the police, just before he chose to open the gas line in his house, light a match and kill himself, his wife and his 2-year-old son.
 Mr. Buczynski, 59, who lived in an affluent suburb in New Jersey and made close to $330,000 in 2007, and Mr. Upender, a 32-year-old former stock broker who had taken to trading stocks out of his home in Hyderabad, a fast-growing city in central India, were worlds apart.
 What they had in common was a livelihood in the financial industry, a wrenching downturn in that industry and death by their own hands. 
 The reason for a suicide, particularly one that also involves homicide, is never cut and dried. Mr. Buczynski, for example, left a note saying that problems with his marriage caused him to kill himself and his wife. 
 Although there are no hard statistics yet to show an increase in suicides related to the financial crisis, anecdotal reports are coming from around the globe. 
 As markets continue to tumble worldwide, with the prospect of a deep global recession to follow, some experts predict suicide could increase as those who once enjoyed the fruits of a global asset boom watch their fortunes evaporate in the broadest and most abrupt destruction of wealth since the great crash of 1929.
 Suicide reports have come from a wide variety of places, involving a diverse range of people. A chief executive of an Arizona-based commercial lender wore a tuxedo, swallowed pills and lay down to die in June as his company collapsed. A suburban stock broker in Connecticut jumped from an 11th-story window in July; a private equity financier based in London leapt in front of a train in August. 
 And last month, a onetime dot-com millionaire shot five family members and himself in an upscale neighborhood in Los Angeles, blaming the financial crisis for his woes.
 Those deaths are the most extreme manifestations of a wider mental health challenge presented by the economic malaise. 
 ''The majority of the calls I am getting now are from people overly stressed over their finances,'' said Daniel J. Reidenberg, a psychologist and the executive director of SAVE, a Minneapolis-based suicide prevention organization. ''And I have talked to business executives as well as people who have just lost their jobs. The severity of the credit crunch is causing people to engage in more extreme behavior.''
 While stories of financial executives jumping from tall buildings on Wall Street during the 1929 crash have long been part of the popular lore, experts and academics say there were only a few instances of such behavior as the market plunged.
 Most of that era's suicides came in the years after the crash as the Great Depression gathered steam.
 ''My research showed that a lot of people committed suicide in the privacy of their own homes as their fortunes and reputations were depleted,'' said Selwyn Parker, the author of ''The Great Crash.'' ''It happened all over the world -- in New York, the bushes of Australia, Germany and Austria.''
 In fact, the highest suicide rate recorded in the United States was 17 out of 100,000 people in 1932, when unemployment peaked at 25 percent. That compares with 11 out of 100,000 people in 2005, the most recent year for which data is available. The reported total in 2005 was 32,637.
 Anecdotally, it would seem that more finance-related suicides stem from people losing their homes in foreclosures. However, the smaller cluster of executives who have taken their lives suggests that the global collapse of asset values has been enough to persuade some people of means and high position that their lives were without hope.
 Steven Stack, a leading researcher of suicide trends at Wayne State University, said that Emile Durkheim, the French sociologist, reached a conclusion more than 100 years ago that holds true today. ''His argument was that those who are the highest suicide risk are those with the greatest fortunes who lose the most and have the furthest to fall,'' Mr. Stack said.
 Scott Coles, the 48-year-old chief executive of Mortgages Inc., an aggressive lender to some of Arizona's largest commercial development projects, experienced that kind of precipitous downturn.
 He became a multimillionaire by signing off on large commercial loans that were financed by high-yielding mortgage investments -- a business strategy that resulted in the collapse of his company and of his prominent reputation.
 The police ruled his death in June a suicide, and his company filed for bankruptcy later that month.
 At 82, Edwin Rachleff was nearing the end of his long career as a broker, most recently running A. G. Edwards's New London branch in Connecticut. He was a pillar of his local community and had been married to his wife of 60 years.
 But on July 28, one of his main clients, the $12 million New London Security Federal Credit Union, was declared insolvent by regulators and shut down. That day, he leapt to his death from the 11th floor of a building.
 Investigators are examining his ties to the defunct credit union.
 Mr. Rachleff left no note, but he was said to be upset over his worsening eyesight and the possibility that he might lose his broker's license.
 When Kirk Stephenson, 47, jumped in front of the morning commuter train that would have taken him from his country home to his office in London, he left no note either.
 Friends and family were in shock, as there were no evident signs of distress from Mr. Stephenson, who was married and had an 8-year-old son.
 While no public explanation has been given, his death came in late September, as Olivant, the small investment company where he worked as chief operating officer, was confronted with the news that substantial assets it held at Lehman Brothers would not be recovered anytime soon because of the investment bank's bankruptcy.
 Karthik Rajaram, 45, who had founded an Internet business incubator, was an out-of-work investor living in an upscale Los Angeles neighborhood when he fatally shot his three children, wife and mother-in-law before turning the gun on himself in early October. In a letter addressed to the police found at the site of the shootings, Mr. Rajaram blamed economic hardships for his actions.
 Although research is scant, Howard Brenner, a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health in Baltimore, says that at higher income levels, those suffering financial distress will on occasion lash out at those closest to them.
 ''If these people are not alive,'' Mr. Brenner said, ''they will not be in a position to rebuke the head of household or suffer further embarrassment.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a potential rise in suicides attributable to the economic downturn misstated the name of a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health who commented on the behavior of high-income people in financial distress. He is M. Harvey Brenner, not Howard Brenner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Coles, 48, killed himself as his company faltered.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BLACKTIE-ARIZONA)
Karthik Rajaram, 45, was an out-of-work money manager.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The house in Los Angeles where Karthik Rajaram killed five of his family and himself
 in a letter, he cited economic strife.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SUBURBS (75%); HOMICIDE (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); ARIZONA, USA (68%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



279 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Demise of Same-Sex Weddings Disheartens Businesses

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
A week before Election Day, Christopher Burnett's floral shop filled an order for one of the many same-sex weddings he has worked in the last five months: eight corsages, a dozen boutonnieres and two bouquets for the two brides, each with three dozen roses.
 Now, Mr. Burnett said, since Tuesday's voter approval of Proposition 8, which amended the state's Constitution to recognize only marriages between men and women, that type of business is gone. 
 ''I have done a gay wedding every week,'' he said. ''And so it's very disheartening, because other business is very slow.'' 
 Even as opponents of the measure officially conceded defeat on Thursday, California business owners -- particularly those in the marriage business -- were trying to determine how many wedding cakes would now go unsold and how many tuxedos unrented.
 Arturo Cobos, a manager at Kard Zone in the city's traditionally gay Castro neighborhood, said he had done ''big sales'' of same-sex wedding cards and other trinkets since marriages began in June, but had recently stopped stocking new goods. 
 ''We were afraid that they would pass Proposition 8,'' Mr. Bobos said, ''and that's exactly what happened.''
 In Palm Springs, another gay-friendly city, Mayor Steve Pougnet said he had performed 115 same-sex weddings since June, when such ceremonies began, some of which had as many as 180 guests. By contrast, this week the city has canceled eight planned ceremonies. 
 ''That's a huge economic impact, which is gone in these difficult economic times,'' said Mr. Pougnet, who is openly gay and married his partner in September. 
 Another mayor, Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, was blunt.
 ''It's a great day for Massachusetts,'' Mr. Newsom said, referring to one of only two remaining states to allow same-sex marriage. The other, Connecticut, legalized such unions in October.
 The approval of Proposition 8 comes even as the state is suffering through another bout of bad economic news. On Thursday, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who opposed Proposition 8, in part on economic grounds, announced that the state's budget deficit had already swelled to $11.2 billion for the coming year, and called the Legislature back into session and proposed higher taxes to address the budget problems. 
 David Paisley, a San Francisco-based marketing executive with a specialty in gay tourism, said California had four of the nation's top 10 destinations for gay travelers: San Francisco, Palm Springs, Los Angeles and San Diego.
 Mr. Paisley said that it was too early to speculate on the exact economic impact of Proposition 8, but that some public relations damage might have already been done.
 ''California has always been perceived on the vanguard of gay-friendly destinations,'' he said. ''Well, when a ballot measure passes says it's not, it's terrible publicity for gay and lesbian tourism.''
 Frank Schubert, the campaign manager for Protect Marriage, the leading group behind Proposition 8, said any potential impact, or the specter of bad press, was overstated. 
 ''This is an issue of restoring the institution of marriage as it always existed,'' said Mr. Schubert, noting that same-sex marriage had only briefly been legal. ''I can't imagine that returning to the history of 4,000 years before that is going to cause an economic upheaval.'' 
 In June, the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, which studies sexual orientation and the law, estimated that legalizing same-sex ceremonies in the state would result in about $63.8 million in government tax and fee revenue over three years. 
 Several civil rights and gay rights groups said Thursday that they had asked the State Supreme Court, which legalized same-sex marriage in May, to bar the carrying out of Proposition 8, which went into effect as soon as the result of the referendum was known. San Francisco tourism officials, meanwhile, said they would continue to push the city as a destination for ''commitment ceremonies and other celebrations of partnership.''
 All of which gave a small measure of hope to merchants like Mr. Burnett, who said he would miss the extra work. ''Unless,'' he said, ''we get gay marriages back.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the economic impact of California's newly passed Constitutional amendment barring same-sex marriage misspelled the surname of a manager at a store in San Francisco that sells same-sex wedding cards. He is Arturo Cobos, not Bobos.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kard Zone, a card shop in the Castro district of San Francisco, displayed items that had been popular with gay couples.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); FLORISTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



280 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW INTREPID SEA, AIR & SPACE MUSEUM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Military Muscle Retooled, Ready for Tourist Action

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The best place fully to grasp the nature of the U.S.S. Intrepid -- the aircraft carrier turned museum that, after two years and $115 million of repairs and redesign is reopening on Saturday at Pier 86 along the Hudson -- is not inside this floating museum at all. The best place is standing outside on the 900-foot-long flight deck from which planes and helicopters departed for dangerous sorties beginning in the darkest days of World War II and ending during the also-dark times of the Vietnam War. 
 It is here, where generations of warplanes and helicopters are now silhouetted against the New York skyline, that you begin to grasp the expanse of time and space this warship embraces and the scale of enterprise and battle it represents. Looking at the vintage aircraft, you can't help but feel amazed on multiple fronts: at the scope of the ambition; at the sophisticated feats of engineering; at the hours of combat and suffering once associated with such polished mechanisms. 
 Descend from that deck, and you can begin to appreciate something else about this ship. More time has passed since the Intrepid saw battle than the years it spent as a commissioned warship. These most recent years, however, have held challenges of their own. As is told in a history of the carrier being published to coincide with the reopening -- ''Intrepid: The Epic Story of America's Most Legendary Warship,'' by Bill White and Robert Gandt (with a foreword by John McCain, who served on the Intrepid) -- despite visionary leadership and bountiful donations, the Intrepid has had an often troubled passage in its transformation from an instrument of war to an instrument of learning. 
 Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher, among the nation's most generous military philanthropists, contributed millions of dollars to the ship's refurbishing. Now both dead, they are paid homage in a special gallery, so generous were their efforts for the Intrepid and elsewhere on behalf of the armed forces. But in 1982, when the museum opened, the nearby piers were in dismal disrepair; it was debated whether the area could ever be a tourist destination. The Intrepid survived five kamikaze attacks during the Second World War, but it was nearly defeated by far less deadly challenges: in 1985 the museum filed for bankruptcy. 
 It came back to life of course. But more recently another financial crisis was narrowly averted. The ship and its pier needed extensive restoration and new exhibition strategies. Money was raised, and two years ago the 40,000-ton ship was hauled to Bayonne Dry Dock and Repair in New Jersey and then to the Homeport on Staten Island, for an overhaul as the pier too was being improved. Last month the ship was towed home, and at a pre-opening inspection this week it seemed nearly ready for its latest mission. The museum (which is raising admission for adults by $3, to $19.50) hopes for one million visitors a year, including 100,000 children, half of whom will come on school trips and will use the ship's handsome new classrooms overlooking the Hudson River. For Veterans Day ceremonies on Tuesday President Bush is scheduled to join New York politicians at the ship, formally called the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum. 
 This latest tour of the ship is largely a triumph; the museum features three words from its mission statement and takes them seriously: Honor. Educate. Inspire. There are some serious flaws, but they are flaws of omission rather than commission and may, in time, be modified. But there is also more than enough here to appreciate. 
 You start your own tour of the Intrepid in an interior hangar deck that spans the length of the ship (which, one display points out, is almost equal to the height of the Chrysler Building). At the front of the Intrepid the fo'c'sle (pronounced FOKE-sul, it refers to the forecastle of the ship) provides visitors glimpses of the officers' quarters, the walls painted a sickly lime green that in these tight spaces seems discomfiting but which the museum's curator, John Zukowsky, assures me was the color thought least likely to promote sea sickness. 
 These spaces are now crisper than similar restorations I recall from the museum's past incarnation. But what is really new is an extensive exhibition (designed by Eva Maddox of Eva Maddox Branded Environments/Perkins + Will Architects) chronicling the Intrepid's history: its construction in 18 months during World War II, its participation in that war's 82-day Battle of Okinawa, its place in cold-war maneuvers and training, its use in recovering astronauts from Mercury and Gemini space missions and its three tours of duty during the Vietnam War. 
 Visitors are given an understanding of both the humanity and the hardware behind the ship's history. One long aisle presents the ship as floating city (pop. 3,388), with uniforms, a barber chair, memorabilia. Then there are exhibits, including an enormous 27,000-pound propeller, and planes like the Grumman TBM-3E Avenger, the Navy's standard torpedo bomber throughout World War II. Interactive screens display timelines and ship schematics. 
 But one of the biggest draws for those not particularly well versed in the capabilities, say, of a McDonnell F-4N Phantom or a Grumman F-11 Tiger is the new Exploreum. Its displays are meant to be touched and climbed, pushed and entered. You can crawl into a typically sized crew member's bunk too narrow to roll over in and stacked too close for occupants to sit up. You can scramble up a cargo net, practice Morse code, sit in a helicopter complete with sound effects. 
 The cleverest display may be a wind-blasted area in which 12 huge fans blow air as if through a wind tunnel. Visitors can don a set of wings of appropriate curvature and feel the lift on which all flight relies -- a phenomenon explained by accompanying diagrams. 
 Those who prefer sensation without as much explanation can sit inside enclosed two-seat flight simulators that turn and twirl like tin cans, manipulated by the visitors inside, who have the experience of sitting in a cockpit, sending their planes into loops and firefights. Nearby, a ''4-D'' theater may have the least to do with the museum's subject and the most to do with sheer amusement: viewed through supplied glasses, the 3-D film races through a virtual roller-coaster ride in an otherworldly landscape as the plastic seats rock and jerk, your eyes tricking your body into queasiness. 
 In a way, though, that ride's preoccupation with sensation offers an extreme example of the museum's biggest weakness: it is so focused on the sensations of the ship, on the mechanics of living and the mechanisms of fighting, that almost no larger context is provided. Brief historical videos are incorporated into some of the exhibitions, showing, for example, how planes landed on the carrier, or showing the ship in battle. But proportions are off. There is scarcely a sense here of what World War II was about, or why carriers like the Intrepid were being built. As for the ship's involvement in the cold war or Vietnam, there is little explanation and no exploration. You are left with a technocratic understanding of war rather than a historically informed perspective. The commissioned life of the Intrepid spanned the decades of shock and challenge, but here it seems to drift on its own, at sea. 
 Perhaps in time the museum's curators will come to feel similarly. In the meantime I plan to return, if only to stand on the flight deck. Looking out on these fearsome and elegant pieces of hardware -- including a robust Sikorsky S-55 helicopter (which the museum bought on eBay!) and an ominous black Lockheed A-12 spy plane -- framed by the Manhattan skyline, you can see in one humbling glance the great institutional technologies of the 20th century, the extraordinary mechanisms of war and constructions of peace, in stunning and unsettling juxtaposition.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A museum review on Nov. 7 about the aircraft carrier Intrepid, at Pier 86 on the Hudson River, referred incompletely to a World War II Avenger torpedo bomber on display. While the Avengers were designed and originally built by Grumman, production was expanded to the Eastern Aircraft division of General Motors, which built the plane on display.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN /THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Exhibits show how the U.S.S. Intrepid served the nation for decades.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The U.S.S. Intrepid is nearly as long as the Chrysler Building is tall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD ROTHSTEIN)(pg. C36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (91%); NAVAL VESSELS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); TOURISM (67%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



281 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Reports Keep Markets in Free Fall

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Bettina Wassener and Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The political world shifted on Tuesday, but the change did little to ease the anxiety on Wall Street.
Despite stabilization in the credit markets and lower interest rates around the globe, the last two days were the worst in the American stock market since 1987. In 48 hours, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped nearly 1,000 points, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader measure of stocks, lost nearly 10 percent of its value.
''Normally markets are driven by fear and greed,'' said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management in New York. ''Now it's fear and fear.'' 
There were no clear catalysts that spurred the sell-off -- which dragged the Dow lower on Thursday by 443.48 points -- beyond the regular drumbeat of poor earnings from the corporate sector and bleak data on the economy. Those reports have been arriving almost daily for the last few weeks, signs of a recession that many fear will be darker than anyone imagined just a year ago.
But the mantra on Wall Street was that the pain was being ''priced in'' -- that is, investors had sold stocks in anticipation of weaker earnings and stingier spending. The cataclysmic losses of October, the worst month on Wall Street since 1987, were supposed to reflect the defensive moves of an investor class buckling down for the pain to come. With that out of the way, it was time for the market to stabilize.
Instead, investors appear to be betting that the worst is yet to come. Stocks that rallied after hitting a year-to-date low on Oct. 27 are heading south again, veering toward a new bottom. The trends suggest that investors remain remarkably skittish. Shares of banks fell on Thursday by 7 to 10 percent, single-day swings that would have been unthinkable a short time ago. These days, fleeting headlines can move the market just as much as interest rate cuts and major economic data.
On Thursday, the bad news came in the form of slumping sales at the nation's retailers, a harbinger of a holiday shopping season that could be the worst in years, according to industry analysts.
Not helping matters: a bleak forecast from Cisco Systems, the networking giant, and comments from an executive at General Motors that suggested the company was struggling to survive.
Investors may also have been selling ahead of Friday's report on the job market, which economists say will be grim. The Labor Department is expected to report that employers cut hundreds of thousands more jobs in October, bringing the simmering problems in the labor market to a full boil.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 8,695.79, down 4.9 percent, its lowest finish since Oct. 28, after swinging in a 518-point range. The S.& P. lost 47.89 points, or 5 percent, to 904.88, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 72.94 points, or 4.3 percent, to 1,608.70.
''The market already knows the economy is pretty sick,'' Meg Browne, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, said. ''But there is attention being paid to tomorrow's jobs numbers. We think they'll be much worse than the market forecast.''
The declines on Wall Street came despite sharp reductions in foreign interest rates by central banks seeking to further ease the tight credit markets. The Bank of England lowered its benchmark rate by 1.5 percentage points, more than analysts had expected, and the European Central Bank cut rates by half a percentage point.
Credit markets also showed some improvements. The amount of outstanding commercial paper -- short-term i.o.u.'s used by businesses and banks for daily expenses -- were up for a second week, rising $50.5 billion, to $1.6 trillion. That is down from the peak in July 2007, but a significant improvement from last month, when the market for such financing virtually froze up.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill rose 4/32, to 102 17/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.69 percent, down from 3.70 percent late Wednesday.
The South Korean central bank joined in the rate activity on Friday morning, cutting its benchmark rate by a quarter point, its third reduction in a month.
Nevertheless, the Kospi stock index in South Korea was down more than 3 percent in early trading. Other Asian indexes also fell. The Nikkei in Japan was down 5 percent, and the S.& P./ASX index in Australia fell 3.8 percent.
Oil prices dropped $4.53, to $60.77 a barrel.
The Labor Department said on Thursday that new claims for unemployment benefits declined last week by 4,000, to 481,000; readings above 400,000 are considered recessionary. The agency also said that worker productivity grew at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in the third quarter, down from a 3.6 percent growth rate in the second quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Specialists at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq all fell by more than 4 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B9) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Shows daily market activity.
 The Favorites (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); CHEMICALS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (51%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



282 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Once Sizzling, China's Economy Shows Rapid Signs of Fizzling

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Guangzhou. Chen Yang contributed research.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Each new forecast of China's economic fortunes predicts slower growth than the forecast that preceded it.
 Just as China attained supercharged growth that astounded much of the world, it appears to be slowing more sharply and more quickly than anyone anticipated.
 ''It's tough to be optimistic,'' said Stephen Green, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. ''The three engines of growth -- exports, investment and consumption -- have all slowed down.'' 
 The signs are so troubling that last week Prime Minister Wen Jiabao warned that this year would be ''the worst in recent years for our economic development.''
 A series of government reports released over the last few weeks indicated that China's export juggernaut was moderating. Real estate construction projects are being suspended. Consumer confidence is in decline. And many factories in southern China are closing, putting tens of thousands of migrant laborers out of work.
 Some Chinese companies have even reported that Christmas orders -- which were supposed to be placed in late summer or early fall -- were down 20 percent this year, as big retailers and toy marketers grew gloomy about the holiday season. 
 Until recently, many economists had insisted that China was insulated from the global financial crisis rippling through the United States and Europe, and that the Chinese Communist Party had the tools to keep the economy chugging along. But newly released data suggests that nearly every sector of the economy is slowing and credit is tightening in a nation that has grown accustomed to sizzling hot growth.
 While few economists expect China to fall into recession, analysts are forecasting the worst growth in more than a decade, with the economy expected to expand by as little as 5.8 percent in the fourth quarter this year, down from about 11 percent in 2007.
 Analysts worry that a sharp downturn could undermine the country's already weakening investment climate and impair some of China's biggest banks, which have bankrolled much of the boom.
 Beijing worries that if growth slows to 8 percent or less, not enough jobs will be created in a country that is rapidly urbanizing -- and that could lead to social unrest. 
 To prevent that, the government is preparing a large economic stimulus package, pushing new infrastructure projects, offering aid to exporters and searching for ways to prop up the nation's severely depressed stock and real estate markets.
 Less than six months ago, the government's chief concerns were soaring inflation and an economy that was growing too fast.
 Now, inventories are piling up around the country as domestic and foreign demand for Chinese goods slackens. In southern China, the government has had to step in to aid migrant workers after factory closures.
 Indeed, when the Canton Trade Fair ended this week in the city of Guangzhou, orders at one of the biggest events for Chinese products were down significantly, and so were visitors, according to participants.
 But it is not just export-oriented factories that are being hit. Companies that sell in China are also suffering because investment projects are being postponed and consumers are pulling back on major purchases. 
 After five years of growth over 10 percent, China's growth rate has decelerated for five consecutive quarters, dropping from 12.6 percent in the second quarter of 2007 to about 9 percent the third quarter of this year.
 That growth rate is still strong, but economists say the downturn began sharpening in the last two months. At many factories, large Christmas orders were canceled.
 Earlier this week, the government announced that China's purchase management index, which is used to measure the country's economic performance, fell in October to its lowest level since it began compiling data in 2005, indicating that orders of all kinds had fallen sharply.
 Auto sales in China have plummeted this year. Air travel is in decline. Property sales have dried up, and weakness in the property market is hitting the makers of steel, cement and glass.
 ''There is a nose dive in real estate construction in south China and east China, the two real estate boom areas,'' said Yang Dongsen, a cement industry analyst at Merchant Securities. The real estate slowdown is expected to affect retail sales, which for the last few years had been lifted by new-home buyers purchasing appliances, decorations and other household goods.
 It does not help that China's stock markets have also collapsed, after a stunning rise in 2006 and 2007. Share prices in Hong Kong are down about 50 percent, and the Shanghai composite index has fallen 67 percent this year, wiping out nearly all the gains it had made in the previous two years.
 Many economists say they believe that government stimulus packages will stabilize China's economy and prevent an even steeper decline in growth, and that the economy could pick up steam by the second half of 2009.
 Still, many economists say times have changed for a while. 
 ''Don't count on China to get back to double-digit growth for the next few years,'' said Dong Tao, an economist at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christmas orders were down 20 percent this year, as big retailers and toy marketers grew gloomy about the holiday season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); URBANIZATION (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); RETAILERS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); TRADE SHOWS (50%)

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (57%); REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION & FABRICATION CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC1771 CONCRETE WORK (56%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



283 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5815 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. (See above.) (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Ken Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through March 22. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. A related show, ''The Poetics of Cloth: African Textiles/Recent Art,'' is at the Grey Art Gallery at New York University. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'GIORGIO MORANDI, 1890-1964,' through Dec. 14. Aspirants to the role of painter as poet are many. Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964) was the real thing. And this Morandi retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is something that anyone who loves painting and its very specific poetry will want to see. Morandi's still lifes are beautiful, but with a distinctive kind of beauty. And despite their small size and plain components -- bottles, jars, boxes, pots, seashells, vases -- they are emotionally audacious. This isn't because of what they say outright, but because of what they don't say; because they are so evidently shaped by self-restraint, and the passions that produced it. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'RHYTHMS OF MODERN LIFE: BRITISH PRINTS 1914-1939,' through Dec. 7. This interesting but confusingly organized exhibition considers the impact of modernity and machine-age idealism on 13 progressive British printmakers. Much of the show is given over to a group of artists active in the 1920s and '30s -- including Claude Flight, Cyril E. Power and Sybil Andrews -- who created colorful linocuts in a lively synthesis of Cubism, Futurism and Art Deco. (See above.) (Ken Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: JOHN MILTON'S 'PARADISE LOST,' through Jan. 4. To honor Milton's quadricentennial, eight of the pages of the only known surviving manuscript of Book 1 of ''Paradise Lost'' are on view, along with other Miltoniana, including a first edition and a miniature portrait believed to be of the poet. The handwriting is a scribe's; Milton, who was blind, composed the work orally. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through Feb. 15. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937,' through Jan. 12. When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Karen Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. (See above.) (Johnson)
 SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE: 'AARON DOUGLAS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN MODERNIST,' through Nov. 30. In 1920s New York a great flowering of black culture emerged that came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. No visual artist expressed that movement's euphoric sense of possibility with greater verve than the subject of this valuable exhibition, the painter, illustrator and muralist Aaron Douglas. His major works feature semitransparent silhouettes of black people in heroic poses overlaid by concentric, circular bands of light. Rendered in muted, luminous colors, they project visionary romanticism in a suave, Art Deco-like style. 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200, nypl.org/research/sc. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 LIZA LOU It's no coincidence that Liza Lou's first New York appearance since a 2002 solo in SoHo takes place in an uptown town house and a Park Avenue lobby. Ms. Lou, a sculptor who makes hand-beaded versions of everyday objects and environments, has shifted from immersive installations (like the ''Kitchen'' and ''Back Yard'' exhibited at the New Museum in the mid-'90s) to highly marketable sculptures and relief paintings. The transition isn't all bad. Ms. Lou's beadwork is still dazzling, and she is certainly experimenting with different genres. The showstopper is ''Security Fence'' (2005-7), a shimmering 10-foot-square enclosure of barbed wire and chain-link steel completely covered with silver beads. (A similar sculpture, ''Maximum Security Fence,'' is on view in the lobby of Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 54th Street, through Nov. 29.) L & M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com; through Nov. 15 (Karen Rosenberg)
 'PICASSO'S MARIE-THEReSE' In 2006 Steve Wynn, of Las Vegas casino fame, was set to sell ''The Dream,'' a Picasso he owned, for the record price of $139 million. Then one day, while showing the collection to friends, he put his elbow through the painting. The sale was off; the picture was patched. Now it's the centerpiece of a gallery show with several other paintings of Marie-Therese Walter, Picasso's lover, with most of them on loan from museums. Close inspection reveals no visible trace of the elbow malfunction in Mr. Wynn's picture, though it does reaffirm Picasso's penchant for producing kitsch. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; through Nov. 29. (Cotter)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 GREGORY AMENOFF: 'PAINTINGS' In most of Mr. Amenoff's robustly painted, easel-scale landscapes, a large, mysterious form -- botanical, geological or geometric -- looms up close against a distant vista. Color and contrasts of light and dark are pumped up to visionary effect. The show is stolen, however, by a series of glowing paintings of flowers made with a loose, prehensile touch on 10-inch-square panels. Alexandre Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 755-2828, alexandregallery.com, through Nov. 15. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 KATARZYNA KOZYRA: 'SUMMERTALE' This Polish multimedia provocateur offers a zany 20-minute film telling a murderous, fairy-tale-like story about a quintet of midget women who live in a rustic cottage and three full-grown people who emerge from giant mushrooms: a tall, red-haired drag queen, a male opera singer and an innocent girl played by Ms. Kozyra. It is, by turns, funny, mysterious and horrific. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com, through Nov. 15. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 SARAH BEDDINGTON: 'CROSSING' This multimedia solo show by Ms. Beddington, a British artist, evokes the journey of the Experiment, the second sailing ship to make a direct crossing from the United States to China at the end of the 18th century. A 20-foot-long silverpoint map traces the voyage down the Hudson River from Albany, where the ship was built; a three-channel video follows the voyage at sea, mixing past and present, reality and mirage; a sound piece adds maritime atmosphere. The gallery setting, in an area of Brooklyn once associated with shipping, is ideal. Dumbo Arts Center, 30 Washington Street, Brooklyn, (718) 694-0831, dumboartscenter.org, through Nov. 16. (Cotter)
 KIRK HAYES: 'LAUNCHED TO SINK' Mr. Hayes's works appear to be collages made of torn pieces of paper and cardboard, masking tape and bits of wood. Look closely, however, and you discover that, amazingly, most of what you see is actually carefully painted. While intimating bitter-sweet, obliquely autobiographical narratives, Mr. Hayes's works slyly comment on modern art's love of the raw and the naive. Sunday L.E.S., 237 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0700, sundaynyc.com; through Nov. 16. (Johnson)
 NASREEN MOHAMEDI: 'THE GRID, UNPLUGGED' This show of large, abstract drawings is the third New York solo of work by the Indian artist Nasreen Mohamedi (1937-1990), and the most beautiful yet, which means it's as about as beautiful as gallery shows get. Born to a Muslim family, Mohamedi studied art in London and Paris and was fully conversant with contemporary art in the West. Her major influences, though, were Islamic architecture, the modern urban landscape and fellow South Asian artists working in abstract, linear styles. This deeply moving show also includes digital excerpts from her poetic notebooks. Talwar Gallery, 108 East 16th Street, (212) 673-3096, talwargallery.com, through Nov. 15. (Cotter)
 'THE POETICS OF CLOTH' Emphasizing the place of traditional textiles in works by contemporary African artists, this exhibition includes internationally renowned figures like the Nigerian-born Yinka Shonibare and the Ghanaian El Anatsui. One of the show's discoveries, Grace Ndiritu, uses printed fabrics in an evocative four-screen video installation -- allowing her bare limbs to peek out from behind curtains or posing as a mummified Olympia. A related show, ''The Essential Art of African Textiles: Design Without End,'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 6. (Rosenberg) 
 TADASKY In the 1960s Tadasky (Tadasuke Kuwayama) painted optically captivating compositions of concentric rings on square canvases. Excellent examples are included in a retrospective exhibition in D. Wigmore's ''Four Optic Visionaries,'' which also features works by Richard Anuszkiewicz, Sue Fuller and Mon Levinson, who were all included, along with Tadasky, in the Museum of Modern Art's famous 1965 exhibition ''The Responsive Eye.'' D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com, through Nov. 15. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'R. CRUMB'S UNDERGROUND,' through Dec. 7. The former underground comic artist R. Crumb has created some of the most memorable characters in cartoon history, including the irascible guru Mr. Natural; the suave, shamelessly randy Fritz the Cat; the angry Amazon Devil Girl; and R. Crumb himself, a figure comparable to the autobiographical alter-egos of Woody Allen and Philip Roth. He has been a fearlessly irreverent satirist and an intrepid explorer of his own twisted psyche. And he is excruciatingly funny. This enthralling show presents more than 100 works from all phases of his five-decade career. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'JAN LIEVENS: A DUTCH MASTER REDISCOVERED,' through Jan. 11. Although not a household name now, Jan Lievens once was famous throughout Northern Europe for his portraits and his religious and history paintings. A child prodigy, he was a friend and colleague of Rembrandt's. Early in their careers, the two painters worked closely together, and many of Lievens's paintings later were misattributed to Rembrandt. Lievens was not Rembrandt's equal, but he had his moments, especially in remarkably precocious paintings that he made as a teenager. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 'ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM: A WORLD ELSEWHERE' A gallery chain based in London and owned by an auction house opens in New York in an overdone, chopped-up space with a shapeless, absurdly unnecessary exhibition of paintings and sculptures by those mythic market stalwarts, the leaders of the New York School. Under crowded (auction-house-like) conditions await exceptional works by Clyfford Still, Franz Kline, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, David Smith and more, often lent by museums. That nothing is for sale is meant to impress, but it doesn't do much to reduce the aura of commercial savvy, or the sense that a history recounted often and better elsewhere is being told yet again for all the wrong reasons. Haunch of Venison, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, near 49th Street, (212) 636-2034, haunchofvenison.com; closes on Wednesday. (Smith)
 DOUG AITKEN In a circular white room, all-blue, geometric watercolors are displayed, resembling a set from ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 OLAF BREUNING A found-object sculpture in this entertaining show consists of a scale balancing a bucketful of soft pink rubber breasts and a stack of old books. If this piece, titled ''The Big Challenge,'' strikes you as a funny and possibly profound meditation on the tension between the body and the mind, then Mr. Breuning's comical, often philosophically engaging exhibition of sculpture, large-scale photographs and small cartoon drawings is for you. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com; closes on Saturday. ( Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'KIRCHNER AND THE BERLIN STREET' Focusing on seven paintings produced between 1913 and 1915 by the German Expressionist Ernst Ludwig Kirchner (1880-1938), this exhibition delivers a terrific visual wallop at the start and then continues to reverberate. Vigorously realized in jagged brush strokes of lurid pinks, greens and yellows and shades of charcoal black, the paintings depict stylishly dressed female streetwalkers and furtive, darkly cloaked men on the nocturnal, vertiginously tilted streets of an infernal city on the brink of a world-destroying war. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIPE, GLASS, BOTTLE OF RUM: THE ART OF APPROPRIATION' More than 100 works, mostly from the museum's drawing collection, represent many different ways of importing nontraditional images, materials, forms and techniques into the realm of art. The exhibition ranges from early Cubist collages by Picasso, Braques and Gris that have newsprint and faux-wood grain paper in them to the suave, agit-prop montages of Barbara Kruger printed on matchbooks and a shopping bag. Other artists include John Baldessari, Hannah Hoch, Sigmar Polke, Sherrie Levine and Richard Prince. (See above.) Closes on Monday. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WUNDERKAMMER: A CENTURY OF CURIOSITIES' This exhibition of mostly prints and illustrated books gives too much space to artists in the Modern's pantheon or to predictable midmarket bench warmers. But it is inspired by a very un-Modern idea: the Renaissance wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities, a free-form collection of all things rare and marvelous, natural and man-made. Sensitively installed and rife with images of living, often grotesque creatures, it has the buzz of an aberrant ark and enough fresh material to sustain interest. The addition of a few objects from the museum's design collection is especially smart and effective; ignoring MoMA's departmental divisions is a good thing. (See above.) Closes on Monday. (Smith)
 'OUT NOW!' The artist Anton Vidokle organized this exhibition to protest both the war in Iraq and the tepid response of American art institutions to that war. The work is tightly installed, text-intensive and hot with information. Among the contributors are the Irish journalist Patrick Cockburn; the peace activist Kathy Kelly; the writer Jalal Toufic; the artists Natasha Sadr Haghighian, Trevor Paglen and Martha Rosler; and the artist collective Friends of William Blake. E-Flux, 41 Essex Street, Lower East Side, (212) 619-3356, e-flux.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); OLYMPICS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); RELIGION (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); NIGERIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



284 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Loss of State Senate Control Seems Unlikely

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Chances that control of the New York State Senate could slip away from the Democratic Party appeared to diminish significantly on Thursday as two of the four Democrats who had threatened to align themselves with Republicans said they believed the chamber should stay in Democratic hands.
 Pedro Espada Jr. and Ruben Diaz Sr. of the Bronx said in separate interviews that in all likelihood, the Democrats would have a voting majority when the new Senate convened in January. 
 While their remarks seemed to dash Republican hopes that they could hold onto control of the Senate, which they had had for four decades, the question of who would lead the Senate Democrats remained in doubt. Tuesday's election increased the Democrats' hold to 32 of the 62 seats.
 Carl Kruger of Brooklyn, the leader of the group of dissident senators, suggested that a long fight for Senate leadership positions was ahead.
 The fourth member of the group, Hiram Monserrate, a member of the City Council who will begin his first term as a state senator in January, did not respond to messages left at his office or with his spokeswoman, Bridget Fisher.
 None of the four dissidents have said that they will support Malcolm A. Smith, who is poised to become the majority leader. Instead, the self-named Gang of Four has refused to back a candidate for leader, saying they want their concerns addressed first. Chief among those concerns, the senators have said, is having more Latino senators placed in leadership roles.
 ''This issue is not going to be resolved in the short order,'' Mr. Kruger said. ''This could take several weeks; this could take several months,'' he said, adding that he believed there was some doubt within the Senate Democratic conference about whether Mr. Smith should be the leader. 
 ''And that's not going be solved because Malcolm wants to divvy up the committee chairmanships,'' Mr. Kruger added. ''There needs to be a retooling of the leadership.''
 The demands of the four senators could set off a reshuffling of positions within the entire Senate leadership. Everything from majority leader and deputy majority leader to lower-ranking posts like assistant whip could be in flux.
 While Mr. Kruger said he could not yet rule out a deal with Senate Republicans, the comments from Mr. Espada and Mr. Diaz suggested that the chances for a Republican-led Senate were slim.
 Their comments reflect two political realities facing the four senators: They all represent overwhelmingly Democratic districts, and at the moment, a majority of voters in New York prefer Democrats, as evidenced by the state's overwhelming vote for Barack Obama and the statewide defeat of Republican candidates.
 ''Everybody sitting at the table, the four amigos, are Democrats, No. 1,'' Mr. Espada said. ''That's the political reality. No. 2 is, we're not blind to what happened in the state and in the country.''
 (Still, Mr. Espada was scheduled to have dinner with Dean G. Skelos, the Republican majority leader, on Thursday night, according to a person familiar with Mr. Espada's plans.)
 Mr. Espada said that regardless of whatever infighting continued among Democrats, he believed the group of four would ultimately align with them. ''I think it will come down to a Democratic-led Senate, but one that is not punitive and one that will promote the kind of bipartisanship that should exist,'' he said. 
 Mr. Diaz echoed that sentiment. ''I think it should be Democratic, yes,'' he said in a phone interview.
 Mr. Monserrate is widely considered by Democrats and Republicans alike as the least likely to side with Republicans, given his solidly liberal record in the City Council. In addition to being a Democrat, Mr. Monserrate is also aligned with the Working Families Party, a political group that embraces liberal social and economic issues.
 Elected officials who know the four men said they were an unlikely grouping. They span the political spectrum. Mr. Diaz is a social conservative who vigorously opposes abortion and gay marriage, while Mr. Monserrate, a self-described consumer advocate and a former police officer, was a board member of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
 Mr. Diaz and Mr. Espada have a longstanding political rivalry that goes as far back as the 1990s, when their sons ran against each other for a seat in the State Assembly (Ruben Diaz Jr. won that race). In 2002, Mr. Diaz unseated Mr. Espada, in part because of anger in their district over Mr. Espada's alliance with Senate Republicans, whose conference he joined unofficially after a spat with Democrats. The two ran against each other again in 2004, with Mr. Diaz prevailing again.
 Mr. Diaz, Mr. Espada and Mr. Monserrate are Latino. Mr. Kruger is not, but has said that he stands firmly with the rest of his group in their call for more Latinos in Senate leadership positions. Mr. Kruger, who was friendly enough with Republicans that they took the highly unusual step of giving him a committee chairmanship, said he was also concerned with making sure that committee leadership assignments were not awarded solely on a partisan basis.
 ''If there's someone who has expertise in housing, why shouldn't they be in charge of housing just because they come from the wrong party?'' Mr. Kruger said.
 One Democratic senator, who was granted anonymity so he could speak openly about the tensions that the four senators have produced within the party, said he was relieved to learn that the group would apparently not join the Republicans.
 ''The notion that they would throw themselves in with Republicans is just nuts,'' the senator said. ''It was fun while it lasted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: State Senators Pedro Espada Jr., Carl Kruger, Ruben Diaz Sr. and Hiram Monserrate. All four had threatened to align themselves with Republicans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RANKINGS (84%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); CITIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



285 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Retailers See a Broad Slowdown Ahead of Holidays

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Just ahead of the crucial holiday shopping season, most of the nation's retailers reported double-digit declines in October sales on Thursday, underscoring how the financial turmoil has touched all stores, be they discount or luxury.
 The declines follow a weak September and foretell a holiday shopping season that many are characterizing as grim at best. Consumer spending over all fell 3.1 percent in the third quarter, its first decline in 17 years and the steepest fall since 1980. And the news is not likely to improve soon. On Friday, the Labor Department is expected to report that employers cut hundreds of thousands more jobs last month. 
 Among retailers, the luxury department store chain Neiman Marcus reported the deepest drop in sales at stores open at least a year, a crucial indicator also known as same-store sales. 
 October sales in Neiman's specialty retail segment, which includes Neiman Marcus Stores and Bergdorf Goodman, were down 27.6 percent, in contrast to an increase of 7.8 percent a year ago.
 Burton M. Tannsky, Neiman's chairman and chief executive, said he expected that demand would ''remain weak for an extended period of time'' as affluent consumers cope with stock market volatility. 
 Other significant falloffs came from Abercrombie & Fitch (down 20 percent compared with a same-store sales decrease of 2 percent a year ago); the Gap (down 16 percent compared with a same-store sales decline of 8 percent a year ago); and Nordstrom (down 15.7 percent compared with a same-stores sales dip of 2.4 percent a year ago).
 Several others, including Chicos, J. C. Penney, American Eagle, Zumiez, Bon-Ton, Stein Mart and Pacific Sunwear, also suffered double-digit declines. 
 Even some discount retail chains -- the one group that had been managing to tread water amid the economic slowdown -- reported declines. 
 At Costco, the discount warehouse, October sales fell 1 percent compared with a 9 percent increase for the period a year ago. 
 Sales at Big Lots fell 0.2 percent, and Target sales dropped 4.8 percent. Off-price retailers that include Ross Stores, T. J. Maxx and Kohl's also had declines. 
 ''We're starting to see the chinks in the armor of the value-oriented players who compete more on the basis of price,'' John Morris, a retail analyst with Wachovia, said. 
 Still, the few retailers that had same-store sales increases are known for low prices: Wal-Mart, BJ's Wholesale Club, Children's Place and Aeropostale.
 October same-store sales at Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, increased by 2.4 percent, not including fuel, compared with a 0.4 percent increase for the same period a year ago. Analysts had expected a 1.6 percent gain.
 Battered retailers essentially threw up their hands. Many revised or withdrew earnings guidance altogether. Macy's suddenly resumed reporting its same-store sales figures, even though it had a same-store sales decline of 6.3 percent. 
 Over all, the industry's sales numbers highlight the consumer freeze on discretionary spending, with Wal-Mart bucking the trend in large part because of its low prices on basic items. 
 ''We see more customers shopping more often at Wal-Mart,'' said Eduardo Castro-Wright, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart's United States operations. ''Customers see that we are broadening the price gap against our competitors. They saw it during Halloween season and they will continue to see it during the Christmas shopping season.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); NEIMAN MARCUS STORES (83%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (58%); ROSS STORES INC (58%); STEIN MART INC (56%); T J MAXX (52%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); ROST (NASDAQ) (58%); SMRT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



286 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2456 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 EVERY MINUTE, FOUR IDEAS: THE FILMS OF ARNAUD DESPLECHIN (Friday through Thursday) The dense, noisy, omnivorous films of this 48-year-old French filmmaker retain a youthful vitality even as they circle increasingly ominous themes of mortality. All of Mr. Desplechin's feature-length films are included in this retrospective -- ''Kings and Queen'' (Friday, Sunday and Thursday); ''My Sex Life'' (Saturday and Sunday); ''La Sentinelle'' (Monday and Thursday); the hard-to-see ''Playing 'In the Company of Men' '' (Tuesday); and the English-language ''Esther Kahn'' (Wednesday) -- building up to his latest work, ''A Christmas Tale,'' which opens next Friday. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $12. (Dave Kehr) 
 KINO 2008 (Friday through Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art's 29th annual survey of recent German films includes ''Cloud 9,'' Andreas Dresen's film about a woman in her mid-60s who finds herself drawn to an older man (Friday and Saturday); ''The Wave,'' Dennis Gansel's drama about a misguided classroom experiment in authoritarian rule (Friday and Saturday); Thomas Grube's documentary ''Trip to Asia: The Quest for Harmony,'' which follows the Berlin Philharmonic on a tour of six Asian countries (Sunday and Wednesday); Helma Sanders-Brahms biography of Clara Wieck Schumann, ''Clara'' (Wednesday); a collection of 12 short films, ''Next Generation 2007-08'' (Sunday and Thursday); and other works. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9480, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
 'ORPHANS OF THE STORM' (Tuesday) D. W. Griffith's 1921 story of the French Revolution, starring Lillian and Dorothy Gish, opens a Tuesday-night series of newly restored films from the Pordenone Silent Film Festival in Italy. At 7 p.m., BAMcinematek, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 'THE WILD CHILD' (Friday through Thursday) Long out of theatrical distribution, Francois Truffaut's 1970 film returns for a one-week run in a new 35-millimeter print. Truffaut himself plays the central character, an 18th-century doctor who tries to civilize a so-called wolf boy, found living by himself in a forest. Widely interpreted at the time of its release as Truffaut's conservative response to the radical ideologies then in fashion in post-1968 Paris, the film is a confident assertion of the Enlightenment values of reason and education. The magnificent black-and-white cinematography is by Nestor Almendros. Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $11. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'APPALOOSA' (R, 1:47) Ed Harris, who directed, stars with Viggo Mortensen, Renee Zellweger and Jeremy Irons in this sly, relaxed western, which is less concerned with gunfighting and law and order than with jealousy, friendship and the perils of frontier romance. It's a somber shoot-em-up with the mischievous soul of a sex comedy. (A. O. Scott)
 'BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA' (PG, 1:25) As multimillion-dollar frivolities about the pets of the ruling class go, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is reasonably diverting. As one released in the middle of an economic meltdown, its mere existence feels utterly insane. (Nathan Lee)
 'BODY OF LIES' (R, 2:06) Ridley Scott's new movie raises a potentially disturbing question. If terrorism has become boring, does that mean that the terrorists have won? Or, conversely, is the grinding tedium of this film good news for our side, evidence of the awesome might of Western popular culture, which can turn even the most bloodthirsty real-world villains into fodder for contrived and lifeless action thrillers? (Scott)
 'BURN AFTER READING' (R, 1:36) A predictably self-amused comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen with a tricky plot, visual style, er, to burn, but so little heart as to warrant a Jarvik 8. With George Clooney, Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHANGELING' (R, 2:01) Clint Eastwood directs Angelina Jolie in this long, shapeless tale of a mother in distress, based on the true story of Christine Collins, whose young son disappeared in Los Angeles in 1928. There are some effective scenes, but the labored period details, the flagging pace and Ms. Jolie's exhausting performance get in the way of any real intensity or insight. (Scott) 
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives. (Dargis)
 'DEAR ZACHARY: A LETTER TO A SON ABOUT HIS FATHER' (No rating, 1:35) It is impossible not to be fired up by Kurt Kuenne's incendiary cri de coeur, a personal documentary about the murder of his best friend and a polemical rant against the Canadian justice system for coddling a dangerous sociopath. (Stephen Holden)'THE DUCHESS' (PG-13, 1:45) An overstuffed, underbaked portrait of the cosseted, tightly corseted late-18th-century life of Georgiana Spencer, the Duchess of Devonshire. Saul Dibbs directs, Keira Knightley stars, and Ralph Fiennes acts. (Dargis)'EAGLE EYE' (PG-13, 1:58) Shia LaBoeuf and Michelle Monaghan on the run from something. From what? A ticked-off government computer, apparently. Did I spoil it? Sorry. I mean, you're welcome. (Scott)
 'THE EXPRESS' (PG, 2:09) Like ''Glory Road,'' ''The Great Debate'' and numerous similar movies, ''The Express'' packages a real-life story of athletic triumph and social progress into an accessible, rousing melodrama that is no less potent for being almost entirely predictable. (Scott)
 'FEAR(S) OF THE DARK' (No rating, 1:20, in French) Shot in luminous whites, pulsing blacks and gorgeous grays, this animated anthology showcases six of today's most talented graphic artists. Exploring sexual insecurity, rural superstition and sociopolitical anxieties, the stories unfold with an inventiveness that's seldom scary but never less than mesmerizing. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'FIREPROOF' (PG, 2:02) In this film aimed at the Christian market, Kirk Cameron plays a firefighter who tries to save his marriage by embarking on a faith-based regimen called the Love Dare, but his wife (Erin Bethea) seems unresponsive. It's a much better attempt to merge storytelling with faith than is usual for the genre, and the amateur cast is surprisingly good. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'THE FIRST BASKET' (No rating, 1:26) The little-known history of Jewish participation in, and influence on, the game of basketball is remembered in this functional, if narrowly interesting, history lesson. (Lee)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'HAPPY-GO-LUCKY' (R, 1:58) Happiness is a complicated, difficult matter, and for the bopping bloom at the center of Mike Leigh's generous, expansive new film -- a gurgling stream of giggles, laughs and words played by a glorious Sally Hawkins -- it's also a question of faith. (Dargis)
 'HIGH SCHOOL MUSICAL 3: SENIOR YEAR' (G, 1:40) The third chapter of this Disney musical franchise moves smoothly from the Disney Channel to the big screen. If the story is negligible, as long as the film is singing and dancing, it is irresistibly peppy froth set in wholesome teenage never-never land. (Holden)
 'I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG' (PG-13, 1:55, in French) The French novelist Philippe Claudel, making his debut as a director, shows sobriety and restraint in this story of a woman making her way back into normal life after serving a prison sentence for the murder of her son. Kristin Scott Thomas gives a remarkable lead performance, and Elsa Zylberstein as her sister is nearly as good. A climactic plot twist cheapens and diminishes the film somewhat, but it is still, for the most part, a powerful and subtle melodrama. (Scott)
 'LAKEVIEW TERRACE' (PG-13, 1:46) In this silly exercise in mock provocation, Samuel L. Jackson plays a Los Angeles police officer who terrorizes his new neighbors, a perfectly nice interracial couple played by Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington. (Scott)
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis) 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'THE MATADOR' (No rating, 1:14) Thrust forward by John Califra's uncommonly stirring score, this story of David Fandila's quest to reach 100 fights in a single season unspools with more drama than most blockbusters. Blessed with a charismatic leading man and a narrative steeped in blood and hand-to-hoof combat, the film is a Hemingway fantasy. Only the furrowed anxiety of Mr. Fandila's mother reminds us that beneath the pageantry and, yes, artistry lies a performance that many view as little more than ritualized slaughter. (Catsoulis)
 'MAX PAYNE' (PG-13, 1:40) In this video-game-based action-revenge spectacle, Mark Wahlberg battles winged creatures, drug addicts and a ruthless pharmaceutical company. Or something. (Scott)
 'MY NAME IS BRUCE' (R, 1:26) In this silly horror comedy only a cultist could love, Bruce Campbell, the star of countless B-movie thrillers, mercilessly, and for the most part witlessly, spoofs himself. (Holden)'NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST' (PG-13, 1:30) Teenagers falling in love on the tame night streets of Manhattan. As thin as an iPod Nano and as sweetly self-conscious as a Facebook page, but not without charm. (Scott)
 'NIGHTS IN RODANTHE' (PG-13, 1:37) Richard Gere and Diane Lane fumble like teenagers and mouth some pitiful, platitudinous, risible dialogue in a soggy romance directed by George C. Wolfe and based on a Nicholas Sparks book. (Dargis)
 'PRIDE AND GLORY' (R, 2:05) An extended family of Irish cops fighting, shouting and weeping in New York. Nothing you haven't seen before, but not badly directed by Gavin O'Connor, and featuring a fine, quiet performance by Noah Emmerich, who steals the picture from the designated blusterers Colin Farrell and Edward Norton. (Scott)
 'QUARANTINE' (R, 1:26) The recent resurgence of the pseudo-documentary horror movie continues with this tale of a television news team trapped in an urban apartment building whose residents are harboring a mysterious infection. Cleverly working his claustrophobic setting (and the adapted script from the Spanish movie ''[REC]''), the director, John Erick Dowdle, keeps the action tight and the injuries nasty. (Catsoulis)
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'RELIGULOUS' (R, 1:41) The comedian and outspoken religious nonbeliever Bill Maher travels the world interviewing Christians, Jews and Muslims about their beliefs, which he views as dangerous nonsense. (Holden)
 'ROCKNROLLA' (R, 1:57) In his latest, the director Guy Ritchie pumps up the volume, tilts the camera, flexes the muscle, struts the stuff for some bang bang, blah blah. (Dargis)
 'SAW V' (R, 1:39) It would be nice to be able to say that the latest installment of the ''Saw'' franchise is a revolting, nerve-racking trip into the cesspool of the human imagination, since that seems to be the general point of this undying franchise. This time around, however, the result is just plain boring, and even a little tame -- albeit by the standards of a genre that helped bring the phrase ''torture porn'' into existence. (Lee)
 'A SECRET' (No rating, 1:45, in French) Claude Miller's adaptation of Philippe Grimbert's autobiographical novel is a subtle and moving exploration of intimacy and desire in a French Jewish family before and after World War II. (Scott)
 'THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES' (PG-13, 1:50) A warm bath of folksiness, racial tolerance, life lessons and honey in South Carolina, around 1964, from Sue Monk Kidd's best seller. (Scott) 
 'SEX DRIVE' (R, 1:48) Sean Anders's aggressively puerile, fitfully amusing and sluggish teenage sex comedy reserves all its creativity for ways to revolt and ostensibly delight its target audience. (Dargis)
 'STRANDED: I'VE COME FROM A PLANE THAT CRASHED ON THE MOUNTAINS' (No rating, 2:06, in Spanish) The 16 survivors of the famous 1972 plane crash in the Andes that decimated a Uruguayan rugby team and forced them to cannibalize the corpses of the casualties to stay alive, tell their story in Gonzalo Arijon's documentary. It is an inspiring story of teamwork and solidarity. (Holden)
 'SYNECDOCHE, NEW YORK' (R, 2:04) To say that Charlie Kaufman's feature debut is one of the best films of the year or even the one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. (In other words: Go!) (Dargis)
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller (same name) is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'W.' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither a pure (nor impure) sendup of the president nor a wholesale takedown, Oliver Stone's queasily entertaining biopic reminds us what a long, strange trip it's been to the Bush White House. Josh Brolin stars as the frat boy who would be king. (Dargis)
 'WHAT JUST HAPPENED' (R, 1:50) Who cares? (Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); CHRISTMAS (68%); FESTIVALS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); THEATER (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); BERLIN, GERMANY (55%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); ASIA (68%); GERMANY (55%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



287 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Top Arkansas Court Rules Against Payday Lenders

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 

 BODY:
A 1999 state law allowing so-called payday lenders to charge high fees for short-term loans violates the State Constitution, the Arkansas Supreme Court ruled Thursday. 
 In a 6-to-0 decision, the court said the fees permitted under the 1999 Check Cashers Act were really triple-digit interest rates. The State Constitution limits interest rates on loans to 17 percent.
 ''Because that fee is in reality an amount owed to the lender in return for the use of borrowed money, we must conclude that the fees authorized clearly constitute interest,'' Justice Paul E. Danielson wrote.
 Todd Turner, a lawyer who represented the plaintiffs who challenged the Check Cashers Act, said the ruling meant it would be impossible for payday lenders to operate in the state.
 Even before Thursday's ruling, the number of payday lenders in the state has dwindled in response to threats of lawsuits from the attorney general, Dustin McDaniel. An advocacy group said in a report last month that the number of payday lenders operating in the state had dropped from 237 in March to just 33.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (95%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ARKANSAS SUPREME COURT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (57%) ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



288 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Good Regulations

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Robert E. Rubin and Jared Bernstein (''No More Economic False Choices,'' Op-Ed, Nov. 3) want ''to optimize the balance between increasing consumer protection and reducing systemic risk on the one hand, and preserving the benefits of a market-based system on the other.'' Contrasting regulations to protect consumers and reduce systemic risk with the benefits of a market-based system is an example of the ''false choices, grounded in ideology'' they write about. 
 If this dichotomy were not false, contaminated consumer products in China and the worldwide financial meltdown would count as ''benefits of a market-based system.'' Without good regulations, markets do not provide the benefits they can, indeed, do not function well at all.
 Good regulations increase the benefits from market outcomes. Bad regulations reduce them. What the United States needs is more good regulations and fewer bad regulations. ''Well-regulated free markets'' is not an oxymoron, but a necessity for good economic outcomes. Peter Diamond
 Lexington, Mass., Nov. 3, 2008
 The writer is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



289 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Report A Sales Collapse

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Sales at the nation's largest retailers fell off a cliff in October, casting fresh doubt on the survival of some chains and signaling that this will probably be the weakest Christmas shopping season in decades.
 The remarkable slowdown hit luxury chains that sell $5,000 designer dresses as badly as stores that offer $18 packs of underwear, suggesting that consumers at all income levels are snapping their wallets shut.
 Sales at Neiman Marcus, the luxury department store, dropped nearly 28 percent in October compared with the same month last year. Sales fell 20 percent at Abercrombie & Fitch, nearly 17 percent at Saks, 16 percent at Gap and nearly that much at Nordstrom.
 Of the more than two dozen major retailers that reported on Thursday, most had sales declines at stores open at least a year, the majority of the decreases in double digits. Deep discounters like Wal-Mart and BJ's Wholesale Club reported gains. 
 Consumer spending represents two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, and analysts said the striking sales declines at retailers almost certainly portended an extended, severe recession. The reports highlighted once again the depth of the economic problems confronting President-elect Barack Obama.
 Consumers are cutting their spending for many reasons, but high on the list is the weakening employment picture. Even people who still have jobs are pinching pennies as they hear of layoffs among friends and family. Unemployment has hit 6.1 percent, and a new jobs report due Friday is expected to show further deterioration.
 ''October was every bit as bad we feared,'' said John D. Morris, a retailing analyst with Wachovia. ''Maybe worse. October's numbers were so disappointing, particularly in the final week, which had to leave retailers in a state of high anxiety going into the holiday season.'' 
 Indeed, the situation for retailers is so dire that it is creating opportunity for any consumers in a mood to spend money. Seven weeks before Christmas, stores are offering eye-catching bargains as they struggle to move merchandise.
 ''This is the year the consumer has been given a holiday gift beyond belief,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for NPD Group. ''You can get anything, anywhere, at any price.'' 
 Malls are papered with sale signs, some seven feet tall and obscuring storefronts. New merchandise is being marked down before it even hits the sales floor. Stores are extending their hours and offering the kinds of deals -- ''doorbusters'' -- that are usually reserved for the day after Thanksgiving, known as Black Friday.
 Kohl's will stay open until midnight this Friday and offer an array of doorbusters, such as $250 diamond earrings for $77.99. Kmart is offering ''early Black Friday'' deals on Sundays, such as a Sylvania 32-inch LCD television for $439.99, instead of the usual $549.99.
 Even Wal-Mart, whose sales at stores open at least a year were up 2.4 percent in October, began a big discount program on Thursday, lowering prices on thousands of food and gift items. It is cutting the price of a Magnavox Blu-ray player to $198 from $229, and of the Battleship board game to $10 from $14.38.
 ''Wal-Mart's beating the promotional drum as loud as ever and as early as ever in advance of Christmas,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst with Deutsche Bank. 
 Only a few months ago, retailers thought they were prepared for the economic slowdown. They cut inventories in anticipation of weak back-to-school sales. But to their shock, sales declines reached double-digits in September, only to get worse in October.
 The result? Retailers have too much fall merchandise still on their shelves, even as Christmas merchandise is starting to arrive.
 ''I've never seen as many 'percent off the entire store' promotions as we're seeing right now,'' said Kimberly Greenberger, a retail analyst at Citigroup who has been studying apparel sales and promotions for a decade. 
 Retailers that include American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Chico's, Soma, Gap, Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works, Talbots and J. Jill have offered discounts on their entire merchandise lines or are letting shoppers buy one item and take 50 percent off a second, she said. 
 ''What we're hearing anecdotally from different retailers is that when they're putting something on sale at 30 or 40 percent discount it is no longer having an effect on consumers,'' Ms. Greenberger said. ''They're having to cut prices 50 to 60 percent to get consumers interested.''
 Two stylishly dressed friends spending time in Midtown Manhattan on Thursday said they used to enjoy shopping. ''I want to impulse-buy again,'' said a wistful Louise Van Veenendaal, an actress. But these days, economic anxiety is prompting the women to steer clear of stores. They refuse even to look at sales circulars.
 ''I'm much poorer than I've ever been,'' said her friend, Kate Pistone, also an actress, who makes ends meet by working at a restaurant. Sales there have been declining. ''I made $5 last night,'' she said. 
 Analysts who spend time prowling the nation's stores to track trends say that consumers are simply shell-shocked by all the grim financial news.
 ''You walk the mall and consumers look like zombies,'' said Mr. Morris of Wachovia, after visiting a mall last week. ''They're there in person, but not in spirit.'' 
 While the stores' price cuts are good news for consumers, they are a dangerous tactic for retailers.
 Retailers usually make most of their profit during the Christmas shopping season. And while they always offer impressive sales, they plan to discount only about 25 percent of their merchandise, not half of it, Mr. Cohen said. Too much discounting erodes profits. And by cutting prices so early, retailers risk running out of stock, or color and size options, before the season's home stretch.
 A few retailers have strong balance sheets, but many do not, and with credit hard to find they can ill afford a disastrous Christmas season. Analysts said they expected a new wave of bankruptcies after the first of the year.
 Bankrupt and ailing retailers are undercutting some of their healthy peers. Last week, for instance, Mervyn's announced a 149-store liquidation sale just in time for the holidays. Other such sales are already under way at Steve & Barry's and Linens 'n Things. Circuit City, the struggling electronics chain, began liquidation sales this week at 155 stores it is closing. 
 Mr. Cohen of NPD Group said wise retailers would not sacrifice profits just to shove goods out the door. But he acknowledged that in such a panicky climate, the race to discount merchandise had become nearly unstoppable.
 ''What's happening is the retailer is almost saying, 'Please just come in,' '' he said. '' 'We'll pay you to shop.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many retail chains, like this Chico's store in Boulder, Colo., have started offering deep discounts to draw more shoppers in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A27) CHART: Retail Sales in October: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Nov. 1, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) Chart details bar graphs (pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (79%); SAME STORE SALES (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); LAYOFFS (71%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (58%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



290 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Report A Sales Collapse

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Sales at the nation's largest retailers fell off a cliff in October, casting fresh doubt on the survival of some chains and signaling that this will probably be the weakest Christmas shopping season in decades.
 The remarkable slowdown hit luxury chains that sell $5,000 designer dresses as badly as stores that offer $18 packs of underwear, suggesting that consumers at all income levels are snapping their wallets shut.
 Sales at Neiman Marcus, the luxury department store, dropped nearly 28 percent in October compared with the same month last year. Sales fell 20 percent at Abercrombie & Fitch, nearly 17 percent at Saks, 16 percent at Gap and nearly that much at Nordstrom.
 Of the more than two dozen major retailers that reported on Thursday, most had sales declines at stores open at least a year, the majority of the decreases in double digits. Deep discounters like Wal-Mart and BJ's Wholesale Club reported gains. 
 Consumer spending represents two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, and analysts said the striking sales declines at retailers almost certainly portended an extended, severe recession. The reports highlighted once again the depth of the economic problems confronting President-elect Barack Obama.
 Consumers are cutting their spending for many reasons, but high on the list is the weakening employment picture. Even people who still have jobs are pinching pennies as they hear of layoffs among friends and family. Unemployment has hit 6.1 percent, and a new jobs report due Friday is expected to show further deterioration.
 ''October was every bit as bad we feared,'' said John D. Morris, a retailing analyst with Wachovia. ''Maybe worse. October's numbers were so disappointing, particularly in the final week, which had to leave retailers in a state of high anxiety going into the holiday season.'' 
 Indeed, the situation for retailers is so dire that it is creating opportunity for any consumers in a mood to spend money. Seven weeks before Christmas, stores are offering eye-catching bargains as they struggle to move merchandise.
 ''This is the year the consumer has been given a holiday gift beyond belief,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for NPD Group. ''You can get anything, anywhere, at any price.'' 
 Malls are papered with sale signs, some seven feet tall and obscuring storefronts. New merchandise is being marked down before it even hits the sales floor. Stores are extending their hours and offering the kinds of deals -- ''doorbusters'' -- that are usually reserved for the day after Thanksgiving, known as Black Friday.
 Kohl's will stay open until midnight this Friday and offer an array of doorbusters, such as $250 diamond earrings for $77.99. Kmart is offering ''early Black Friday'' deals on Sundays, such as a Sylvania 32-inch LCD television for $439.99, instead of the usual $549.99.
 Even Wal-Mart, whose sales at stores open at least a year were up 2.4 percent in October, began a big discount program on Thursday, lowering prices on thousands of food and gift items. It is cutting the price of a Magnavox Blu-ray player to $198 from $229, and of the Battleship board game to $10 from $14.38.
 ''Wal-Mart's beating the promotional drum as loud as ever and as early as ever in advance of Christmas,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst with Deutsche Bank. 
 Only a few months ago, retailers thought they were prepared for the economic slowdown. They cut inventories in anticipation of weak back-to-school sales. But to their shock, sales declines reached double-digits in September, only to get worse in October.
 The result? Retailers have too much fall merchandise still on their shelves, even as Christmas merchandise is starting to arrive.
 ''I've never seen as many 'percent off the entire store' promotions as we're seeing right now,'' said Kimberly Greenberger, a retail analyst at Citigroup who has been studying apparel sales and promotions for a decade. 
 Retailers that include American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Chico's, Soma, Gap, Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works, Talbots and J. Jill have offered discounts on their entire merchandise lines or are letting shoppers buy one item and take 50 percent off a second, she said. 
 ''What we're hearing anecdotally from different retailers is that when they're putting something on sale at 30 or 40 percent discount it is no longer having an effect on consumers,'' Ms. Greenberger said. ''They're having to cut prices 50 to 60 percent to get consumers interested.''
 Two stylishly dressed friends spending time in Midtown Manhattan on Thursday said they used to enjoy shopping. ''I want to impulse-buy again,'' said a wistful Louise Van Veenendaal, an actress. But these days, economic anxiety is prompting the women to steer clear of stores. They refuse even to look at sales circulars.
 ''I'm much poorer than I've ever been,'' said her friend, Kate Pistone, also an actress, who makes ends meet by working at a restaurant. Sales there have been declining. ''I made $5 last night,'' she said. 
 Analysts who spend time prowling the nation's stores to track trends say that consumers are simply shell-shocked by all the grim financial news.
 ''You walk the mall and consumers look like zombies,'' said Mr. Morris of Wachovia, after visiting a mall last week. ''They're there in person, but not in spirit.'' 
 While the stores' price cuts are good news for consumers, they are a dangerous tactic for retailers.
 Retailers usually make most of their profit during the Christmas shopping season. And while they always offer impressive sales, they plan to discount only about 25 percent of their merchandise, not half of it, Mr. Cohen said. Too much discounting erodes profits. And by cutting prices so early, retailers risk running out of stock, or color and size options, before the season's home stretch.
 A few retailers have strong balance sheets, but many do not, and with credit hard to find they can ill afford a disastrous Christmas season. Analysts said they expected a new wave of bankruptcies after the first of the year.
 Bankrupt and ailing retailers are undercutting some of their healthy peers. Last week, for instance, Mervyn's announced a 149-store liquidation sale just in time for the holidays. Other such sales are already under way at Steve & Barry's and Linens 'n Things. Circuit City, the struggling electronics chain, began liquidation sales this week at 155 stores it is closing. 
 Mr. Cohen of NPD Group said wise retailers would not sacrifice profits just to shove goods out the door. But he acknowledged that in such a panicky climate, the race to discount merchandise had become nearly unstoppable.
 ''What's happening is the retailer is almost saying, 'Please just come in,' '' he said. '' 'We'll pay you to shop.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many retail chains, like this Chico's store in Boulder, Colo., have started offering deep discounts to draw more shoppers in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A27) CHART: Retail Sales in October: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Nov. 1, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) Chart details bar graphs (pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (79%); SAME STORE SALES (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); LAYOFFS (71%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (58%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



291 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plans More Cuts as It Posts a Loss

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company, battered by the weak economy and a shift in consumer preferences, announced more cost cuts on Friday and reported a third-quarter loss.
 Ford said it lost $129 million, or 6 cents a share, less than the $380 million, or 19 cents a share, in the third quarter a year ago. 
 In its statement, Ford said it would cut another 10 percent of its salaried work force in North America. The company also said that it had used up $7.7 billion in cash. 
 Third-quarter sales were $32.1 billion, down from $41.1 billion a year ago. Ford said the decline reflected lower sales volume, the sale of Jaguar and Land Rover units, changing product mix and lower net pricing. 
 Excluding special items, Ford lost was about $3 billion, or $1.31 a share, compared with a loss of $24 million, or a penny a share, a year ago. On that basis, analyst surveyed by ThomsonReuters expected a loss of 94 cents a share.
 Rival General Motors will report results later Friday.
 Underscoring the dire circumstances facing the industry, the chief executives of G.M., Ford and Chrysler met with Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, on Thursday about an emergency loan package. The meeting focused on a request by automakers for up to $25 billion in loans to help the companies get through the worst vehicle market in 15 years and avoid bankruptcy protection.
 The loan request is in addition to $25 billion in low-interest loans administered by the Department of Energy to assist automakers in developing more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Automakers have been battered by a weak economy, rising gas prices, a sharp shift away from their most profitable products and a credit crisis that has emptied dealer showrooms. The stunning falloff has affected all automakers, as shaky consumer confidence and the inability of many eager shoppers to get loans because of tight credit drove sales down 31.9 percent in October compared with the period a year ago.
 Ford lost $8.6 billion in the first half of 2008. Its sales in the United States are down 18.6 percent this year through October.
 Not long ago, it was viewed as being in the worst shape of the three Detroit automakers, but now, as its two crosstown rivals -- G.M. and Chrysler -- explore a merger to avoid running out of cash, Ford has become the most stable. It still has a large cash cushion -- $26.6 billion as of June -- from mortgaging most of its North American assets in 2006, before the credit markets tightened.
 ''Despite meaningful production declines forecasted for the coming quarters, we estimate that Ford has enough cash through 2009,'' Brian A. Johnson, an analyst with Barclays Capital, wrote in a report this week.
 After losing $18.8 billion in the first six months of the year, G.M., suffered an even further decline in fortunes in the third quarter.
 The company's global sales fell 11.4 percent in the quarter, with most of the damage done in the slumping vehicle markets of North America and Europe.
 A lack of available credit for consumers has hurt all automakers this fall, but G.M. has been particularly hard hit by the problems of the finance unit GMAC Financial Services.
 GMAC is controlled by Cerberus Capital Management, which has a 51 percent ownership stake. G.M. owns the remaining 49 percent. GMAC reported a $2.52 billion loss in the third quarter, mostly because its lack of access to available capital choked off the flow of auto loans to G.M. customers.
 As a result, G.M.'s dealers have been increasingly unable to finance sales to even creditworthy customers. In October, G.M.'s United States sales plunged 45.1 percent, compared with a 31.9 percent drop for the overall industry.
 Those declining sales have cut sharply into G.M.'s revenues and crippled its previously announced turnaround plans.
 With the company burning through cash, G.M. said in July that it would increase its liquidity by cutting costs by $10 billion, and by raising $5 billion through new borrowing and asset sales.
 But the company has been unable to take on new debt, and has been unable to sell any major assets like its Hummer brand.
 With revenues declining and its cash reserves rapidly diminishing, G.M. began looking for a merger partner this summer, according to people with knowledge of the company's actions.
 G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, first approached Ford, but its leadership rejected the overtures. In September, G.M. began talks with Chrysler, which is also controlled by Cerberus.
 While both sides are committed to merging the two automakers, the deal has stalled because prospective lenders have been hesitant to support it without assurances of government assistance to Detroit.
 Mr. Wagoner and other G.M. executives have repeatedly vowed that the automaker will not seek bankruptcy protection.
 Analysts, however, believe that without an infusion of capital from the government, G.M. will exhaust its cash reserves by sometime next year.
 For its part, Ford has reacted aggressively in recent months to the downturn, announcing a plan to convert three truck plants so they can build small cars instead and to bring six fuel-efficient vehicles to the United States from Europe in the next few years.
 It is beginning a major new-product blitz, introducing a redesigned version of its stalwart F-series pickup this fall and more revamped models, including new versions of the Taurus and Mustang, next year. It is counting on strong sales of the F-series, despite lessened demand for trucks, to lift its short-term fortunes.
 Any momentum that Ford has been building, though, took a big hit last month when its largest shareholder, the casino mogul Kirk Kerkorian, began selling off his stake. Mr. Kerkorian had previously expressed confidence in the company and in the leadership of the chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, and that support pushed shares of the company to more than $8 in May. But the company's stock hit a 26-year low of $1.88 last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RETAIL SALES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (65%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (50%); HARRY REID (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008



292 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: In Big Shift, Latino Vote Was Heavily For Obama

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Megan Thee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Latino voters shifted in huge numbers away from the Republicans to vote for Senator Barack Obama in the presidential election, exit polls show, providing the votes that gave him unexpectedly large margins of victory in three battleground states: Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada.
 Mr. Obama's pull on Latino voters also extended to Florida, where a majority of them voted for a Democratic presidential nominee for the first time since at least 1988, when exit polls were first conducted in the state. 
 In a year when turnout among many groups surged nationwide, the number of Latinos who went to the polls increased by nearly 25 percent over 2004, with sharp rises among naturalized immigrants and young, first-time voters, according to a study by the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. Hispanic support for the Democratic nominee increased by 14 points over all compared with 2004, the biggest shift toward the Democrats by any voter group. 
 For the first time, Latino voters emerged as a mobilized Democratic voting bloc in states across the country, Latino officials said. 
 ''They really delivered,'' said Efrain Escobedo, director of civic engagement at the Latino officials' association, a bipartisan group that ran voter registration drives across the country. ''This is an electorate that now understands the importance of voting, and they made a significant shift in the political landscape.''
 Nationwide, Hispanics voted 67 percent for Mr. Obama and 31 percent for Senator John McCain, according to Edison/Mitofsky exit polls. In 2004, Senator John Kerry won 53 percent, while 44 percent of Hispanics voted for President Bush, a record for Latino support for a Republican presidential nominee.
 The approximately 10 million Latinos who went to the polls this year were 9 percent of the total of voters, up one percentage point from 2004. Their share of the electorate did not increase more substantially because turnout was high across most voting groups.
 A striking increase was in Colorado, where Hispanics went from 8 percent of those who voted in 2004 to 13 percent this year, according to Edison/Mitofsky. Mr. Obama carried the Latino vote in Colorado by 61 percent to 38 percent, Edison/Mitofsky found.
 While Mr. McCain campaigned hard in Colorado and polls showed a tight race there, in the end Mr. Obama won the state by 7.7 percentage points. 
 Latinos were also crucial to Mr. Obama's landslide in New Mexico, which, like Colorado, went for President Bush in 2004. Hispanics increased their share of New Mexico's voters to 41 percent, from 32 percent in 2004, and 69 percent of them voted for Mr. Obama, who carried the state by more than 14 points.
 ''The Latino vote came back to the Democratic Party after a brief flirtation with the Republicans,'' said New Mexico's Democratic governor, Bill Richardson, who is Hispanic. ''They turned out, erasing the fame of Latino voters as a sleeping giant and making them an actual giant.'' 
 Mr. Richardson said Latinos had been attracted to the Democratic nominee because he ''spoke to them not as an ethnic group but as American voters pursuing the American dream, focusing on mainstream issues like the economy and the war in Iraq.'' 
 In Nevada, where Hispanics were 15 percent of voters, 76 percent of them backed Mr. Obama. He carried the state by more than 12 points. 
 In Florida, Hispanics joined many other groups in shifting away from the Republicans toward Mr. Obama, contributing to his 2.4-point victory there. One factor was a growing group of Puerto Rican voters in Central Florida, who tended to vote Democratic while South Florida's large Cuban-American population remained dependably Republican, said Mark Hugo Lopez, a researcher for the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (95%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF LATINO ELECTED & APPOINTED OFFICIALS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BILL RICHARDSON (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



293 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: In Rare Turn, Iran's Leader Sends Letter To Obama

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI; Ethan Bronner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran sent an unusual letter congratulating President-elect Barack Obama on Thursday for his victory in the American presidential race, even though the two nations have had no diplomatic ties for nearly 30 years.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has written letters to world leaders in the past, including one to President Bush. But this is the first time an Iranian leader has congratulated the winner of an American election, at least since the Iranian revolution. 
 Diplomatic ties between Iran and the United States were severed in 1979, when radical students attacked the United States Embassy in Tehran and took American diplomats hostage. 
 Iranian leaders continue to use hostile language toward the United States, and Mr. Ahmadinejad had said that he did not think a black candidate could be elected because of racial discrimination.
 ''I congratulate you for attracting the majority of votes in the election,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad wrote in his message, an Iranian news agency, ISNA, reported. ''As you know, opportunities that are bestowed upon humans are short lived,'' he wrote, adding that he hoped Mr. Obama would make the most of the opportunity.
 The delivery of the letter coincided with a move by the Bush administration to put more pressure on Iran by adding measures that prohibit financial institutions from helping Iranian banks, the government or others in the country, the Treasury Department said Thursday.
 Previously, American financial institutions were allowed to handle certain money transfers that might have directly or indirectly helped Iranian interests. But the action announced Thursday ended what the Treasury Department called ''the last general entry point for Iranian banks.'' Still, exceptions will be granted in certain cases, like individual remittances and humanitarian aid.
 In his letter, Mr. Ahmadinejad said that people in America and around the world expected Mr. Obama to make major changes in domestic and foreign policy, and to limit American interference in other parts of the world. 
 ''People in the world expect war-oriented policies, occupation, bullying, deception and intimidation of nations and imposing discriminatory policies on them and international affairs, which have evoked hatred toward American leaders, to be replaced by ones advocating justice, respect for human rights, friendship and noninterference in other countries' affairs,'' the letter said, according to ISNA. 
 ''They also want the U.S. intervention to be limited to its borders, especially in the sensitive region of the Middle East,'' it said. ''It is expected to reverse the unfair attitude of the past 60 years to restore the rights of people in Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan.'' 
 Mr. Obama has said that he would engage in aggressive diplomacy with Iran, and that he might offer economic incentives if Iran were more cooperative on issues like terrorism and nuclear development.
 His position has stirred concerns among some world leaders. The Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, expressed her concerns on Thursday after Mr. Obama's victory became clear, saying that he should not talk to Iran because it might send the wrong signal. 
 ''We live in a neighborhood in which sometimes dialogue -- in a situation where you have brought sanctions and then switch to dialogue -- is liable to be interpreted as weakness,'' Ms. Livni said in an interview on Israel Radio.
 Iran's foreign policy is decided by the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
 It was not clear whether Mr. Ahmadinejad had the ayatollah's approval to send a message to Mr. Obama, but his letter to Mr. Bush raised speculation that Iran was trying to open a dialogue with the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); TZIPORA LIVNI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



294 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: How to Move the Middle

BYLINE: By RAMESH PONNURU. 
Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor at National Review.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 SENATOR JIM DeMINT, a Republican from South Carolina, spoke for many conservatives on Tuesday in saying that Republicans had lost by straying from conservative principles: ''Americans have again rejected the Democrat-lite strategy of higher spending and bigger government, and it's time for Republicans to chart a new, more principled course.'' 
 Republicans have a history of moving right after defeats, embracing Ronald Reagan after Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford had failed, and Newt Gingrich after George H. W. Bush had. Each time the party thrived as conservative independents and Democrats joined it. Many conservatives think that the party will succeed again just as soon as it ditches the big-spending, soft-on-immigration George W. Bush. But Republicans succeeded on those previous occasions because they addressed the concerns of the day for the vast middle class; moving right alone was insufficient. 
 As it will be in today's very different political landscape. Based on the exit polls from 2004 and Tuesday, Republicans have lost more ground among self-described moderates than among conservatives. Even if Senator McCain had won the same percentage of conservatives that President Bush did in 2004, he would not have won. Moving right will work only if moderates are given a reason to move right too.
 The way to court these moderates is not to abandon social conservatism, which would alienate many of the voters Republicans still have. The party needs to ''move to the middle'' less than it needs to move to the middle class: to go back to representing the interests of voters in the middle of the income spectrum.
 John McCain and movement conservatives, so often at odds, have been complicit in neglecting these voters. He somehow believed that he could win a presidential election without a coherent middle-class economic agenda, and conservatives never thought to demand one from him. 
 Yes, Mr. McCain's plans would have cut taxes more than Mr. Obama's for a lot of middle-class families, but Republicans rarely bothered to point that out. Mr. McCain's campaign smartly promised to double the tax exemption for children, but the candidate seemed unfamiliar with the idea, repeatedly describing it incorrectly. Likewise, he had an innovative health care plan, but he rarely explained how it would help the average voter.
 For much of the year Senator McCain's central economic message was that he would restrain federal spending, especially earmarks. At no point did Republicans suggest how these policies would lead to any tangible improvements for average Americans. He also promised to cut corporate tax rates. He had a strong case: We have higher rates than most countries yet raise less revenue. But good economic policies cannot prevail until a political majority for them is rebuilt -- and that requires persuading average voters that markets can be made to work for them.
 Most conservatives were preoccupied in this campaign with cultural issues: flag pins, 1960s radicals and the like. These issues are legitimate, and certainly easier to understand than the details of health policy. But they have never been enough to win over most voters. Barack Obama offered a better life to most voters. Without challenging that claim, Republicans were never going to be able to portray him as out of the mainstream.
 Republicans, as the party in the White House for the last eight years, were bound to take most of the blame for the financial crisis. But Mr. McCain would have been better prepared for it if middle-class voters already trusted him to look out for them. By the end of the campaign, 60 percent of voters did not think that he was ''in touch with people like them'' -- and 79 percent of them voted against him. They thought other Republicans were out of touch, too. To recover, the party will have to prove them wrong, not just return to the conservative program of yesteryear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); TAX LAW (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FAMILY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); TAX RELIEF (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (61%); IMMIGRATION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIM DEMINT (74%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



295 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Among Young Muslims, Mixed Emotions on Obama

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
It was easy for them to love the candidate. With the same passion, and for the same reasons that millions of other young people did, they loved Barack Obama's call to activism, the promise of change, the sheer newness of the guy.
 What was hard was feeling they could not show it because they were Muslims.
 ''I pretty much kept away, because I didn't want to appear with an Obama button and have people look at me and say: 'Oh, a Muslim girl supports him. Aha,' '' said Sule Akoglu, a 17-year-old New York University freshman, who wears a head scarf.
 Like just about all the Muslim students who gathered Wednesday night at the university's Islamic Center on the day after the election, Miss Akoglu described a mixture of delight and frustration at the successful campaign of the nation's first black president-elect. 
 He had run a great race, broken so many barriers, done so much right. Yet the persistent rumor that Mr. Obama was a Muslim had led his campaign to do things that the students found hurtful, they said. The campaign had dismissed a Muslim staff member for seemingly flimsy reasons. A campaign worker had shuttled two young Muslim women wearing head scarves out of the line of sight of TV cameras at a rally.
 And the candidate known for his way with words had never said the words they waited for.
 ''In my community, people were saying to me, 'Who do we support?' '' said Meherunnisa Jobaida, a journalism student from Queens. ''The person who is making the stereotype? Or the person who is not defending us?'' 
 The words defending them were finally spoken instead by former Secretary of State Colin Powell, when he announced his support for Mr. Obama on Oct. 19. Answering a question about the candidate's faith, Mr. Powell said: ''Well, the correct answer is he is not a Muslim, he's a Christian. He's always been a Christian. But the really right answer is, what if he is? Is there something wrong with being a Muslim in this country?''
 The remark struck so profoundly, said the young Muslims at the meeting, that Mr. Obama's election -- in which they thoroughly rejoiced -- was like the icing on Mr. Powell's cake.
 Lina Sayed, a Queens native and a recent N.Y.U. graduate now working in finance, said Mr. Powell's matter-of-fact articulation of an essential American principle lifted a sense of alienation that she had come to accept, and was almost unaware of.
 ''I forgot about the American dream,'' she said. ''I forgot that something like this was possible.''
 The Islamic Center at N.Y.U. serves about 2,000 students who identify themselves as Muslim, offering activities like skating and bowling, as well as a place for religious instruction, daily prayers and regular meetings like the one on Wednesday night, where students are invited to come and talk.
 Though a small sample, the views of the dozen students that night -- most of them the American-born children of immigrants from South Asia and the Middle East -- generally reflected the results of surveys and recent scholarship. 
 The Gallup Center for Muslim Studies, for example, recently found overwhelming support for Mr. Obama among the country's estimated 2 million Muslim voters; and scholars like Jen'nan Ghazal Read, a Duke University sociology professor who studies assimilation patterns among Muslims in the United States, has described the sense of resignation many Muslims felt at how the pejorative use of the word ''Muslim'' went unchallenged during most of the campaign.
 ''This is a very sober, mature voting population,'' Professor Read said in a telephone conference call with reporters yesterday. ''They understand the realities.'' 
 Sufia Ashraf, a freshman pre-med student, voiced that sobriety: While disappointed by Mr. Obama's failure to speak up for Muslims, she was willing to let it go. ''I would rather Barack Obama win,'' she said. ''If he had said something like what Colin Powell said, he might have lost.''
 Imam Khalid Latif, the Muslim chaplain who runs the N.Y.U. center, said that throughout the campaign students were ''figuring out what it means to be a Muslim in America,'' and that seven years after 9/11, young Muslims are still facing tricky questions in their everyday lives. To wear a full beard, or trim it? Skull cap or baseball cap?
 Ms. Sayed, the recent graduate, said two of her brothers who worked in the Obama campaign in Pennsylvania, both of them with ''very Muslim names,'' decided to do their door-to-door canvassing as ''Alex'' and ''John.''
 Among the students, many are children of small-business owners who supported Senator John McCain. Many were schoolchildren on 9/11, taken by surprise by the taunting of their classmates, and even more surprised by the police security that became part of their daily school life for a while.
 Miss Akoglu, the young woman who did not want to hurt Mr. Obama's chances by campaigning for him wearing a head scarf, had made the religious commitment to wear a scarf, in fact, just the week before 9/11, when she was in the sixth grade. Though she received more attention by wearing it, and more grief, she has worn it ever since. (After Mr. Powell's public remark, Miss Akoglu began wearing her Obama pin just to the side of the scarf. ''That's when I put it on,'' she said.)
 For all the apparent conditions placed on full participation in the political process, the students said, they were more optimistic about the future the day after the election than the day before.
 The election proved that the promise of America is real, that the only barrier to participation is one's own inertia and that ''now is the time for us to step up,'' said Haseeb Chowdhry, a senior at the university's Stern School of Business.
 ''We love this country. This country has an ability to change -- that is its strength,'' he said.
 The consensus among them about Mr. Obama (only one of those present had supported Mr. McCain) was partly generational, partly an identification with anyone saddled with a name like Barack Hussein Obama, and partly a sense of common ground with another child of the world.
 ''He's grown up in Indonesia, in Hawaii, in the Midwest,'' said Mr. Chowdhry, whose family roots in Pakistan allowed him to grow up in two cultures. ''The guy is a cosmopolitan. That's important for the future. To be able to understand that we are part of the larger world.''
 Mr. McCain's only supporter in the room, Jameel Merali, a junior studying hospitality management, said Mr. Obama's victory was a wonderful thing, though he still had reservations about his view of economics. 
 After explaining his understanding of Mr. Obama's view, and contrasting it with his own -- using terms that college students taking economics courses might follow -- Mr. Merali concluded that all in all the system of checks and balances would protect the nation against any intemperate economic decisions the next president might consider.
 ''That's the beauty of it,'' said Mr. Merali, who was born in Tanzania. ''The way it was all set up by our founding fathers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Muslim students at New York University gathered on Wednesday to discuss the presidential election, among them Momtaz Yaqubie, Meherunnisa Jobaida, Sule Akoglu and Wamiq Chowdhury. For many, attraction to Barack Obama was muted by a sense of being marginalized politically.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Khalid Latif, of the N.Y.U. Islamic Center, said that students were ''figuring out what it means to be a Muslim in America.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



296 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Change I Can Believe In

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I have dreams. I may seem like a boring pundit whose most exotic fantasies involve G.A.O. reports, but deep down, I have dreams. And right now I'm dreaming of the successful presidency this country needs. I'm dreaming of an administration led by Barack Obama, but which stretches beyond the normal Democratic base. It makes time for moderate voters, suburban voters, rural voters and even people who voted for the other guy. 
 The administration of my dreams understands where the country is today. Its members know that, as Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center put it on ''The NewsHour,'' ''This was an election where the middle asserted itself.'' There was ''no sign'' of a ''movement to the left.'' 
 Only 17 percent of Americans trust the government to do the right thing most or all of the time, according to an October New York Times/CBS News poll. So the members of my dream Obama administration understand that they cannot impose an ideological program the country does not accept. New presidents in 1932 and 1964 could presuppose a basic level of trust in government. But today, as Bill Galston of the Brookings Institution observes, the new president is going to have to build that trust deliberately and step by step. 
 Walking into the Obama White House of my dreams will be like walking into the Gates Foundation. The people there will be ostentatiously pragmatic and data-driven. They'll hunt good ideas like venture capitalists. They'll have no faith in all-powerful bureaucrats issuing edicts from the center. Instead, they'll use that language of decentralized networks, bottom-up reform and scalable innovation.
 They will actually believe in that stuff Obama says about postpartisan politics. That means there won't just be a few token liberal Republicans in marginal jobs. There will be people like Robert Gates at Defense and Ray LaHood, Stuart Butler, Diane Ravitch, Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Jim Talent at other important jobs. 
 The Obama administration of my dreams will insist that Congressional Democrats reinstate bipartisan conference committees. They'll invite G.O.P. leaders to the White House for real meetings and then re-invite them, even if they give hostile press conferences on the White House driveway.
 They'll do things conservatives disagree with, but they'll also show that they're not toadies of the liberal interest groups. They'll insist on merit pay and preserving No Child Left Behind's accountability standards, no matter what the teachers' unions say. They'll postpone contentious fights on things like card check legislation.
 Most of all, they'll take significant action on the problems facing the country without causing a mass freak-out among voters to the right of Nancy Pelosi. 
 They'll do this by explaining to the American people that there are two stages to their domestic policy thinking, the short-term and the long-term. 
 The short-term strategy will have two goals: to mitigate the pain of the recession and the change the culture of Washington. The first step will be to complete the round of stimulus packages that are sure to come.
 Then they'll take up two ideas that already have bipartisan support: middle-class tax relief and an energy package. The current economic and energy crisis is an opportunity to do what was not done in similar circumstances in 1974 -- transform this country's energy supply. A comprehensive bill -- encompassing everything from off-shore drilling to green technologies -- would stimulate the economy and nurture new political coalitions. 
 When the recession shows signs of bottoming out, then my dream administration would begin phase two. The long-term strategy would be about restoring fiscal balances and reforming fundamental institutions.
 By this time, the budget deficit could be zooming past $1.5 trillion a year. The U.S. will be borrowing oceans of money from abroad. My dream administration will show that it understands that the remedy for a culture of debt is not more long-term debt. It will side with those who worry that long-term deficits could lead to ruinous interest-rate hikes.
 My dream administration will announce a Budget Rebalancing Initiative. Somebody like Representative Jim Cooper would go through the budget and take out the programs and tax expenditures that don't work. ''If we have no spending cuts, then we're saying government is perfect. Nobody believes that,'' Cooper says. 
 Having built bipartisan relationships, having shown some fiscal toughness, having seen the economy through the tough times, my dream administration will then be in a position to take up health care reform, tax reform, education reform and a long-range infrastructure initiative. These reforms may have to start slow and on the cheap. But real reform would be imaginable since politics as we know it would be transformed.
 Is it all just a dream? I hope not. In any case, please be quiet and let me have my moment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (62%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); MERIT PAY (60%); SUBURBS (56%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAY LAHOOD (57%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



297 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Automakers Plead for Aid

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MATTHEW L. WALD; Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit and Matthew L. Wald from Washington.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Executives of Detroit's Big Three automakers traveled to Washington on Thursday to press their case for more financial aid from the federal government because of the bleak prospects for their industry.
 And those prospects are likely to dim further on Friday, when General Motors and Ford are expected to report deeper job and production cuts, along with huge third-quarter losses. Analysts expect each to report losses of more than $2 billion, excluding special charges or write-downs. 
 The meeting in Washington, with Capitol Hill's top Democrats -- the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid -- centered on a request by G.M., the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler for up to $25 billion in loans to help the companies as they burn through their cash cushions during the worst sales market in 15 years. 
 The loan request is in addition to $25 billion in low-interest loans to be available from the Energy Department to assist automakers in developing more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 The meeting, which lasted an hour and a half, was attended by G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner; Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally; Chrysler's chairman, Robert L. Nardelli; and the president of the United Automobile Workers, Ron Gettelfinger.
 After the meeting, Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, called the discussions ''extremely productive'' but offered no details on when, or if, an aid package might be forthcoming.
 Ms. Pelosi issued a statement saying the group discussed ''how to protect hundreds of thousands of workers and retirees, safeguard the interests of American taxpayers, and use cutting-edge technology to transform blue-collar jobs to green-collar jobs for generations to come.''
 When a spokesman for Ms. Pelosi, Nadeam Elshami, was asked if Congress would take up a proposal when it returns to Washington on Nov. 17, he said, ''I wouldn't go that far.'' 
 Mr. Reid was also not specific about what aid Congress might provide. The Detroit executives slipped out of meetings with Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Reid, avoiding reporters in both places.
 A spokesman for G.M., Greg Martin, said the executives had a ''frank and constructive discussion'' about Detroit's ''deteriorating liquidity situation.''
 ''We are committed to working closely with Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid to ensure immediate and necessary funding to keep the auto industry viable and its transformation on track during this critical time,'' Mr. Martin said.
 The expected third-quarter losses from G.M. and Ford, the two largest American automakers, will come on top of dismal financial results for the first six months of the year, during which G.M. lost $18.8 billion and Ford lost $8.6 billion. The companies will also reveal how quickly they are burning through their available cash.
 ''I have never seen anything like this,'' said David Healy, who recently retired after 40 years as an auto analyst, most recently with Burnham Securities. ''But if they can get the federal money, I think there's a decent chance they can survive.''
 Both G.M. and Ford are expected to announce measures on Friday to conserve their rapidly dwindling cash reserves.
 G.M. is likely to announce another round of cuts for white-collar jobs, as well as temporary layoffs at factories, early holiday shutdown of facilities and delays in developing new vehicles. 
 Ford is expected to take some plants offline to reduce production of slow-selling models, and possibly seek more buyouts from employees.
 Both companies, along with Chrysler, have been furiously downsizing to compensate for a steady erosion of their combined United States market share. Together, Detroit's Big Three have cut more than 100,000 jobs and closed dozens of factories since 2006.
 But the cost cuts and turnaround plans have not been enough to keep pace with the drastic downturn in sales of new cars and trucks this year.
 United States vehicle sales have fallen by 14.6 percent this year through October and are expected to remain slow well into next year.
 The downturn began in spring with rising gas prices but has become progressively worse because of a weak economy, the tightening of credit for prospective buyers and sinking consumer confidence.
 In October, industry sales dropped 31.9 percent from the period a year earlier. G.M. sales fell 45.1 percent in the month, while Ford dropped by 30.2 percent and Chrysler by 34.9 percent.
 Of the three Detroit companies, G.M. appears to be in the most perilous condition. G.M. had been burning through an estimated $1 billion a month this year, and analysts say that figure probably increased significantly in the third quarter.
 As a result, the company could run out of the necessary cash to pay its bills and finance operations by next year.
 In making his pleas for government aid, Mr. Wagoner of G.M. has outlined in detail how the failure of Detroit's auto companies would have a ripple effect on the economy that could cost hundreds of thousands, perhaps even millions, of jobs in the United States.
 ''The negative effects of such a corporate collapse on an already weakened economy could wreak additional havoc on individuals and businesses across the country,'' said Louis E. Lataif, a business professor at Boston University and a former Ford executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leaders of Detroit's Big Three, Alan Mulally, left, Rick Wagoner and Robert Nardelli, with Ron Gettelfinger of the U.A.W. At right are the Democrats Nancy Pelosi and Steny Hoyer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)
 Leaders of Detroit's Big Three and the head of the U.A.W. pushed for federal aid beyond a promised $25 billion in loans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (89%); HARRY REID (89%); RICK WAGONER (72%); ALAN MULALLY (71%); BOB NARDELLI (68%); STENY HOYER (54%); JOHN DINGELL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



298 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1339 words

PERSON: Abraham Lincoln 

HEADLINE: Call Him Eloquent Abe, The Writer in Chief

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
LINCOLN 
 The Biography of a Writer 
 By Fred Kaplan 
 406 pages. HarperCollins. $27.95. 
 A former Illinois state legislator, with a short stint in Congress under his belt, comes to national prominence with speeches that showcase his eloquence. He is, according to the author of this new book, something of a cool customer: calm and graceful under pressure, ''a difficult man to read, who loved jokes and stories'' but who was otherwise remarkably self-contained. 
 This former lawyer runs as ''a stoic moderate,'' embracing the virtues of ''balance, temperance and restraint''; as a campaigner he emphasizes a reasoned ''analysis of issues rather than personalities.'' His poetic gifts as a writer, shaped by a lifetime of avid reading, are matched by a lawyer's appreciation of precision; his writings project ''a persona of dignified but amiable authenticity,'' and do so with a ''concision of phrasing and logical tightness.'' In his run for office he is criticized for being too inexperienced to be president and for failing to support the troops, because he'd questioned an American invasion of a country he claimed was ''in no way molesting, or menacing the U.S.'' His vision of America is an optimistic one of reconciliation -- to ''help make strangers into neighbors,'' in the words of this biographer, ''to create sympathy between regions and nations, and, by inference, between the North and South.'' 
 The man in question -- and the subject of this fascinating new book -- is Abraham Lincoln, not Barack Obama, who self-consciously invoked memories of the Civil War president in 2007 by announcing his candidacy for the White House in Springfield, Ill., Lincoln's hometown for 17 years. Although Fred Kaplan, the author of ''Lincoln,'' never mentions Mr. Obama by name, it's hard to read this volume without thinking of the current president-elect -- who turns out to share a startling array of philosophical and literary qualities with his predecessor, as well as an equanimity of demeanor -- and this book's focus on the role that language and writing played in one president's life promises to shed light on the role they may play in another's. 
 Certainly Lincoln's writings and literary gifts have been examined in detail many times before, most famously by Jacques Barzun -- and Edmund Wilson, who argued that ''alone among American Presidents, it is possible to imagine Lincoln, grown up in a different milieu, becoming a distinguished writer of a not merely political kind.'' Garry Wills's seminal 1992 book, ''Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America,'' deconstructed that best known of Lincoln's speeches, while Ronald C. White Jr. tackled the second Inaugural Address in his 2002 book, ''Lincoln's Greatest Speech.'' More recently Douglas Wilson, in ''Lincoln's Sword: The Presidency and the Power of Words,'' probed Lincoln's often agonizing creative process, looking at the evolution of particular speeches and essays, and his capacity to grow as a writer and a leader over the years.
 This new biography remains heavily indebted to these earlier works, as well as to Douglas Wilson's 1998 book ''Honor's Voice: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln.'' But Mr. Kaplan does a persuasive, highly perceptive job of explicating the influences that various authors had on Lincoln's thinking, as well as the role that writing played in helping the young Illinois politician articulate an identity of his own. In fact, as Mr. Kaplan sees it, language ''was the tool by which'' Lincoln ''explored and defined himself,'' and as president he would try to find a language to ''harness and implement'' his political ideas ''in a country whose alternative narrative would lead, he believed, to betrayal and disaster.'' 
 Perhaps because so many previous scholars have focused on Lincoln's best known writings as president, Mr. Kaplan devotes most of his attention to his subject's earlier years, spending only one chapter on his time as commander in chief. Much of his attention is directed at the pivotal role that the Bible and Shakespeare's plays had in shaping Lincoln's poetic sense of language and his philosophical view of the world. He writes that Lincoln knew Shakespeare's body of work so well that quotations from the plays ''came as naturally to him as breathing,'' and that he came to see Shakespeare's tragedies as a sort of correlative to the tragedy America faced during the Civil War. 
 During Lincoln's presidency, Mr. Kaplan writes, ''Shakespeare's history plays now had special purchase, even more than they had always had, as exemplars of the drama of national destiny, great leaders contesting for dominance, the clashing of ambitions and wills, and the attempt to assert contradictory national visions. The second part of Shakespeare's Henry VI sequence, dramatizing the brutal war between the houses of York and Lancaster, provided a linguistic equivalent of his own torn soul, his civil war also increasingly spinning out of control, the military murders, including the legal butchery, amplified for both sides.''
 Shakespeare remained a primary touchstone throughout Lincoln's life, molding his almost existential view of mankind's plight in a random, unpredictable world, but a host of other writers would imprint his imagination as well. Aesop's fables, which Lincoln learned as a boy, Mr. Kaplan argues, would feed his love of fables and inform his own fondness for storytelling -- as a means of illustration and moral persuasion. Mr. Kaplan also tells us that the young Lincoln was riveted by ''Robinson Crusoe,'' drawing parallels between his own frontier world and ''the shipwrecked Crusoe's struggle against isolation and adversity'' and that he probably regarded John Bunyan's ''Pilgrim's Progress'' in secular terms as a parable about upward mobility that resonated with his own efforts ''to find a path out of the limitations of his father's world'' of manual labor. In addition, literary anthologies belonging to Lincoln's stepmother introduced him to writers like David Hume, Edward Gibbon and Samuel Johnson as well as a sort of Enlightenment rationalism that Lincoln found more congenial than the Protestant emotionalism of his father, with whom he maintained a distant, even chilly relationship. 
 By most accounts, Lincoln vacillated between two emotional poles -- between the melancholic and the irreverent, the stoic and the playful -- and his taste in reading reflected these two moods. The poetry of Byron appealed to Lincoln's pensive side, echoing his own familiarity with loss and grief (his mother died when he was a boy, and the untimely death of Ann Rutledge, believed by some scholars to have been his first love, reportedly left him emotionally devastated), while Robert Burns's gift for satire and colloquial language informed the future president's development of an economical voice pitched toward the common man. 
 Other presidents, like Ulysses S. Grant and Theodore Roosevelt, were talented writers, but only Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson so far stand out as what Mr. Kaplan calls ''canonical writers of American literature.'' Unlike many politicians, Mr. Kaplan observes, Lincoln struggled throughout his career to ''find effective, accurate language to express his ideas about a complicated reality that readily lent itself to evasion, self-deceit and linguistic trickery.'' By the time he was president, at the height of the Civil War, Lincoln had not only achieved a voice wholly his own, a distinctive, American voice accommodating both oratorical heights and plain-spoken directness, but he had also demonstrated that he was no ''mere stump orator,'' as one news account put it, but a leader who had put his superior language skills in the service of a vision of a new nation that might emerge from the war -- an America dedicated to completing the unfinished work of its founders, an America, in his indelible words, ''conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fred Kaplan (pg. C34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); LAWYERS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%)

BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



299 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: A Hint on Being Presidential: Don't Copy New York Politicians

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama hardly needs unsolicited advice from the bleachers. But as a onetime New Yorker -- he went to Columbia College and worked here in the early 1980s -- he may want to glance at the governing styles of recent chief executives in the state and the city. They offer lessons in how to behave and, even more so, how not to.
 Let's start with Jan. 20. For the Obama presidency, it will be Day 1. Here's a tip: Never, ever call it Day 1. The last guy who routinely used that phrase didn't make it past Day 442. That was New York's disgraced former governor, Eliot Spitzer, whose inaugural address is worth studying to learn exactly the wrong approach. 
 Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Spitzer cast himself as riding the winds of change. To hammer home the point, he used his first speech as governor to slap his predecessor around. Under Gov. George E. Pataki, he said, New York was like Rip Van Winkle. It ''slept through much of the past decade while the rest of the world has passed us by.''
 Mr. Spitzer delivered this harsh assessment with Mr. Pataki sitting only a few feet away. It was a singular act of gracelessness. It signaled -- to some of us, anyway -- that trouble might lie ahead with this self-righteous new leader.
 While Spitzerian bull in a china shop is not Mr. Obama's style, he may be tempted in his own inaugural address to say something to the effect that the light-emitting diode has been passed to a new generation of Americans. The exiting president, George W. Bush, will be sitting right there.
 Every indicator says that most Americans can't wait to see the last of Mr. Bush. But why rub it in? Mr. Obama would do well to be the un-Spitzer. He could simply note, for example, that on Mr. Bush's watch there has been no terrorist attack on American soil in more than seven years, and let it go at that.
 There is another lesson in the short-lived Spitzer administration: Don't assume that a strong Election Day victory translates into an unassailable mandate.
 Mr. Spitzer (who, by the way, escaped federal charges on Thursday in the prostitution scandal that had forced him to resign) came on like gangbusters after his vaunted Day 1. Within a month, he was slugging it out with the Legislature, especially with members of his own Democratic Party. In the process, he was not getting much accomplished. That could be a reminder for Mr. Obama that coming out swinging doesn't guarantee carrying the day. Call it the sagacity of hope.
 That leads to yet another instructive note from New York.
 In Albany, Democrats are about to control all the levers of political power for the first time in seven decades. They have the governorship, the Assembly and, thanks to Tuesday's election, the State Senate. Their situation mirrors the one in Washington, where Democrats will claim the White House and both houses of Congress. So both Mr. Obama and Gov. David A. Paterson should have smooth sailing, right?
 Yeah, right.
 Sharing a party label in no way means that Mr. Paterson can count on Albany's Dr. No, a k a Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker. And several dissident Democrats have already indicated they are not eager to get in line with their party leadership. 
 So Mr. Paterson may have rough going. Soon-to-be-President Obama ought to pay heed.
 Similarly, he may want to learn from a Paterson miscue what can happen if you do not assiduously vet the people in your inner circle. The last person Mr. Obama needs at his side is an embarrassment like Charles J. O'Byrne, who was the governor's right-hand man until it was discovered that he had been a lapsed taxpayer, suffering from what his lawyer passed off as ''late-filing syndrome.''
 From Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Mr. Obama can absorb how to fiddle with the rules, as the mayor did in leaning on the City Council to alter the term-limits law to give him a shot at a third term. (For all we know, Mr. Bloomberg has already inspired another president. That would be Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, who proposed on Wednesday that the Russian presidential term be stretched to six years from four. Unlike Mr. Bloomberg, however, Mr. Medvedev suggested that the change apply only to future officeholders.) 
 ON a more positive note, the mayor offers a model for making really hard choices early on, and thus getting them out of the way.
 Faced with enormous budget deficits when he took office in 2002, he quickly raised taxes and cut municipal services. No one liked it. His approval ratings plummeted to Bush-like levels. But front-loading the pain proved to be sensible. In time, New York's finances improved, and the mayor's popularity soared. That may give him more leverage to impose new rounds of belt-tightening in the present economic upheaval.
 That Bloomberg example may warrant Mr. Obama's attention. Then again, the president-elect is one smart cookie. He can figure all this out for himself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, victorious on election night in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (69%); SCANDALS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); TERRORISM (50%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



300 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Using Restraint With Bailouts

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON and LAUREN SILVA

 BODY:
If banks can get government capital that costs as little as 5 percent a year, why shouldn't the automakers, retailers or even struggling media groups?
Unlike banks, such companies weren't responsible for the current mess.
This argument is so seductive that governments across the world will be hard pressed to resist it. Indeed, one of Barack Obama's first tasks as president may be to announce whether General Motors, Ford and Chrysler get federal aid.
But Mr. Obama and leaders of other countries must do their best to stem the torrent of beggars. This is partly because federal aid will drain the public purse at a time when fiscal deficits are already high. Governments should save what little firepower they have left for really deserving cases, like the growing army of unemployed. Bailouts also distort markets: as weak companies are propped up, vibrant ones find it harder to grow. 
Ideally, governments would make the banking bailouts so unpleasant that other industries would hesitate to request the aid. Sadly, in most countries, that hasn't happened. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, has been particularly lax, allowing banks to sell preference shares to the government with a dividend of only 5 percent. European governments have done a bit better. Only Britain has been adequately punitive, charging its banks 12 percent.
It's not too late to do better.
In Europe, some governments like Italy haven't completed their schemes. If they are too generous, the European Commission could send them back to the drawing board. Indeed, it is already questioning whether Germany's bailout of Commerzbank, which includes a dollop of capital with a 5.5 percent coupon, is too generous.
Meanwhile, in the United States, Mr. Obama has the opportunity to distance himself from Mr. Paulson's bailout. He can say that Mr. Paulson, the former head of Goldman Sachs, was far too close to Wall Street and, in any case, he was part of the previous regime. It won't be easy to say no to troubled industries. But doing so is an important test of leadership.
A Fix for Blackstone
If the Blackstone Group took the advice it doles out to companies, it would probably go private. The asset management firm, run by Steve Schwarzman, had a big net loss in the third quarter and warned that it might cut its fourth-quarter dividend. The stock is 75 percent below its price when the company went public last year. And with debt markets closed and its portfolio assets falling in value, its prospects look rough for some time to come. Private equity firms tell chief executives facing challenges like these to take their companies private so they can work through their troubles without having to kowtow to meddlesome shareholders. If Mr. Schwarzman really believes that his firm can overcome its challenges, it might make sense for him to take that advice himself and snap up Blackstone's shares at their current level.
The precipitous decline in Blackstone's stock would make financing the deal a cinch. Mr. Schwarzman alone made over $677 million in the original I.P.O. last June when Blackstone sold shares at $31 apiece. With that capital, he could buy back nearly half of the shares issued in the original deal himself, even if he gave existing shareholders a 15 percent premium to the current stock price.
Mr. Schwarzman would have to find another $700 million to buy the remaining outstanding shares. Since banks aren't lending and the firm probably can't afford interest expenses now anyway, Blackstone must persuade a big equity investor to step up.
That shouldn't be too hard.
Indeed, one of its current investors, the Chinese Investment Corporation, might be willing, judging by recent moves to increase its stake. Some of the investors in the funds managed by Blackstone could be interested, too.
Of course if Blackstone were to go private, it would no longer have the advantages that made it go public in the first place, like the ability to use its stock to hire top talent or buy other companies. But given its dismal performance, the stock is not much good for that.
Blackstone expects its business to be in a better position a few years from now. If Mr. Schwarzman really believes that, it would make sense for him to reap the benefits himself. HUGO DIXON and LAUREN SILVA
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group. Its shares are down 75 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); GOING PRIVATE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DIVIDENDS (71%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (90%); CBK (FRA) (90%); BX (NYSE) (64%); GM (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (64%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



301 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: In Israel, Rice Faces Limited Prospects for Peace Process

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
TEL AVIV -- Winding up a year of intensive peace efforts, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrived here Thursday with a somewhat diminished vision of trying to keep Israeli-Palestinian negotiations alive.
At an American-sponsored peace conference last November in Annapolis, Md., Israeli and Palestinian leaders pledged to make every effort to reach a peace agreement based on President Bush's vision of two states for two peoples by the end of his term in January.
Since then, Ms. Rice has proved an indefatigable intermediary: this will be her eighth visit to the region in the past year. But the transitions and upheavals affecting politics in the United States and in Israel have already effectively frozen the talks. Citing the political turmoil in Israel, Ms. Rice implicitly acknowledged for the first time that there was little chance of an imminent deal. 
''Obviously, Israel is in the midst of elections, and that is a constraint on the ability of any government to conclude what is the core conflict,'' she told reporters on the plane as she flew in for talks with both sides.
Despite the seriousness of negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis, fundamental issues of the conflict have not yet been resolved, including the borders of a Palestinian state; security arrangements; the fate of Palestinian refugees who left their homes in 1948, or were forced to leave; and the status of Jerusalem.
The Bush administration now seems reconciled to the idea of a less ambitious legacy.
''It is our expectation that the Annapolis process has laid groundwork which should make possible the establishment of a Palestinian state when the political circumstances permit,'' Ms. Rice said.
With no state in sight, Ms. Rice and Tzipi Livni, Israel's foreign minister and chief negotiator, focused on presenting the improving environment for Palestinians in the West Bank as an achievement instead.
At a joint news conference at the residence of the United States ambassador, both noted that when Mr. Bush entered office eight years ago, the second intifada, or Palestinian uprising, was raging. The importance of the Annapolis process lies not only in the political negotiations, they said, but in the efforts to build the institutions of Palestinian statehood as well.
''I think we need to remember that Annapolis came after seven years of intifada and terror, and after Hamas took control of Gaza,'' Ms. Livni said.
Ms. Rice said this was the first time a process had tried to build conditions for peace ''from the ground up'' as well as ''from the top down.''
She spoke of the need ''to continue to advance the process'' and said she would remain committed to it until her last day in office. Yet the future of the talks is uncertain, their continuation largely dependent on the outcome of the Israeli election scheduled for Feb. 10.
Ms. Livni is embarking on a campaign to replace Ehud Olmert, the departing prime minister. Mr. Olmert was forced to resign as the result of a growing corruption investigation. As leader of the centrist Kadima Party, Ms. Livni is likely to run on a peace process ticket.
Her main challenger is Benjamin Netanyahu, a former prime minister and the leader of Likud, the right-wing opposition party. Mr. Netanyahu does not favor the model of negotiating a two-state solution, arguing instead for building an ''economic peace'' between Israelis and Palestinians from the bottom up.
In a letter to President-elect Barack Obama, congratulating him on his victory, Mr. Netanyahu said, ''I am confident that we will act together to achieve peace, security and prosperity for our region.''
Mr. Obama has said that he would not wait for years, as President Bush did, before engaging in the Israeli-Palestinian arena. But many here expect that he will first have to turn most of his attention to the financial crisis in the United States.
The Palestinian leadership under President Mahmoud Abbas is also entering a potentially choppy period, with Mr. Abbas's four-year term due to expire on Jan. 9. His Fatah party wants the term extended by a year so that presidential and parliamentary elections can be held together in 2010.
Hamas, the militant Islamist group, won parliamentary elections in 2006 and took control of Gaza last year, leaving Mr. Abbas with authority in the West Bank. But Hamas has threatened not to recognize Mr. Abbas's authority there if he extends his term.
Fatah and Hamas are supposed to start talks under Egyptian auspices aimed at reconciliation this weekend. A successful conclusion would probably mean some form of power-sharing, which could further complicate peace efforts; in the past, Israel has refused to deal with a Palestinian government that includes Hamas. But on Thursday, a top Hamas official said the group might boycott the talks because too few of its proposals were on the agenda, Reuters reported.
Ms. Rice is scheduled over the weekend to meet with other Israeli leaders, including Mr. Netanyahu, and with top Palestinian officials in the West Bank.
She will also travel to Jordan and to Sharm el Sheik, a Red Sea resort, to meet with Egyptian officials and to attend a meeting of the principals of the ''quartet'' of Middle East mediators: the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Tzipi Livni, Israel's foreign minister, spoke to reporters Thursday in Herzliya, Israel.(POOL PHOTO BY PAVEL WOLBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); HAMAS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); POLITICS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); REFUGEES (68%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TZIPORA LIVNI (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (90%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



302 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: LAWRENCE H. SUMMERS

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
Being considered for: Treasury secretary
 Would bring to the job: The fact that he has already done it, from 1999 to 2001, when he succeeded his boss, Robert E. Rubin, and served until the end of the Clinton administration. Known equally for his brilliance and his blunt manner, Mr. Summers has a deep understanding of global economic issues, at a time when the American mortgage crisis has leaped borders to become a worldwide contagion. 
 Is linked to Obama by: Other former Clinton administration officials, including Mr. Rubin and Laura Tyson, a former chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, who have both advised Mr. Obama. 
 In his own words:''In the current circumstances, the case for fiscal stimulus -- policy actions that increase short-term deficits -- is stronger than at any time in my professional lifetime. Unemployment is now almost certain to increase -- probably to the highest levels observed in a generation.''(From his monthly column in The Financial Times, Sept. 28, 2008.) 
 Used to work as: Chief economist at the World Bank and professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at Harvard. After leaving government in 2001, Mr. Summers became president of Harvard, where his soaring career fell to earth.
 Carries as baggage: His stormy tenure at Harvard, where his aggressive personal style and sharp-edged remarks -- including an observation that women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science -- provoked a bitter clash with the faculty, forcing his resignation after five years. 
 Though Mr. Summers apologized for the remark about women, women's groups may still object if Mr. Obama offers him a cabinet appointment. 
 Biography: Born Nov. 30, 1954. ... economics graduate of M.I.T. and Ph.D. at Harvard ... married a Harvard English professor, Elisa New, in 2005 ... has three children with his first wife, Victoria Perry. MARK LANDLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WOMEN (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



303 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Assembling Team, Turns to the Economy

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JACKIE CALMES; Jeff Zeleny reported from Chicago, and Jackie Calmes from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama moved swiftly on Thursday to fill his administration and form his response to the economic crisis. Mr. Obama scheduled his first post-election visit to the White House and convened an economic advisory board to meet here amid signs of a deteriorating financial outlook.
 With the global economy on a knife's edge, and labor figures on Friday very likely to show mounting American job losses, the financial markets, foreign leaders and even the Bush administration are looking to Mr. Obama for signs of how he will manage the crisis. 
 In responding, Mr. Obama must strike a delicate balance between cooperating with an unpopular president whose policies he campaigned to change, and the inclination to wait until he takes charge in two and a half months to prescribe his own remedies. 
 Adding to the pressure were steep drops in world financial markets on Thursday; the Dow Jones industrial average alone fell 443 points, or nearly 5 percent, compiling a two-day loss of nearly 1,000 points.
 Moving quickly on the transition, Mr. Obama announced his selection of Representative Rahm Emanuel as his White House chief of staff. The president-elect said he had made that choice because Mr. Emanuel had ''deep insights into the challenging economic issues that will be front and center for our administration.''
 In a long list of forthcoming appointments, aides said, Mr. Obama is acting with the greatest urgency toward choosing a Treasury secretary and is said to be considering Lawrence H. Summers, who held the post during the Clinton administration, and Timothy F. Geithner, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank. 
 Even as Mr. Obama moved toward assuming power, he was building on his commanding victory on Tuesday. He added North Carolina to his column, according an analysis of the election returns by The New York Times, capping an extraordinary campaign in a state that had not voted for a Democrat for president since 1976.
 The vote totals in North Carolina showed 49.9 percent for Mr. Obama and 49.5 percent for Senator John McCain, who was his Republican opponent. In his election to be the nation's 44th president, Mr. Obama had 364 electoral votes to Mr. McCain's 162, with 12 still to be decided -- 11 in Missouri and one in Nebraska.
 Mr. Obama announced that he would hold his first post-election news conference on Friday afternoon, but he remained largely out of sight on Thursday as a newly fortified Secret Service detail spirited him through Chicago. He arrived at the Federal Bureau of Investigation regional headquarters here to receive his first president's daily brief from Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence. 
 The transfer of power took place on two fronts, with President Bush summoning members of the White House staff to the South Lawn, where he pledged to make an ''unprecedented effort'' to ensure a smooth transition in the first handover of the presidency since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Mr. Bush said he would welcome Mr. Obama at the White House on Monday, the earliest such meeting after any recent presidential election. 
 ''We face economic challenges that will not pause to let a new president settle in,'' Mr. Bush said. ''This will also be America's first wartime transition in four decades.''
 Mr. Obama, who has declined to attend the president's global economic summit meeting on Nov. 15, said he looked forward to meeting with Mr. Bush and the first lady, Laura Bush, at what might be the only get-together by the president and his successor before Inauguration Day.
 ''I thank him for reaching out in the spirit of bipartisanship that will be required to meet the many challenges we face as a nation,'' said Mr. Obama, adding that his wife, Michelle, will join him as he visits the Oval Office and the rest of their future residence. Their two daughters will not be taken out of school for the trip.
 No incoming president in modern times has been so pressured to begin governing, in effect, before he is sworn into office. With that in mind, Mr. Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will meet on Friday with members of a new economic advisory board.
 The group, assembled to offer wide-ranging advice, includes the billionaire investor Warren Buffett; Mr. Summers and his predecessor as Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin; Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman; and Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google.
 Participants will also include Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan.
 Ms. Granholm is a strong proponent of a stimulus package in the lame-duck Congressional session. Previewing her advice to Mr. Obama, she sent a letter on Thursday to Congressional leaders urging them to finance public infrastructure projects, extend unemployment and food stamp benefits and provide aid to states and more assistance for the troubled auto industry.
 ''Michigan, and every state, needs swift action and leadership from Washington to address the short term challenges our national and state economies are facing,'' Ms. Granholm wrote.
 While Mr. Obama is focusing heavily on the economy, advisers said he is working on all areas of his administration. He spent Thursday afternoon making and receiving calls, his time divided with the same precise scheduling he used during his highly disciplined presidential campaign.
 In a makeshift office in Chicago, he also spoke to nine world leaders, including President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
 Mr. Obama is trying to build his team amid the fevered speculation that typically grips Washington during times of transition about who will fill the new administration, where names are often floated with little bearing on the actual selection process.
 For example, some in Washington focused on reports that Mr. Obama might name former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, a Republican who endorsed him before the election, as his education secretary. But one of Mr. Powell's closest friends shot that idea down Thursday.
 ''Fuhgeddaboutit,'' Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former Reagan White House chief of staff, said in his best Brooklyn accent. ''What he has told everybody is he is not a candidate for anything.''
 Mr. Obama, however, was set to place two of his top advisers near him in the Oval Office. David Axelrod is going to assume a position of senior adviser to the president, officials said, and Robert Gibbs is poised to be named White House press secretary.
 On the economy, Mr. Obama is working with Democratic leaders in Congress who are making plans for two stimulus packages. The first would be smaller, perhaps up to $100 billion, to be passed in a lame-duck session this month in hopes of getting Mr. Bush's signature. The second would be larger, including tax cuts for low- and middle-income workers, to be ready as soon as late January.
 Mr. Obama is coordinating with Congressional Democrats behind the scenes on the stimulus plans, which would include more jobless benefits, food stamps, aid to financially strapped states and cities, and spending for infrastructure projects that keep people at work. His chief liaison has been Mr. Emanuel.
 ''You don't ever want a crisis to go to waste; it's an opportunity to do important things that you would otherwise avoid,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an interview. ''In 1974 and 1978 we never dealt with it, and our dependence on foreign oil never changed.''
 Although the cooperation with the Democratic-controlled Congress is expected to go smoothly, the coordination with the Bush White House is a dicier matter. The Obama camp is feeling pressure from the administration, according to several people familiar with the situation, specifically from Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., to ''co-own'' the bailout program, which remains unpopular among voters despite a broad consensus that it was essential to avert wider economic collapse.
 The Treasury has reserved office space, so far unused, for Obama representatives. Mr. Paulson has sought Mr. Obama's advice into the choice of a permanent director of the bailout program, and a commitment that Mr. Obama, once he is president, will keep the person on.
 No decisions have been made about how Mr. Obama should proceed, advisers say, and Friday's session with the Obama economic board is not expected to settle matters. Having promised change, Mr. Obama is not eager to join hands with Mr. Bush on the bailout. 
 But several Democrats said for Mr. Obama to stay aloof, as Franklin D. Roosevelt did before he succeeded Herbert Hoover amid the Depression, or to criticize the actions of the Bush administration could further destabilize financial markets as they seek clarity about the government's policies. It would also mean that the Bush administration might take actions that would bind Mr. Obama's hands as president. 
 A Treasury spokeswoman, Brookly McLaughlin, in an interview disputed the suggestions that Mr. Paulson was pressuring the Obama camp. Ms. McLaughlin cited a public statement from Mr. Paulson on Thursday in which he congratulated Mr. Obama and added, ''A methodical and orderly transition is in the best interests of the financial markets, and Treasury is committed to making sure that the incoming team can hit the ground running in January.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, who went for a morning workout on Thursday in Chicago, plans a news conference on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RAHM EMANUEL (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); MIKE MCCONNELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



304 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Some Philanthropists Are No Longer Content to Work Quietly

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
It is hard to mistake Peter G. Peterson, a Wall Street billionaire and commerce secretary in the Nixon administration, for Michael Moore, the wise-cracking anti-establishment filmmaker.
 But as one of the nation's newest mega-philanthropists, Mr. Peterson has taken a page from Mr. Moore's playbook, financing the documentary ''I.O.U.S.A.,'' a searing look at the country's addiction to debt. 
 ''We just think that when you're worried and concerned about something so important, you have to speak out,'' said Mr. Peterson, a co-founder of the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm.
 He is one of a growing number of philanthropists whose foundations are spending increasing amounts and raising their voices to influence public policy -- a marked shift from their traditional position. 
 Among those speaking out to advance causes are George Soros, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, Warren E. Buffett, Jeff Skoll and Bill Gates. 
 Even established foundations are behaving more boldly.
 Take, for example, the efforts by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund to persuade Exxon Mobil, the oil company and descendant of John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust, to increase its investments in alternative energy.
 Rather than simply trying to sway corporate executives behind the scenes, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund courted news media coverage, and Rockefeller family members spoke out against Exxon Mobil's leadership, as did the foundation's president, Stephen B. Heintz.
 Joel L. Fleishman, author of ''The Foundation: A Great American Secret,'' cited three reasons for foundations' interest in influencing public policy: greater ambition to tackle big and seemingly intractable problems; growing frustration over government gridlock caused by partisanship; and an increasing number of foundations that plan to spend down their assets by a specific date, making them eager to make a mark upon the world.
 ''Many foundation donors and trustees are just avid about the issues they care about and willing to push limits as far as they can to get things done,'' Mr. Fleishman said. ''They're frustrated and want to show they have an impact.''
 Last January, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation named Geoffrey Lamb, a former World Bank executive, as its managing director for public policy, and it has a staff of ''advocates'' who inform the news media, policy makers and others about the foundation's work. 
 The Atlantic Philanthropies, which for years operated behind unmarked doors in a Manhattan office building and made its gifts anonymously, recently published a report urging greater foundation support for advocacy, the word many foundations use to describe their public policy efforts. This fall, it hired a director of advocacy.
 And the two largest grants ever made by the James Irvine Foundation went to separate efforts to persuade the California Legislature to overhaul the state's vocational education programs and to reform its fiscal policies and budgeting processes.
 The foundation's president and chief executive, James E. Canales, said: ''Our grant in 2006 toward building multiple pathways to success after high school was $6 million out of roughly $60 million in total that we spent that year. We had never made such a big investment in what is essentially an advocacy effort, but the following year, we made another one that was just as large and also for advocacy.''
 Another sign of the change in foundation attitudes was Atlantic's choice last year of a new leader, Gara LaMarche. Mr. LaMarche had been director of United States programs at Mr. Soros's Open Society Institute, which focuses on influencing public policy. Atlantic's chairman, Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., said the foundation's change of heart had to do with its founder's decision to be an ''apostle'' for ''giving while living,'' or doing all one's philanthropic giving while alive.
 ''You can't be an apostle for anything if nobody knows who you are and what you're doing,'' Mr. Schwarz said.
 One example of Atlantic's influence on public policy is the Older and Bolder Campaign it helped create in Ireland. The program mobilized the elderly, ran advertisements highlighting age-related issues and lobbied policy makers. Those efforts resulted in a new cabinet-level position, minister of state for older people, to represent the interests of Ireland's elderly. When the government recently announced plans to cut programs for the elderly, Older and Bolder helped force an almost immediate reversal.
 The Gates Foundation spends roughly 10 percent of the more than $1 billion it gives away each year on advocacy efforts like increasing public awareness of issues; helping nonprofits reach policy makers and the public; and working with policy makers to provide information, expertise and ideas.
 Patty Stonesifer, the Gates Foundation's former chief executive, said the problems that the foundation was seeking to conquer -- H.I.V./AIDS, malnutrition, the failings of public education -- were so enormous that success required involving government.
 ''The issues we care about,'' Ms. Stonesifer said, ''are issues that require public engagement, so advocacy is kind of baked into the way we do things.''
 The foundation selectively deploys Bill Gates, a reluctant celebrity, as its chief advocate -- and to good effect. Take, for example, his speech in 2005 at the annual meeting of the National Governors Association, where he called for a national standard for measuring graduation rates, among other things.
 At that time, each state calculated such statistics differently, making it impossible to get a true picture of graduation rates for the nation as a whole. Today, all 50 states have agreed to use the same standard.
 Ms. Stonesifer cautioned, however, that it was difficult to link changes in public policy to a foundation's investments in advocacy. The Gates Foundation is often credited with helping increase government aid to combat AIDS internationally, but, Ms. Stonesifer said, ''you don't really know what did cause it to rise, though we do feel like we were part of the range of voices and provided some of the evidence that led to it.''
 The Peter G. Peterson Foundation will not face a similar challenge, as it is perhaps the only philanthropic organization seeking to address the issue of taxes, deficits and fiscal responsibility. 
 In addition to its involvement with ''I.O.U.S.A.,'' Mr. Peterson's foundation is using advertising and public appearances by foundation experts to educate the public and increase engagement in those issues. 
 Its Web site offers op-ed articles and letters to public officials and editors, some of which have appeared in newspapers.
 All members of Congress received a copy of a report by the foundation, ''The State of the Union's Finances,'' and Mr. Peterson and David M. Walker, the foundation's chief executive, have met with members of both parties to discuss the nation's deficit.
 ''Each foundation has to make up its own mind about its mission and how best to accomplish that mission,'' Mr. Walker said. ''I do believe, however, that foundations have been very cautious and somewhat conservative about whether and to what extent they want to get involved in advocacy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter G. Peterson's organization is aggressively addressing the issue of fiscal responsibility.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); WRITERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (90%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%); JEFF SKOLL (58%); BILL GATES (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%); GEORGE SOROS (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



305 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Agenda

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2008, is a date that will live in fame (the opposite of infamy) forever. If the election of our first African-American president didn't stir you, if it didn't leave you teary-eyed and proud of your country, there's something wrong with you.
 But will the election also mark a turning point in the actual substance of policy? Can Barack Obama really usher in a new era of progressive policies? Yes, he can. 
 Right now, many commentators are urging Mr. Obama to think small. Some make the case on political grounds: America, they say, is still a conservative country, and voters will punish Democrats if they move to the left. Others say that the financial and economic crisis leaves no room for action on, say, health care reform.
 Let's hope that Mr. Obama has the good sense to ignore this advice.
 About the political argument: Anyone who doubts that we've had a major political realignment should look at what's happened to Congress. After the 2004 election, there were many declarations that we'd entered a long-term, perhaps permanent era of Republican dominance. Since then, Democrats have won back-to-back victories, picking up at least 12 Senate seats and more than 50 House seats. They now have bigger majorities in both houses than the G.O.P. ever achieved in its 12-year reign. 
 Bear in mind, also, that this year's presidential election was a clear referendum on political philosophies -- and the progressive philosophy won.
 Maybe the best way to highlight the importance of that fact is to contrast this year's campaign with what happened four years ago. In 2004, President Bush concealed his real agenda. He basically ran as the nation's defender against gay married terrorists, leaving even his supporters nonplussed when he announced, soon after the election was over, that his first priority was Social Security privatization. That wasn't what people thought they had been voting for, and the privatization campaign quickly devolved from juggernaut to farce.
 This year, however, Mr. Obama ran on a platform of guaranteed health care and tax breaks for the middle class, paid for with higher taxes on the affluent. John McCain denounced his opponent as a socialist and a ''redistributor,'' but America voted for him anyway. That's a real mandate.
 What about the argument that the economic crisis will make a progressive agenda unaffordable?
 Well, there's no question that fighting the crisis will cost a lot of money. Rescuing the financial system will probably require large outlays beyond the funds already disbursed. And on top of that, we badly need a program of increased government spending to support output and employment. Could next year's federal budget deficit reach $1 trillion? Yes.
 But standard textbook economics says that it's O.K., in fact appropriate, to run temporary deficits in the face of a depressed economy. Meanwhile, one or two years of red ink, while it would add modestly to future federal interest expenses, shouldn't stand in the way of a health care plan that, even if quickly enacted into law, probably wouldn't take effect until 2011. 
 Beyond that, the response to the economic crisis is, in itself, a chance to advance the progressive agenda.
 Now, the Obama administration shouldn't emulate the Bush administration's habit of turning anything and everything into an argument for its preferred policies. (Recession? The economy needs help -- let's cut taxes on rich people! Recovery? Tax cuts for rich people work -- let's do some more!)
 But it would be fair for the new administration to point out how conservative ideology, the belief that greed is always good, helped create this crisis. What F.D.R. said in his second inaugural address -- ''We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics'' -- has never rung truer. 
 And right now happens to be one of those times when the converse is also true, and good morals are good economics. Helping the neediest in a time of crisis, through expanded health and unemployment benefits, is the morally right thing to do; it's also a far more effective form of economic stimulus than cutting the capital gains tax. Providing aid to beleaguered state and local governments, so that they can sustain essential public services, is important for those who depend on those services; it's also a way to avoid job losses and limit the depth of the economy's slump. 
 So a serious progressive agenda -- call it a new New Deal -- isn't just economically possible, it's exactly what the economy needs.
 The bottom line, then, is that Barack Obama shouldn't listen to the people trying to scare him into being a do-nothing president. He has the political mandate; he has good economics on his side. You might say that the only thing he has to fear is fear itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



306 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Mayor's Plan, The Plastic Bag Will Carry a Fee

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Jennifer Mascia and Mick Meenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In its struggle to make New York more green, the Bloomberg administration has tried discouraging people from using plastic bags. It has taken out ads beseeching residents to use cloth bags and set up recycling bins for plastic bags at supermarkets.
 But now the carrots have been put away, and the stick is out: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has called for charging shoppers 6 cents for every plastic bag needed at the register.
 If the proposal passes, New York City would follow the lead of many European countries and become one of the first places in the United States to assess a so-called plastic bag tax.
 Seattle voters will weigh in on a similar measure next year, and other places, like Los Angeles and Dallas, have studied the idea. 
 City officials estimate that the fee could generate $16 million a year, a figure that Mr. Bloomberg would no doubt appreciate, given the lingering and concussive effects of the global economic crisis on the city's economy.
 But while the fee would burnish Mr. Bloomberg's environmental record, it might not be a lasting source of revenue. Just a few weeks after Ireland adopted a similar, though much heftier tax in 2002 -- charging shoppers 33 cents a bag -- plastic bag use dropped 94 percent, and within a year, nearly everyone in that country had purchased reusable cloth bags. Still, the mayor believes that the 6-cent fee would have a major impact on consumers' behavior. 
 Environmentalists like the sound of Mr. Bloomberg's idea. But from the corner deli to the high-end grocery store, other New Yorkers are not so sure.
 At the 2000 N.Y. Deli on Second Avenue at 103rd Street in East Harlem, the owner, Sammy Ali, 30, said his customers would balk at paying for plastic. ''No way,'' Mr. Ali said on Thursday. ''They ask us for plastic bags for free as it is. When we say no, they curse us out. They demand a bag for a 25-cent bag of chips.''
 At Citarella on the Upper West Side, a customer, Anita Ramautar, said she would begrudgingly change her behavior, if only to deny the city the pleasure of collecting the money. ''I'll bring my own bag,'' she said. ''Why would I give them 5 cents?''
 Ah, but remembering to bring that bag is another matter altogether. After all, New York is a place where people are almost programmed to do things impulsively, because it is so easy to just hop into a bodega or a deli or a 99-cent store to buy anything, anytime, no forethought required.
 ''You have to get used to using these,'' said Lauren Robertson, 54, an occupational therapist who lives in Washington Heights, who was loading groceries in canvas bags into her car in the Fairway parking lot on 130th Street near the Hudson River on Thursday morning. ''So many times I'd get into the store and realize I forgot my bags in the car.''
 Bloomberg officials say the proposal remains a work in progress. But for now, the plan is to charge customers 6 cents a bag at the point of sale, with 1 cent going to the store owner as an incentive to comply, said Marc La Vorgna, a Bloomberg spokesman. The officials did not elaborate on the mechanics of how the money would be remitted to the city, or how the law would be enforced. 
 It sounds like a tax, but officials call it a fee. The distinction is important: A fee requires approval only from the City Council, while a tax requires approval from the State Legislature.
 Unlike a number of ideas that seem to have been inspired by experiments in other countries (such as exploring wind power, based on windmills which Mr. Bloomberg saw off the coast of England, or temporarily closing off streets to cars, based on a program in Bogota, Colombia, that the mayor had heard about), this one, city officials say, was hatched in the mayor's Office of Long-Term Planning and Sustainability.
 The idea is not totally foreign to the metropolitan area. The Ikea furniture chain, which opened its first New York City store in June, on the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, began charging customers 5 cents for each plastic bag in 2007; since then, the store says, plastic bag use has been cut in half. Several large supermarket chains in the region, like Whole Foods Markets, offer refunds when customers bring reusable bags.
 Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that he was encouraged by the idea.
 ''It's simple, it's streamlined, it advances environmental objectives and it generates some funds,'' he said.
 And one environmentally conscious resident who applauded the idea was Richard Marshall, a retired opera director, who was shopping outside a Key Food supermarket in Astoria, Queens, on Thursday. 
 ''I think Bloomberg should start charging a dollar a bag,'' he said, clutching two reusable bags. ''All this waste. All these millions and millions of bags. They don't decompose, and they use all this oil to make them.''
 Several City Council members said they were intrigued, but needed to see more details. Several did note, however, that it was only a few months ago that the Council passed -- with the help of environmentalists and plastic bag manufacturers -- a law requiring all stores that provide plastic bags to accept plastic bags for recycling, with some exceptions. And during the lengthy public debate over that bill, council members heard speakers testify that fees of at least 25 cents a bag needed to be imposed to get consumers to change their behavior.
 Another concern is whether the tax would hurt poor residents, as well as small businesses, disproportionately -- a concern mentioned by council members, environmentalists and manufacturers alike.
 ''A tax on plastic shopping bags would be regressive, with the most severe impacts on those who are least able to absorb them,'' said Keith Christman, senior director of packaging for the American Chemistry Council, a manufacturers' lobby. ''There are better ways to protect the environment, to encourage sustainable choices and to support recycling without making it harder for those who are already struggling to make ends meet in a difficult economy.'' 
 Some residents, meanwhile, complained that the timing of the plan could not have been any worse, given that the mayor recently announced plans to raise property taxes earlier than expected, cut financing for a host of programs and possibly raise the sales or income tax.
 ''We're paying taxes on everything else; why not bags, right?'' Juana Perez, 25, of East Harlem, said with a sigh. ''How many other taxes is he going to raise?''
 ''These people,'' she continued, indicating the neighborhood at large, ''they already pay so much for rent and food.'' 
 ''New York City,'' she said, shaking her head.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cartful of plastic grocery bags in Queens on Thursday. Not everyone is happy with a city plan to charge shoppers 6 cents for every plastic bag they use.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Nadean Matra, 4, was framed in plastic at the Trade Fair supermarket on 30th Avenue in Queens on Thursday. Above, bags at a Fairway store in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



307 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Among Democrats' Leadership Questions: What to Do With Lieberman?

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As election returns in Oregon gave Democrats a sixth new seat in the Senate, Democratic leaders on Thursday began to confront some of the crucial personnel questions that would shape the next Congress, including the fate of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut after his ardent backing of Senator John McCain for president. 
 In the House, lawmakers continued their scramble for leadership positions, including an opening created by the appointment of Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, as the new White House chief of staff. 
 At the same time, the Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, announced that he was stepping down, apparently sparing the party a fight over its No. 2 post. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia is expected to be chosen for that job. 
 But the most immediate question was the fate of Mr. Lieberman, an independent who proved crucial over the last two years in the party's 51-to-49 edge. 
 That majority existed only because he and another independent, Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont, caucused with the Democrats. But Democrats were in the minority on issues related to national security and the war in Iraq because Mr. Lieberman in those cases voted with Republicans. 
 With the Democrats now guaranteed to hold at least 56 seats without Mr. Lieberman, he could be stripped of his chairmanship of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, a move that could prompt him to join the Republicans. 
 The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, met with Mr. Lieberman for a half-hour Thursday and issued a terse statement saying no decisions had been made. Aides, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Reid had suggested that Mr. Lieberman relinquish his chairmanship in exchange for a less prominent position. 
 At a brief news conference after the meeting, Mr. Lieberman promised to support President-elect Barack Obama, but he did not disclose his plans and did not take questions.
 Many Democrats say Mr. Lieberman had crossed a line not only by endorsing Mr. McCain, his longtime friend, but also serving as one of his closest advisers and by sharply questioning Mr. Obama's qualifications to be president. Some Senate Democrats and aides say it is unthinkable to let Mr. Lieberman head a committee that will conduct oversight of the Obama administration. 
 Mr. Reid restated the dismay felt by many Democrats. ''While I understand that Senator Lieberman has voted with Democrats a majority of the time, his comments and actions have raised serious concerns among many in our caucus,'' he said. 
 Mr. Lieberman, at his brief news conference, said he was considering his options, but he did not specify what those options were or indicate when he would make a decision. 
 ''The election is over,'' he said. ''And I completely agree with President-elect Obama that we must now unite to get our economy going again and to keep the American people safe. That is exactly what I intend to do with my colleagues here in the Senate in support of our new president, and those are the standards I will use in considering the options that I have before me.'' 
 Complicating the shuffle in committee assignments is the impending departure of Mr. Obama, the junior senator from Illinois, and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., the senior senator from Delaware. 
 Both will be replaced by Democrats, but their departures, particularly that of Mr. Biden, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, create numerous openings. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who is next in line for the Foreign Relations Committee post, said on Thursday that he would forgo that job in favor of retaining his chairmanship of the banking committee. 
 Mr. Dodd, at a news conference, said that the economy would be the most pressing issue of the next Congress and that he planned to oversee a revamping of the financial regulatory structure. 
 The Democratic leadership is also considering who will take the lead on the issue of national health care policy given the precarious state of Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, chairman of the health committee, who has brain cancer. 
 And Democrats are contemplating a delicate effort to replace Senator Robert C. Byrd Jr. of West Virginia, who turns 91 this month, as chairman of the Appropriations Committee. Mr. Byrd is the senior Senate Democrat, but some colleagues worry that he is no longer up to running the most powerful committee at a time of severe economic uncertainty. 
 The sixth new Democratic senator is Jeff Merkley, the speaker of the Oregon House, who defeated Senator Gordon H. Smith, a two-term Republican. Unofficial returns gave Mr. Smith, who conceded on Thursday, 45.7 percent to Mr. Merkley's 48.8 percent. 
 Officials continued to count votes in Alaska, where the Republican incumbent, Senator Ted Stevens, held a narrow lead over the Democrat, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage. And in Georgia, the candidates were gearing up for a Dec. 2 runoff after Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Republican, appeared to fall short of the 50 percent required for victory. Mr. Chambliss had 49.8 percent while his Democratic challenger, Jim Martin, had 46.8 percent. In Minnesota, a recount was under way after the Republican incumbent, Senator Norm Coleman, finished ahead of the Democrat, Al Franken, by fewer than 400 votes.
 Some Democratic senators said they could envision situations in which Mr. Lieberman retained his chairmanship. But the addition of at least six new Democrats makes it difficult for Mr. Reid to counter the arguments of caucus members who say Mr. Lieberman must be punished for his zealous efforts on behalf of Mr. McCain. 
 The decision will be made by the 19-member Democratic steering committee, which proposes chairmanships and committee assignments for ratification by the entire Democratic caucus. Mr. Reid said Mr. Lieberman would meet with the caucus in the next two weeks. 
 Mr. Emanuel's decision to join the White House staff opens up the chairmanship of the House Democratic Caucus, the No. 4 position. Representative John B. Larson of Connecticut, the vice chairman, has announced his interest. Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who led the campaign effort for House Democrats, will also probably be a candidate.
 In the Republican ranks, Mr. Blunt of Missouri, the No. 2 party leader, said he would step down, keeping a promise he had made to leave if the Republicans did not win back the House in 2008. 
 ''I'm going to see what it is like to be a member of Congress,'' said Mr. Blunt, who has been in leadership roles since 1999.
 The two parties will hold House leadership elections the week of Nov. 17. At the moment, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, is not being challenged for the top slot despite double-digit losses by Republicans for a second consecutive election. 
 Representative Mike Pence of Indiana is running for the vacant No. 3 post of conference chairman and has Mr. Boehner's backing. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about scientists who decoded all the genes of a person with cancer, finding mutations that offered clues to the disease's progression, misspelled the given name of a cancer expert who praised the study. He is Dr. Stephen Nimer, not Steven.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is not sure which direction he is going in the Senate leadership.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (78%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); ROY BLUNT (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



308 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Owner With Business Pedigree Seeks a Helping Hand

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Merritt Paulson left his N.B.A. job last year to buy the minor league baseball and soccer teams in Portland, Ore. His chief adviser and financier in the $16 million sports spree was his father, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
''I had to convince him that this wouldn't be some sort of vanity play and sell the business plan to him,'' said Paulson, who owns 80 percent of the teams with his father owning the rest. ''The terms had to make sense from a family standpoint.'' He added, ''Historically, my father's been my best source of advice through my business career.''
The elder Paulson was the chairman of Goldman Sachs when his son settled on his Portland strategy. But as the engineer of the $700 billion economic bailout, the Treasury secretary is not preoccupied with the Beavers of the Class AAA Pacific Coast League or the Timbers of the United Soccer Leagues First Division.
''He's aware of what's happening, but he hasn't had much time for this,'' said Paulson, who was born Henry Merritt Paulson III and is called Merritt, like his grandfather. 
Paulson, 35, is immersed in a more ambitious, riskier stage of his sports plan, one that puts him in the middle of a continuing debate about the economic value of government investments and incentives for stadiums that benefit private team owners.
The debate grows more resonant given the worldwide economic crisis.
Paulson wants a Major League Soccer expansion team for Portland, which became known as Soccer City U.S.A. when the Timbers of the N.A.S.L. played there in the 1970s and '80s. He said he was willing to use $40 million in family money to buy it. Six other cities have applied for the two franchises that are expected to be awarded early next year.
To make his plan work, Paulson wants an $85 million package of city and state financing to renovate PGE Park, where the Beavers and Timbers now play, into a 23,000-seat soccer-only stadium, and to build a Beavers ballpark at a separate location.
''This is not a negotiation,'' Paulson said. ''The $85 million is it.''
Sam Adams, a city commissioner who will become the mayor on Jan. 1, chuckled.
''I guess that's the opening salvo of the negotiations,'' he said by telephone.
Adams and another commissioner on the City Council, Randy Leonard, support the project and reason that an M.L.S. team will increase the city's national and international exposure, visitors and attendance in a market with one major league team, the N.B.A.'s Trail Blazers.
But they said they wanted to keep Paulson's plan from using taxes that would diminish services in a city where recessionary effects usually lag behind the rest of the country.
Paulson has proposed using team revenues and ticket taxes to repay city-issued bonds, taxes from economic activity that would ostensibly increase in a commercial district around the renovated stadium, and a state income tax on players' salaries.
''I'm not willing to do this unless I can see a reasonable return in three to five years,'' said Adams, who has proposed other sites to reduce costs. ''It's got to pay for itself.''
Leonard said: ''We have to limit our liability, and Merritt has to have a fair amount of skin in this game. My position is to get him to pay for as much of it as we can.''
Paulson is sensitive to criticism that great family wealth should require him to pay for the stadiums, or that he is seeking a bailout, like the one his father is overseeing.
''That idea is based on the assumption that I'm dealing with huge pools of family trust money,'' he said. ''Everything I've worked from is a legal loan. We're making a considerable private investment, and we're saying there needs to be infrastructure.''
Adams knows the city will provide some financing and does not expect Paulson to pay for everything. ''Wealthy people tend to be wealthy because they're shrewd business folks,'' he said. ''Private owners need a return, but we don't want them to get unduly rich off us.''
Still, critics of public financing, like Tom Potter, the current mayor, and Jody Wiser, chairwoman of Tax Fairness Oregon, believe the city and state should not enter the stadium business. ''This is a private business that needs to support itself,'' she said. ''There's no real evidence of public subsidies providing great returns to cities.''
Mark Rosentraub, a professor of urban affairs at Cleveland State University, said the goal of public financing was not to subsidize private businesses but to stimulate public returns. ''If Portland can engender new development that can generate new property taxes to pay for its investment, then the deal could be worthwhile,'' he said.
Paulson grew up enamored of baseball, basketball and football, and marketed NBA TV while at the league. But for three of his five years there, he spent his spare time looking at investing in minor league baseball, the N.B.A. Development League and soccer.
''Portland was just the most attractive opportunity, with an incredibly strong Triple-A baseball market and one of the best soccer markets, by any metrics,'' he said.
Moving up the soccer hierarchy to owning an M.L.S. team suggests a heightened stability to a league in which teams are now worth $40 million or more. Over all, it is still not profitable, but it is losing far less than it once did. It has lured David Beckham and investors like Oscar De La Hoya. It has created intimacy with soccer-specific stadiums and fostered stability with long-term television deals. ''There are no longer questions about our survival,'' Commissioner Don Garber said. ''The question now is, how far we can go?''
Similar questions face Paulson: Will he receive stadium financing, as other M.L.S. teams have, and will he get it in time for the expansion vote in the first quarter of 2009?
''Look, you have to be a believer,'' Paulson said. ''This is a vetted market in terms of its appetite for soccer and has a corporate community ready to support an M.L.S. team.''
If he does not receive the financing, Paulson said he would continue running his two minor league teams. He is not facing a crisis or city officials who do not want to negotiate with him.
''All I'm doing is presenting an opportunity,'' he said. ''It's been embraced, but it doesn't mean it will happen. I'm not holding a gun to anyone's head.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Merritt Paulson, the son of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., wants to bring an M.L.S. expansion team to Portland, Ore.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BOYD/THE OREGONIAN)
 Merritt Paulson is asking for public financing to renovate PGE Park, home to Portland's minor league soccer and baseball teams. Paulson wants an $85 million package to make the park a soccer-only stadium, and to build a ballpark at a separate location.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG MITCHELLDYER/PORTLAND BEAVERS)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); MAYORS (75%); BAILOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CITIES (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



309 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Shepherd of a Government in Exile

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
John D. Podesta, co-chairman of President-elect Barack Obama's transition team, has spent the last five years building up liberals' policy-making muscle as president of a lavishly financed research organization, the Center for American Progress.
 Founded in 2003 by Mr. Podesta, who was chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, the center has grown into a 180-employee, $25-million-a-year star in the constellation of Washington ''think tanks,'' amounting to a government in exile for liberal policy experts. Its roster includes other prominent veterans of the Clinton administration, among them Gene B. Sperling and Laura Tyson, both former White House economic advisers. 
 The center does not disclose who finances its activities, a policy it is declining to change even as Mr. Podesta prepares to wield influence over the shape of the Obama administration.
 ''Some donors choose to make public what they are giving us, but others don't, and we respect that,'' said Jennifer M. Palmieri, the center's senior vice president for communications. 
 The lack of transparency is hardly unique. The law does not require such organizations to say who their contributors are, and most conceal their donors' identities, in part to keep from being raided by rivals, said James G. McGann, director of the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program at the University of Pennsylvania.
 Still, scattered news reports over the last five years have identified several Democratic-leaning donors who have provided millions of dollars to Mr. Podesta's project, and Ms. Palmieri did not dispute those names.
 They include the billionaire investor George Soros; Peter B. Lewis, chairman of Progressive Insurance; the Hollywood producer Steve Bing; and Herb and Marion Sandler, who made billions in the mortgage industry before selling their company in 2006 and who have given about $20 million to the project.
 In addition, a database of grants from charitable foundations that is maintained by the Foundation Center, a philanthropy group, shows that from 2003 to 2007, the Center for American Progress received about $15 million in grants from 58 foundations.
 Professor McGann said such research organizations all shared the problem of maintaining independence from donors. But, he said, Mr. Podesta's may be less susceptible to conflicts of interest than those financed primarily by a single patron.
 ''When there is a range of funders,'' he said, ''even if they are all left of center,'' the beneficiary is not ''beholden to any one of them or any single group.''
 Mr. Podesta did not respond to an interview request made through Ms. Palmieri. But she emphasized that he had set up the Center for American Progress in a way to keep it at arm's length from its patrons.
 ''You want to be careful that you are able to maintain autonomy in your work,'' she said. ''So our donors and our board members don't direct policy projects or weigh in on our policy positions. And we don't accept donations for directed work'' -- that is, work in which donors want their money used to study a specific issue.
 After the Clinton administration, Mr. Podesta initially worked as a lobbyist, taking on clients like the Nevada Resort Association and the American Insurance Association. But after the Republican sweep in the 2002 midterm elections, he decided to focus on helping Democrats rebuild.
 He observed that a leading source of the Republicans' success was their superior intellectual infrastructure: institutions outside government that helped develop and communicate pragmatic conservative ideas, even when the party was not in power.
 Mr. Podesta focused on building a liberal counterweight to the conservative Heritage Foundation, a well-financed group that has funneled experts into government positions and produces readable policy reports for Congress. That counterweight became the Center for American Progress.
 Among those he has recruited there are Jeanne M. Lambrew, a former White House health adviser, and several former officials of the National Security Council, including Morton H. Halperin, Gayle Smith and P. J. Crowley. The center was also home to other prominent Democrats looking for a perch during the period of Republican hegemony, including Tom Daschle, the former majority leader who lost his Senate seat in 2004, and Elizabeth Edwards, wife of former Senator John Edwards. 
 Mr. Podesta has also poured money into building up liberal political communications. The center schedules events that often end up being shown on C-Span; sponsors about 60 liberal college newspapers; hosts a prominent blog, ThinkProgress.org; and provides a free downloadable daily news package called Mic Check for liberal radio stations to broadcast.
 With Democrats back in control of the executive branch, the question now, Professor McGann said, is whether the center will keep going. If its policy experts all leave for government jobs, he said, it could collapse as quickly as it rose.
 Mr. Podesta, for one, plans to stay. On Wednesday, when he was named to the transition team, he sent an e-mail message to the center's staff pledging that ''I will not be joining the new administration and will return to American Progress after the transition ends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John D. Podesta founded the Center for American Progress, where he was visited two years ago by his onetime boss.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

PERSON: JOHN PODESTA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); HERB SANDLER (56%); STEVE BING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



310 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Bush Warns of Vulnerability in a Transition

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush, warning that terrorists ''would like nothing more than to exploit this period of change,'' said Thursday that he intended to talk to President-elect Barack Obama on Monday about issues that will face his administration, including the turmoil in the financial markets and the war in Iraq.
 The White House is especially concerned that the nation will be vulnerable during the transition between the Bush and Obama administrations. In one sign of that, Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence, flew to Chicago to present Mr. Obama with his first top-secret intelligence briefing on Thursday. 
 ''For the next 75 days, all of us must ensure that the next president and his team can hit the ground running,'' Mr. Bush said in an emotional speech to hundreds of employees of the executive branch on the South Lawn of the White House. He urged them to ''conduct yourselves with the decency and professionalism that you have shown throughout my time in office.''
 Mr. Bush has said he is determined to conduct an orderly transition. The White House wants to avoid a repeat of the kind of news reports that plagued President Bill Clinton when he left office amid questions about whether members of his staff, irked at having to turn their offices over to Republicans, removed the letter W from some computer keyboards.
 To that end, the president has established a formal transition council that has already sought advice from outside experts, among them a former Clinton chief of staff, Mack McLarty. In an interview on Thursday, Mr. McLarty praised the effort as ''more formal, more focused, more intense'' than any he had seen, adding, ''The times call for it.''
 The administration is already providing transition offices in downtown Washington to the Obama team. Congress provided roughly $40 million for transition-related activities in an omnibus spending bill signed by Mr. Bush in September. The money includes $8.5 million for the General Services Administration, which will provide office space, computers, telephones and support services to the incoming administration.
 Members of the Obama team are not federal employees and will therefore not have access to the secure government computers used by federal agencies, Bush administration officials said. But they will have access to e-mail and the Internet through a virtual private network.
 The new law also provides $8 million for the Executive Office of the President, which will see a big increase in personnel work for officials entering and leaving the government; $5.7 million for the White House to prepare electronic records for transfer to the National Archives; $15 million for security costs associated with the inauguration; and about $600,000 to cover the cost of a pension, office space and other benefits for Mr. Bush after he leaves the White House.
 The Bush-Obama transition is the first since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and much of the work is being conducted with an eye toward national security. At the Department of Homeland Security, for instance, Elaine C. Duke, an under secretary, is developing a ''transition and succession plan'' to be delivered to the Obama team by Dec. 1, as required by a 2007 law.
 ''We know that terrorists perceive government transitions to be periods of increased vulnerability,'' Ms. Duke said. 
 She cited the bombing of the World Trade Center five weeks after Mr. Clinton took office in 1993; the Madrid train bombings in 2004, three days before national elections in Spain; and the car-bomb plot in London and an attack in Glasgow just days after a new British prime minister took office in 2007.
 Elsewhere in the administration, officials are racing to complete budget options for the Obama team, without knowing whether they will be accepted or rejected. There is little choice; the business of government must go on, and the new administration will be expected to submit a budget to Congress in February, within weeks after Mr. Obama takes the oath of office.
 For example, said Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a policy research organization, senior Pentagon policy makers have developed a request for an additional $57 billion, above and beyond the regular Pentagon budget, to cover items like new weapons and rising fuel and health care costs. 
 ''This will be a minefield for the new administration,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''If Obama says no, he will be off to a bad start with the military.''
 John M. Kamensky, a management expert at the I.B.M. Center for the Business of Government, said he was ''very encouraged'' by the progress Mr. Obama had made in his first hours as president-elect. 
 ''Obama announced his transition team on Wednesday, not just one person, but a roster of people,'' said Mr. Kamensky, co-author of an ''Operator's Manual for the New Administration.''
 ''The most important thing for the new team is to focus on how the White House will operate,'' Mr. Kamensky added. ''At this stage, it's less important for them to think about specific policy decisions than about the decision-making process -- how they will filter the flood of information, who will make decisions, and how.''
 Even as he prepares to hand off his responsibilities to Mr. Obama, Mr. Bush has a full plate of his own. He is trying to wrap up negotiations with the government of Iraq on the continued United States presence there, is dealing with the worldwide financial crisis and will welcome leaders of 20 nations at a conference on the economy in Washington this month. 
 As he spoke on the South Lawn on Thursday, the president was joined by his wife, Laura, Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, and members of the cabinet. The White House was at his back; in front of him the South Lawn trees were ablaze with autumn colors under gray November skies. 
 The speech sounded like a valedictory. At the end, Mr. Bush vowed to keep his promise to ''sprint to the finish,'' a remark that seemed to push him to the verge of tears. 
 ''As we head into the final stretch, I ask you to remain focused on the goals ahead,'' Mr. Bush said, his lips pursed and his face reddening slightly. ''I will be honored to stand with you at the finish line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush, on the South Lawn of the White House on Thursday. In an emotional speech, he asked staff members to help make sure the transition to the new administration goes smoothly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (60%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MIKE MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



311 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Buying Guns, for Fear of Losing the Right to Bear Them

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Reporting was contributed by Thayer Evans from Houston; Steve Friess from Las Vegas; Dan Frosch from Lakewood, Colo.; Sean D. Hamill from Pittsburgh; and Pamela J. Podger from Missoula, Mont.

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Sales of handguns, rifles and ammunition have surged in the last week, according to gun store owners around the nation who describe a wave of buyers concerned that an Obama administration will curtail their right to bear arms.
 ''He's a gun-snatcher,'' said Jim Pruett, owner of Jim Pruett's Guns and Ammo in northwest Houston, which was packed with shoppers on Thursday. 
 ''He wants to take our guns from us and create a socialist society policed by his own police force,'' added Mr. Pruett, a former radio personality, of President-elect Barack Obama. 
 Mr. Pruett said that sales last Saturday, just before Election Day, ran about seven times higher than a typical good Saturday.
 A spot check by reporters in four other states easily found Mr. Pruett's comments echoed from both sides of the counter.
 David Nelson, a co-owner of Montana Ordnance & Supply in Missoula, Mont., said his buyers were ''awake and aware and see a dangerous trend.''
 Mr. Nelson said sales at his store had risen about 30 percent since Mr. Obama declared his candidacy. ''People are concerned about overreaching legislation from Washington,'' he said. ''They are educating themselves on the Internet.''
 In Colorado, would-be gun buyers set a one-day record last Saturday with the highest number of background check requests in a 24-hour period, according to figures from the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.
 ''We're not really sure who is promoting the concept that a change in federal administrations might affect firearms possession rights,'' said an agency spokesman, Lance Clem, ''but we do know that it's increased business considerably.''
 Federal law-enforcement officials cautioned that gun sales were extremely volatile. Nationally, rifle and handgun sales surged 17 percent, for example, in May, compared with May 2007, according to Federal Bureau of Investigation figures. That was before Mr. Obama had clinched the Democratic nomination. Sales then fell and were essentially flat by September compared with the year before, even as the campaign heated up, before rising 14 percent in October. November figures were not yet available.
 What is clear is that every gun seller -- not to mention every advocacy group for gun ownership that depends on dues-paying members -- has an incentive to stoke the concern that can prompt a gun sale. Political uncertainty, gun dealers say, is great for business.
 ''Clinton was the best gun salesman the gun manufacturers ever had,'' said Rick Gray, owner of the Accuracy Gun Shop in Las Vegas. ''Obama's going to be right up there with him.'' 
 Sales at his shop doubled on Wednesday, Mr. Gray said, to more than 20 guns from three to 10 on a typical day.
 Asked if that made him root for Democratic candidates, Mr. Gray said no. ''It's not all about profits; it's about what's he going to do for the country,'' he said, noting that he had supported Senator John McCain, who was the Republican nominee. 
 A National Rifle Association spokesman, Wayne LaPierre, dismissed the notion that the group had any incentive to increase gun sales or membership. ''Ridiculous,'' Mr. LaPierre said. ''I hope President-elect Obama keeps his promises and protects gun rights. If he does that, we'll be cheering.''
 The political battle over guns raged fiercely throughout the campaign in many states where gun ownership is common. On Monday, the day before the election, home-delivered copies of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette arrived in plastic bags that said, ''Vote Freedom First'' and ''Defend Freedom -- Defeat Obama.'' The bags were paid for by the N.R.A., whose initials were printed on each one.
 Democrats fired back all over the country, with mail campaigns in many states with fliers stating flatly that as president, Mr. Obama would respect an individual's right to own guns. 
 ''Obama will protect our gun rights,'' said one flier sent to homes in Minnesota. 
 In Montana, Gov. Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat, was photographed shooting his guns outdoors.
 But some gun buyers and sellers never forgot, or forgave, Mr. Obama's widely reported comment in April to a group in San Francisco that some Americans ''cling to guns or religion'' in times of adversity.
 ''It was an annoying comment, and it showed there's a lot more to him,'' said Mike Warner, 38, of Las Vegas, who was shopping for a gun there on Thursday. 
 Mr. Warner said he was an N.R.A. member and an owner of two guns but wanted at least one more. 
 Other people, even some shopping for guns, said they thought that some gun enthusiasts' fears about Mr. Obama were unjustified. James Sykes, a gun collector who was shopping at the Gun Room in Lakewood, Colo., called the rush to buy guns ''a lot of hysteria about very little.''
 Mr. Sykes, who said he had voted mostly Republican in the past but supported Mr. Obama this year, said that issues like war and the global economic crisis were more pressing for him right now and that he imagined the same was true for Mr. Obama. 
 ''My Second Amendment rights are unquestionably important to me, but so is feeding my family,'' he said. ''In reality, you won't be able to afford to buy a gun if your job goes overseas.'' 
 But markets, whether for guns or stocks and bonds, tend to move with their own internal dynamics even in -- perhaps especially in -- gloomy economic times. 
 Chris Casella, general manager of Federal Firearms Company in Oakdale, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh, said he had been fielding about 30 calls a day from people interested in buying assault-type rifles, especially semiautomatic weapons, often with magazines that could hold lots of ammunition. 
 ''A lot of people are buying them as an investment,'' Mr. Casella said. ''Better than gold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama is ''a gun-snatcher,'' said Jim Pruett, left, owner of Jim Pruett's Guns and Ammo in northwest Houston. He said sales had been booming recently.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); FIREARMS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (72%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (56%) MONTANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



312 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Tolerance Over Race Can Spread, Studies Find

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
This was supposed to be the election when hidden racism would rear its head. There was much talk of a ''Bradley effect,'' in which white voters would say one thing to pollsters and do another in the privacy of the booth; of a backlash in which the working-class whites whom Senator Barack Obama had labeled ''bitter'' would take their bitterness out on him.
 But lost in all that anguished commentary, experts say, was an important recent finding from the study of prejudice: that mutual trust between members of different races can catch on just as quickly, and spread just as fast, as suspicion. 
 In some new studies, psychologists have been able to establish a close relationship between diverse pairs -- black and white, Latino and Asian, black and Latino -- in a matter of hours. That relationship immediately reduces conscious and unconscious bias in both people, and also significantly reduces prejudice toward the other group in each individual's close friends. 
 This extended-contact effect, as it is called, travels like a benign virus through an entire peer group, counteracting subtle or not so subtle mistrust.
 ''It's important to remember that implicit biases are out there, absolutely; but I think that that's only half the story,'' said Linda R. Tropp, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Massachusetts. ''With broader changes in the society at large, people can also become more willing to reach across racial boundaries, and that goes for both minorities and whites.''
 Mr. Obama's election notwithstanding, institutional and individual prejudice still infects many areas of modern life, all experts agree. And this year, worries about the economy may have trumped any persistent concerns about race.
 Yet to the extent that race played a role at all, it seemed to break more in Mr. Obama's favor than against him. In voter surveys, most of the 17 percent of white voters who said race played some part in their decision pulled the lever for Mr. McCain; but among all voters who took race into account, Mr. Obama won the majority. 
 ''I'm a Republican, and for me to vote for Obama I had to have a certain level of trust, that he was going to do the right thing, that he wasn't going to be small-minded, that he wasn't going to take care of one group of people over another,'' said Nelson Montgomery, 50, a white sales executive in Buffalo who lived in a black neighborhood in Houston early in his career. 
 ''What it came down to,'' Mr. Montgomery said, ''is that we're so polarized right now, we're only hearing from the fringe on either side, and we need more than anything to build trust. And I felt he could do that.''
 In studies over the past few years, researchers have demonstrated how quickly trust can build in the right circumstances. To build a close relationship from scratch, psychologists have two strangers come together in four hourlong sessions. In the first, the two share their answers to a list of questions, from the innocuous ''Would you like to be famous? In what way?'' to the more serious, like ''If you could change anything about the way you were raised, what would it be?''
 In the second session, the pair competes against other pairs in a variety of timed parlor games. In the third, they talk about a variety of things, including why they are proud to be a member of their ethnic group, whether Latino, Asian, white or black. Finally, they take turns wearing a blindfold, while their partner gives instructions for navigating a maze. 
 Trivial as they may sound, those exercises create a relationship ''that is as close as any relationship the person has,'' said Art Aron, a social psychologist at Stony Brook University who developed the program with his wife, Elaine N. Aron. 
 The new relationship can last months or longer, and it almost immediately lowers a person's score on a variety of prejudice measures. Moreover, it significantly reduces anxiety during encounters with other members of that second group, as gauged by stress hormone levels in the saliva. 
 In a series of studies, Art Aron and others have found that, by generating a single cross-group friendship, they can quickly improve relations between cliques that have been pitted against one another in hostile competitions. In a continuing study of some 1,000 new students at Stony Brook, Dr. Aron has found that merely being in the same class where other interracial pairs were interacting can reduce levels of prejudice.
 The reason such changes emerge, some psychologists argue, is that people have a selfish urge to expand their own identities through others -- to make themselves a part of others' lives, and vice versa, as lovers, parents, colleagues, friends. Studies find that that is exactly what happens in a relationship: people are not merely aware of their closest friends' problems but to some extent feel the sting, the humiliation, the injustice.
 Psychologists can manipulate this need for self-expansion. In one recent experiment, led by Stephen Wright, a psychologist at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, researchers had 47 students describe their workloads and activities and made each student feel either overextended or in a rut, based on bogus personality tests. 
 ''It's easy enough to do, because students always feel both overwhelmed and in a rut,'' Dr. Wright said. Those led to feel in a rut, he went on, ''were more interested than the others in having a friendship with someone with a name that is clearly from a minority group.'' 
 This impulse pushes against any implicit or subconscious bias a person may have. When larger issues are in play, race can shrink quickly in importance. In the late 1960s, when the black politician Richard G. Hatcher was vying to become mayor of Gary, Ind., one neighborhood near the steel mills was running nearly 90 percent against him, said Thomas Pettigrew, a research professor in social psychology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who helped do the polling. It turned out that many people there were most concerned about a nearby city dump that cast a bad smell over the neighborhood. 
 After he was elected, Mayor Hatcher closed the dump, and the next election he got nearly 40 percent of the vote from the neighborhood.
 ''A lot of people living there cared a lot more about the dump than the color of their mayor,'' Dr. Pettigrew said. About Mr. Obama's election, he added, ''the economic crisis I think has had the same impact.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008



313 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Timothy F. Geithner

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration. 
 Name:Timothy F. Geithner 
 Being considered for: Treasury secretary
 Would bring to the job: As president of the New York Federal Reserve since 2003, Mr. Geithner has straddled Wall Street and Washington as a central player in trying to resolve the most significant financial crisis in more than 60 years. He would bring a deep understanding of Wall Street and a close working relationship with Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, his partner in the $700 million bailout, along with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Though not an economist, Mr. Geithner has a deep understanding of monetary and fiscal policy and broad experience in international trade issues. Before the current crisis, he was involved in the bailouts of Mexico, Indonesia, Korea, Brazil and Thailand. Although he served in the Clinton administration, he is not viewed as partisan and enjoys good relations with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress.
 Is linked to Obama by: Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, two former Clinton treasury secretaries who have been advising the Obama campaign. Mr. Geithner was an aide to both men. Paul Volcker, the former Fed chairman who is also advising Mr. Obama, was on the committee that selected Mr. Geithner for his current job. 
 In his own words:''Most consequential choices involve shades of gray, and some fog is often useful in getting things done.'' (The Wall Street Journal, Feb. 20, 2007)
 ''The fact that the banks are stronger and risk is spread more broadly should make the system more stable. We can't know that with certainty though. We'll have a test of that when things next threaten to fall apart.'' (The New York Times, Feb. 9, 2007)
 Used to work as: Director of the International Monetary Fund's policy development and review department. One of his first jobs was at Kissinger Associates, where he worked directly for Henry Kissinger, researching a book.
 Served as an assistant attache in the American embassy in Tokyo before being assigned as a special assistant to Mr. Summers when he was treasury under secretary. Ultimately Mr. Geithner became a treasury under secretary under Mr. Summers at the end of the Clinton administration.
 Carries as potential baggage: Mr. Geithner was involved in most of the fateful decisions of the last year, including the move to rescue Bear Stearns and American International Group and the decision to let Lehman Brothers collapse. Those decisions have both supporters and critics.
 Is otherwise known for: Picking up the favorite hobby of central bankers, fly-fishing, which he has done on the East Coast, Canada and at the annual meeting of the Federal Reserve in Jackson Hole, Wyo. He also plays tennis and surfs.
 Resume includes: Born Aug. 18, 1961, in New York ... raised in the United States, Asia and Africa ... his father worked in government as an international development official before working at the Ford Foundation ... graduate of Dartmouth College and Johns Hopkins, where he received a master's degree in international economics and East Asian studies ... joined the treasury department as a career staff official in 1988 ... married to a Dartmouth classmate; they have a son and a daughter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); SPORT FISHING (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2008



314 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING DEALS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: AT&T To Acquire Centennial For $944 Million

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
AT&T plans to buy the rural phone company Centennial Communications for $944 million in cash to expand its wireless network in Puerto Rico and other regions of the United States. The deal comes amid a wave of mergers in the rural telecom industry, which is struggling with slower wireless growth and declining home phone lines in a weak economy. Centennial has 1.1 million wireless subscribers, of which about 40 percent are in Puerto Rico. AT&T agreed to pay Centennial shareholders $8.50 a share, more than double the company's closing price of $3.84 on Friday. A year ago, Centennial was trading at about $10. 

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); MERGERS (88%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (84%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (97%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (97%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



315 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 419 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
IT'S A HIT: BACON
 And ... Chocolate?
 The crowd gathered around a booth at the Chocolate Show at Pier 94 on Friday was a bit incredulous: ''Chocolate-covered what?'' 
 Debbie Perina of Bellerose, Queens, popped a sample of ''pig candy'' into her mouth without looking closely. Her eyes bulged. ''Oh, yes!'' she cried. And she commanded her companion: ''Taste it!''
 ''I love bacon, and I love chocolate,'' she gushed. ''This is such a great combo.''
 It may never top peanut butter and chocolate, but this gustatory combo has its fans. And at some level, the study in contrasts worked: salty and sweet, crunchy and silky, breakfast and dessert.
 The creation was offered by Rhonda Kave, whose shop in the Essex Street Market, Roni-Sue's Chocolates, started selling it two months ago as part of her salty-and-sweet line.
 At $38 a pound, the treat has been among her biggest hits. One man comes in every week to buy half a pound for his daughter.
 This year the Chocolate Show -- which runs through Sunday, with $28 tickets covering the food offered inside -- expanded beyond its modest digs in Chelsea to Pier 94, at 12th Avenue and 55th Street. New Yorkers, relieved after a tense election and suffering economic heartburn, seemed content to indulge their anxieties with chocolate.
 And indulge they did: There was the ginger chocolate at Green and Black's, the peppercorn chocolate from Eclat and the chocolate figs from John and Kira's. Then there were chocolates shaped like sushi, stiletto shoes and fat happy Buddhas.
 But it was chocolate-covered bacon that was the talk of the festival. Ms. Perina refused Ms. Kave's offer of a second helping. She'd had enough.
 But before she left, she told Ms. Kave, ''Thanks for taking the chance.''
 JENNIFER 8. LEE COMMENTS
 OF THE DAY
 $4 Million to Rename Triborough for R.F.K.
 $4 million, when they are closing senior centers, cutting back library hours, etc. Just so tourists can tell taxi drivers to take the R.F.K. to J.F.K.? 
 -- Pat Rogers
 ''Four million is peanuts to honor a great American who served his country bravely. We spent $4 million in Iraq in the time it's taken me to type this.''
 -- Robert Hendrix
 ''If we're looking for something appropriate to rename for R.F.K., I propose endowing a scholarship fund for civil rights lawyers.'' 
 -- Hilary Hinds Kitasei
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 SLIDESHOW: Uptown, Downtown: A slide show on 200 years at the Abyssinian Baptist Church.
 Weekend Plans: With George Hirsch, chairman of the New York City Marathon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pig candy is a popular treat at Roni-Sue's Chocolates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); ENDOWMENTS (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



316 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: States Should Use Any Increased Aid for Infrastructure

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Oh, Washington? While You're Bailing ...'' (editorial, Nov. 1): 
 The federal government made a mistake and missed an opportunity to stimulate the economy when it injected taxpayer money into the nation's largest banks without first insisting that the money be used by the banks to make loans available to worthy individuals and small businesses. 
 In this respect, your editorial is right to suggest that increased federal aid to states be used not to plug budget holes, but on major infrastructure projects that would have the twin benefits of creating immediate jobs while paving the way for smart growth once the national economy rebounds.
 Washington should also insist that work begin within 90 to 120 days on all projects financed through any such stimulus package. This ''use it or lose it'' mandate is critical for many states, including New York, that have plenty of worthy projects on the drawing board that should not be held up by bureaucracy or needless delay. 
 Richard T. Anderson President New York Building Congress New York, Nov.
 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



317 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Rule Pares Outpatient Medicaid Services

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In the first of an expected avalanche of post-election regulations, the Bush administration on Friday narrowed the scope of services that can be provided to poor people under Medicaid's outpatient hospital benefit.
 Public hospitals and state officials immediately protested the action, saying it would reduce Medicaid payments to many hospitals at a time of growing need.
 The new rule conflicts with efforts by Congressional leaders and governors to increase federal aid to the states for Medicaid as part of a new economic action plan. 
 President-elect Barack Obama has endorsed those efforts. At a news conference on Friday, he said that legislation to stimulate the economy should include ''assistance to state and local governments'' so they would not have to lay off workers or increase taxes.
 In a notice published Friday in the Federal Register, the Bush administration said it had to clarify the definition of outpatient hospital services because the current ambiguity had allowed states to claim excessive payments.
 ''This rule represents a new initiative to preserve the fiscal integrity of the Medicaid program,'' the notice said.
 But John W. Bluford III, the president of Truman Medical Centers in Kansas City, Mo., said: ''This is a disaster for safety-net institutions like ours. The change in the outpatient rule will mean a $5 million hit to us. Medicaid accounts for about 55 percent of our business.''
 Alan D. Aviles, the president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, the largest municipal health care system in the country, said: ''The new rule forces us to consider reducing some outpatient services like dental and vision care. State and local government cannot pick up these costs. If anything, we expect to see additional cuts at the state level.''
 Carol H. Steckel, the commissioner of the Alabama Medicaid Agency, said the rule would reduce federal payments for outpatient services at two large children's hospitals, in Birmingham and Mobile.
 Richard J. Pollack, the executive vice president of the American Hospital Association, said these concerns were valid.
 ''The new regulation,'' Mr. Pollack said, ''will jeopardize important community-based services, including screening, diagnostic and dental services for children, as well as lab and ambulance services.''
 Herb B. Kuhn, the deputy administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, defended the rule.
 ''We are not trying to deny services,'' Mr. Kuhn said. ''We want to pay for them more accurately and appropriately. Payments for some services were way higher than they should be.''
 The rule narrows the definition of outpatient hospital services to exclude those that could be provided and covered outside a hospital.
 In May, the White House said it wanted to avoid the rush of ''midnight regulations'' that had occurred at the end of other administrations. But Bush administration officials said this week that they still intended to issue, or relax, many economic, environmental, health and safety rules before they leave office on Jan. 20.
 Medicaid, financed jointly by the federal government and the states, provides health insurance to more than 50 million low-income people. Services can often be billed at a higher rate if they are performed in the outpatient department of a hospital rather than in a doctor's office or a free-standing clinic. Hospitals generally have higher overhead costs.
 Matt D. Salo, a health policy specialist at the National Governors Association, said, ''The new rule is consistent with the administration's effort to squeeze, shrink and flatten Medicaid spending.''
 In a recent letter, the governors urged Congress to increase the federal share of Medicaid for at least two years. With state tax revenues plunging, many governors are considering cuts in Medicaid and other programs. Such cuts, they say, would further depress economic activity.
 Ann Clemency Kohler, the executive director of the National Association of State Medicaid Directors, said: ''The new rule is a pretty sweeping change from longtime Medicaid policy. Since the beginning of the program, states have been allowed to define hospital outpatient services. We have to question why the rule is being issued now, three days after the election, with a new administration coming in.''
 The rule was proposed in September 2007. It takes effect on Dec. 8, six weeks before Mr. Bush leaves office.
 Ms. Kohler said the rule would cut ''money going to the states, to safety net providers, at a time when states are really being stressed.''
 ''More and more people are coming onto Medicaid,'' she said. ''People are losing their jobs and running out of unemployment benefits. Some employers can no longer afford to provide health insurance to their workers.''
 In the last 18 months, Congress has imposed moratoriums on six other rules that would have cut Medicaid payments. But the administration says Congress did not block the rule issued on Friday.
 Larry S. Gage, the president of the National Association of Public Hospitals, said, ''We will urge Congress to extend the moratorium to this rule, and we will ask the Obama administration to withdraw it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); DENTISTRY (78%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (73%); TAX INCREASES (68%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HEALTH & HOSPITALS CORP (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (77%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



318 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sneezes, and Nearly Everyone Catches a Cold

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THIS was the fall that the orders stopped coming.
 In nearly every major economy, companies have reported a slowing in business, which seems to have begun at about the time that Lehman Brothers failed in mid-September. The credit crisis worsened drastically, and consumers and businesses grew far more cautious. 
 That reality can be seen in the accompanying charts, which trace indexes of new orders reported by manufacturers in eight countries or regions around the globe.
 Nearly all have fallen sharply this autumn. 
 In the indexes, a figure of 50 indicates that the flow of orders is neither rising nor falling, and the amount above or below that level shows how big the change is. 
 In the United States, the figure fell to 32.2 in October. It had been under 50 for a year, indicating a possible recession, but it was not until September that the plunge began.
 The October level is the lowest since early 1980, and it is also the first time since then that more than half the companies reported orders were falling, as opposed to rising or remaining about the same. 
 In 1980, the Federal Reserve and the administration of Jimmy Carter imposed credit controls in an effort to slow inflation. This year the credit controls were imposed by a troubled banking system, which has been slow to respond to the Fed's efforts to ease credit.
 The new-orders indexes are one of the components of the factory index maintained by the Institute of Supply Management in the United States and by other organizations around the globe. The overall indexes have also fallen, but new orders are most sensitive to rapid changes in the economy. Employment indexes are also trending lower.
 When the United States economy began to slow in 2007, there was much talk of decoupling from the American giant. It was hoped that the rest of the world could continue growing, if perhaps not quite as rapidly, during an American recession. That hope now appears to have been a false one.
 The sharp falls in new orders show that the financial crisis is having an impact everywhere, and it appears there are recessions in Japan and most of Europe, including Britain.
 There is still optimism in the rapidly growing parts of Asia, particularly China and India, that they can continue growing at a strong pace. But China's new orders have now turned down, and the growth rate in India is clearly slowing. It may turn out that export-oriented economies are not insulated from a crisis affecting so many of their customers.
 In any case, it is notable that readings below 40 -- a rarely occurring indication of a sharp decline in orders -- are now being seen in the new-orders indexes for the euro zone, Britain, Australia and Japan. Retail sales are down in most of those areas as well.
 To halt the slide, central banks are scrambling to cut interest rates. But it is not clear how rapidly that medicine can have an effect when the financial system is still weak and worried about the value of the assets it built up during the credit boom that ended last year.

GRAPHIC: CHART: New Orders Fall, Almost Everywhere: Surveys of new orders for manufacturers. Above 50 indicates orders are growing, below 50 indicates orders are falling.(Sources: Bloomberg
 Haver Analytics) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); RECESSION (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



319 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Racial Imbalance Persists at Elite Schools

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Recent efforts to get more black and Hispanic students into New York City's elite public high schools have fallen short, with proportionately fewer of them taking the admissions exam and even lower percentages passing it. The performance gap persists even among students involved in the city's intensive 16-month test prep institute, designed to diversify the so-called specialized high schools, including the storied triumvirate of Stuyvesant, Bronx Science and Brooklyn Tech.
 Among the 21,490 public school students who last year took the exam, the single gateway to eight high schools, 6 percent of blacks and 7 percent of Hispanics were offered admission, compared with 35 percent of Asians and 31 percent of white students. The disparities were the worst at Stuyvesant, where 2 percent of blacks, 3 percent of Hispanics, 24 percent of whites and 72 percent of Asians were accepted. (Over all, 1 in 5 test-takers is offered a spot; racial data is not available on private school students.) 
 Parents of black and Hispanic students have long complained about the lack of diversity in the elite schools' enrollment, and the Department of Education promised two years ago to study whether the demographic lopsidedness was the result of certain groups' doing poorly on the grueling two-and-a-half-hour test, not taking the exam in high numbers, or simply choosing not to attend the schools. The city abandoned that effort, but an analysis by The New York Times shows that not only do blacks and Hispanics lag behind whites and Asians in succeeding on the exam, they are far less likely to take it.
 Perhaps most surprising is a close look at the students enrolled in the city's Specialized High Schools Institute, created 14 years ago to prepare students for high school and recently expanded by Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein. Black and Hispanic students who attend the institute are more likely to succeed on the test. While 90 percent of Asians and 85 percent of white students at the institute take the test, 65 percent of blacks and 70 percent of Hispanics do; last year, of the institute graduates taking the test, 58 percent of the Asians, 49 percent of whites, 21 percent of Hispanics and 19 percent of blacks were offered admission.
 Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott said the data showed there was work to be done both to get black and Hispanic students to take the test and to help them pass it.
 ''I'm not ever happy when I see a low percentage of those students participating in schools that are high rigor,'' he said. ''It's important for the halls of Stuyvesant, the halls of the Bronx High School of Science, to be reflective of the city itself.''
 Instead, the schools that make up the upper crust of the public education universe belie the system they are part of and the city where they reside, and the disparity between the races has grown even more pronounced over the past decade. 
 In this city of 1.1 million public school students, about 40 percent are Hispanic, 32 percent are black, 14 percent are Asian and 14 percent white. More than two-thirds of Stuyvesant High School's 3,247 students are Asian (up from 48 percent in 1999). At Brooklyn Technical High School, 365 of the 4,669 students, or 8 percent, are Hispanic; at the Bronx High School of Science, there are 114 blacks, 4 percent of the 2,809-student body. 
 The other schools in the elite group, considered a second tier, are more diverse: Brooklyn Latin School, for example, which became a specialized high school in 2007, is 23 percent Hispanic and 32 percent black (though it has 183 students, a fraction of the top three). 
 The portrait of test-takers from public schools is closer to the overall enrollment, but hardly a mirror: 28 percent of last year's were black, 23 percent Hispanic, 30 percent Asian and 19 percent white.
 Marcia V. Lyles, deputy chancellor for teaching and learning, acknowledged that racial diversity at the schools ''is not where we would want it to be.''
 Elizabeth Sciabarra, who oversees student enrollment planning, said the city had increased its efforts to inform families about the test, with the hope that interested students of all backgrounds might start preparing earlier. But, she noted: ''It is a choice. There are kids who might be wonderful candidates for this who will just not sit for the test. That transcends ethnicity; that's across the board.''
 The test-prep institute, which includes a full-time five-week summer session and twice-a-week workshops during the school year, was a core part of the city's strategy to diversify the ranks of the elite schools. But the intensive program has been hampered by a Supreme Court decision last year that ordered districts to remain race-neutral in efforts to diversify schools. Now the program gives preference to students based only on family income, not race.
 And enrollment in the institute has fallen to 2,800 students at 10 sites this year, from 3,800 students at 17 sites in 2006. Education officials said that they reduced the number of sites to standardize the curriculum and that despite the drop in enrollment, more students were currently receiving the full test-prep regimen.
 The test itself, consisting of 45 verbal questions and 50 math questions, measuring students' ability, for instance, to put sentences in order and discern geometrical angles, has also become a subject of criticism. 
 Joshua N. Feinman, an economist who graduated from Stuyvesant and is the parent of a Bronx Science junior, recently released a study challenging the validity of the test, saying it had not undergone normal predictive bias studies to see if it was skewed toward any gender or racial groups. The study revives complaints from the 1960s, when civil rights groups charged that the tests were unfair to black and Puerto Rican children and should not be the only criterion determining access to the schools.
 Department of Education officials said they were confident that the test, which is manufactured by Pearson and has been used since the 1970s, was reliable.
 On a recent Saturday morning, as hundreds of anxious students lined up for the test outside the stately stone-gray facade of Brooklyn Tech, parents and students attributed the racial disparities to a lack of private tutoring, subpar middle schools that do not expose students to test material, transportation problems, cultural differences and a simple lack of motivation on the part of some students.
 Tiffany Gomillion, a single parent, said families like hers were at a disadvantage. Her 15-year-old son, Dalon, attends Our Lady of Miracles, a Catholic school in Canarsie, Brooklyn, but is hoping to go to a specialized school.
 ''He didn't really get the preparation that he needed because it was so expensive,'' said Ms. Gomillion, a nurse. ''Even at home, a lot of times children's parents are working, so they don't really have somebody there to supervise to make sure they are doing the work and they are studying.''
 Dalon, who is black, began studying for the test days before it was given. He was the last to arrive at Brooklyn Tech, a few minutes before its scheduled start, because he and his mother had trouble finding the school, which is near Fort Greene Park.
 Terrence Busby Jr., 13, who is also black, said many of his friends did not take the test because they did not know how to get to the school or have a parent available to take them. ''They can't get there or they don't feel like they're smart enough,'' he said, suggesting that the city make the test mandatory for all eighth graders.
 Ashley Wright, a black 13-year-old who has her eyes on Brooklyn Tech and Stuyvesant, said many of her black and Hispanic friends were simply notmotivated to do well on the test. ''I see a lot of people who have an opportunity at a good life, but they mess it up,'' she said, her legs shaking in anticipation of the exam.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students leaving Brooklyn Tech last month after taking the morning admissions exam for the eight specialized high schools, considered the city's best.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Parents waiting at Brooklyn Tech for their children taking the exam for the best high schools.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



320 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Bold Impresario and City Opera Part Ways Before Anybody Sings

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
In February 2007 New York City Opera staked its future on the vision of Gerard Mortier, a European impresario known for provocative productions and a penchant for shaking things up. On Friday the company and Mr. Mortier said they were parting ways.
 In City Opera's bold venture, Mr. Mortier was to take on the jobs of general manager and artistic director in the 2009-10 season. It agreed to his plans to scrap old-fashioned traditions, mount challenging 20th-century works, bring opera to the people in their neighborhoods and extensively renovate the company's home, the New York State Theater, rather than try to find a new building. 
 Now the company, already troubled by a recent string of bad news like layoffs and furloughs, said it would abandon his programming for next season, although the renovation would continue. 
 Susan L. Baker, City Opera's chairwoman, who began wooing Mr. Mortier after being seated next to him at a dinner at the French consulate, said she and the board were ''enormously discouraged and disappointed'' but harbored no ill feelings about Mr. Mortier's departure at such a crucial and delicate moment in the company's history. 
 She said she did not feel let down and continued to admire Mr. Mortier. 
 ''If you're looking for me to go scorched earth on you, I'm just not going to do it,'' she said. 
 Speaking by telephone from his apartment in Ghent, Belgium, Mr. Mortier said he decided to resign when it became clear that the board would not give him the money needed to produce a meaningful slate of opera productions. He said that from the start he had been promised a budget of $60 million, a number even mentioned in his contract. But the board was prepared to approve only $36 million, he said, not much more than the basic fixed costs of running the company, leaving him little room for innovative productions.
 ''I told them with the best will, I can't do that,'' Mr. Mortier said. ''I cannot go to run a company that has less than the smallest company in France.'' Mr. Mortier is in the final year of running the Paris National Opera, which has a budget closer to $300 million. ''You don't need me for that,'' he said. 
 Previous City Opera budgets had been around $42 million, not including overspending that had created $15 million in deficits.
 Mr. Mortier's departure, ending months of rumors and speculation, also deflates the prospect of a Lincoln Center cross-plaza rivalry with the Metropolitan Opera, which under its general manager, Peter Gelb, has already embarked on an adventuresome course. 
 Ms. Baker attributed the skin-and-bones budget to the economic crisis that has taken a toll on arts organizations around the country, especially with respect to donations.
 ''The irony of all this, I really believe, and many others do as well, is if we could simply have gotten the first season on the boards, it really would have galvanized fund-raising,'' Ms. Baker said.
 Mr. Mortier agreed. But he said he had suggested running a deficit on purpose and borrowing money to put on a first season and show potential new donors what City Opera could do. But the board ''got in a panic'' over the financial crisis and refused, he said. Meanwhile, he added, the board had not raised much new money and lacked prominent donors who would give tens of millions of dollars at once.
 ''The only new money came from me,'' he said, referring to about $6 million in promises from foundations. Among his moves at City Opera, Mr. Mortier commissioned two of America's pre-eminent composers, Philip Glass and Charles Wuorinen, to write operas for it. Mr. Glass's subject was the life of Walt Disney, and Mr. Wuorinen's a version of ''Brokeback Mountain.'' Mr. Mortier said he would try to find other houses to take on the commissions.
 For months hints of trouble have been emerging, although a spokesman consistently denied them; in September he said Mr. Mortier was solidly committed to the company. 
 A major sign of problems came in August when Mr. Mortier announced a last-minute bid to become a co-director of the Bayreuth Festival in Germany. He later said his application had been motivated partly by a desire to send a ''signal'' to City Opera trustees who were lukewarm in their support. Board members were caught by surprise. He did not get the Bayreuth job.
 More recently, City Opera announced layoffs and furloughs because of a cash problem. Before stepping away from the general manager's job, Mr. Mortier eliminated the position of executive director. Ms. Baker said it would be restored. City Opera said Mr. Mortier had been running the house from Paris, and had spent one week a month in New York.
 Ms. Baker said City Opera's old model -- offering more than 100 performances, a mix of staples like ''La Boheme'' and more adventurous operas -- was ''financially broken.'' The company was founded as a showcase of American singing, a place to hear opera at lower cost and with less formality.
 ''There was loss year after loss year,'' she said.
 The temporarily homeless company's truncated program for this season, consisting mainly of two performances of a concert version of Barber's ''Antony and Cleopatra'' at Carnegie Hall and a handful of orchestra concerts focusing on the composers Mr. Mortier had programmed for next year, will go forward. But the company said it had no clear plan beyond that. The board was scrambling to find a replacement for Mr. Mortier and devise a program. 
 Mr. Mortier, a Belgian and former director of the Salzburg Festival in Austria, came in with guns blazing. He was known for scandalous productions that infuriated well-heeled traditionalists, like a Salzburg ''Fledermaus'' featuring cocaine, sex and political attacks on the Austrian far right.
 His lineup at City Opera was to have included Messiaen's ''St. Francois d'Assise,'' Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress,'' Glass's ''Einstein on the Beach,'' Janacek's ''Makropulos Case,'' Britten's ''Death in Venice'' and Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande.'' He planned to move the company toward a stagione season, in which productions follow one another rather than overlapping.
 Mr. Mortier said he was saddened and frustrated to see two years of work thrown away. ''I never worked so hard,'' he said. He will look for a new position, he added, but with his 65th birthday coming up on Nov. 25, ''maybe nobody wants me anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gerard Mortier
 Susan L. Baker, the chairwoman of New York City Opera, pursued Mr. Mortier for its top job after sitting with him at a dinner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MAYNARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (89%); BUDGETS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



321 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Automaker Says U.S. Cash Is Best Hope

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The rapidly deteriorating finances of General Motors are forcing the federal government to decide whether to bail out the largest American automaker or face the prospect that it might go bankrupt.
 G.M. said Friday that its cash cushion had been dwindling by more than $2 billion a month recently and that it could run short of money by mid-2009 unless it got emergency federal assistance. 
 It also said it had suspended merger talks with Chrysler to focus on its own increasingly urgent problems, brought on by higher gas prices, a weakening economy and tight credit -- a combination afflicting the entire auto industry, but hurting G.M. the most.
 The government faces a difficult choice. If it provides G.M. with a bailout, there is no guarantee the company will not need more money later to stay out of bankruptcy, particularly with the economy weakening. 
 But a bankruptcy by G.M. or any other automaker would have far-reaching consequences, given the millions of people employed by supplier companies, dealers and other small businesses that are dependent on the industry.
 A bankruptcy filing by G.M. would also probably scare off many consumers, hurting any chances for a revival. ''You can't sell cars to people under those circumstances,'' said Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, in an interview on CNBC Friday.
 President-elect Barack Obama signaled his intentions Friday to help the auto industry, calling it ''the backbone of American manufacturing'' during his news conference.
 ''I have made it a high priority for my transition team to work on additional policy options to help the auto industry adjust, weather the financial crisis and succeed in producing fuel-efficient cars here in the United States of America,'' he said.
 Congress has already provided $25 billion in low-interest loans to help car companies build more fuel-efficient vehicles. But the Bush administration, thus far, has balked at providing any additional financing. 
 The chief executives of G.M., Ford and Chrysler have been lobbying hard in Washington for more help. They met Thursday with the House Democratic leadership to plead their case for at least $25 billion in additional loans to carry the industry through its worst sales downturn in 15 years.
 Congressional leaders expressed some support for the beleaguered Detroit automakers, without making specific promises. 
 But the release of worse-than-expected earnings reports by G.M. and Ford may add pressure to act sooner.
 G.M. said it lost $4.2 billion during the quarter, excluding special charges, and its cash hoard shrank by $6.9 billion during the three-month period, leaving it perilously close to the minimum levels needed to finance its operations.
 ''In the last 30 to 60 days, things have worsened considerably,'' Mr. Wagoner said.
 While Ford is not running out of cash as fast as G.M., the company said that its automotive operations lost $2.9 billion in the third quarter. Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the industry needed help soon from the government.
 ''I think it's important to address it as soon as possible,'' Mr. Mulally said in an interview.
 Despite shedding more than 100,000 jobs since 2006 and closing factories nationwide, the Detroit automakers cannot cut their costs fast enough to keep up with the steadily declining market for new cars and trucks.
 Industry sales in the United States have fallen 14.6 percent this year, including a dismal 31.9 percent drop in October.
 Sales began declining in the spring because of rising gas prices, but have since gotten worse. The sales rate in October was the lowest recorded in 25 years. Analysts predict the market will remain weak into 2009.
 While Mr. Wagoner said that G.M. had not considered bankruptcy protection as an option, the company's increasingly dire cash position and plunging sales could force its hand. G.M. had the worst October of any automaker, posting a 45.1 percent drop.
 ''Clearly you can't rule out bankruptcy,'' said Erich Merkle, an analyst with the accounting and consulting firm Crowe Horwath. ''In fact, it's highly likely if there isn't some sort of government action.''
 G.M. said Friday that its revenue fell 13 percent in the third quarter, to $37.9 billion, and it ended the period with $16.2 billion in cash reserves. The company said it needed $11 billion to $14 billion at any given time to pay its bills and run its global operations.
 In July, G.M. announced plans to cut $10 billion in costs and raise $5 billion through the sale of assets, like its Hummer brand, and new borrowing. On Friday, the company said it would cut another $5 billion, including slowing production at 10 factories and cutting capital spending next year by $2.5 billion -- a move that will delay the introductions of several new vehicles.
 ''We're cutting to the bone,'' said Frederick A. Henderson, G.M.'s president. ''But given the situation, we think that's appropriate.''
 Without immediate government assistance, G.M. said its cash position ''will fall significantly short'' of what it needs during the first six months of next year.
 G.M.'s mounting problems prompted the company to cut off merger discussions it had been having since September with Chrysler, its smaller Detroit rival.
 While he did not identify Chrysler by name because of the private nature of the talks, Mr. Wagoner said G.M. could not afford to pursue a deal that took focus away from its own critical condition. ''We've set aside consideration of such a transaction as a near-term priority,'' he said.
 Chrysler's majority owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, declined to comment on the suspension of merger talks with G.M. ''We remain focused on working to return Chrysler to profitability in this challenging environment,'' Cerberus said in a statement.
 The situation at Ford, the second-biggest American automaker, is not as dire as at G.M.
 Ford is also using up cash at a surprising rate -- $7.7 billion in the third quarter. But Ford executives said much of the cash was spent on one-time actions related to promoting the company's new F-150 pickup truck.
 The automaker, based in the Detroit suburb Dearborn, said it ended the quarter with $18.9 billion in cash, and had another $10.7 billion available on its credit lines.
 Mr. Mulally declined to identify Ford's minimum cash level. The automaker is moving to increase its cash by as much as $17 billion by cutting more jobs, eliminating bonuses for salaried workers in 2009 and reducing its capital expenditures.
 ''Ford has the ability to weather the storm a bit longer than G.M.,'' Mr. Merkle said. ''But if G.M. has to file bankruptcy that really puts the supply base in jeopardy, and it's an industrywide problem at that point.''
 About three million American jobs are directly tied to the Detroit automakers, said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 A federal bailout, Mr. Cole said, is essential to prevent the rippling economic impact of a failure of one or more of the Detroit companies.
 ''The bottom line here is that on a cash basis, the cost of keeping these guys going is less than the cost of a collapse,'' Mr. Cole said.
 The breadth of the industry's influence on the economy was a key point made by the Detroit executives, along with Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Automobile Workers union, during their meeting Thursday with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.
 The automakers hope their latest request will be taken up by Congress during its upcoming lame-duck session starting Nov. 17.
 Speaker Pelosi said in a statement Friday that House Democrats ''will continue our dialogue with America's automakers and the United Auto Workers.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a General Motors plant in Warren, Mich., just outside Detroit. The company is expected to trim its work force.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A20) CHART: More Losses In Detroit: Ford and G.M. both posted a loss for the third quarter of this year.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details bar graph)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MERGERS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



322 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: NOVEMBER 8, 2008

 BODY:
International
 THOUSANDS DEMONSTRATE
 Against Georgian President
 Protesters flooded the streets of Tblisi, the capital of Georgia, in an attempt to weaken the government of President Mikheil Saakashvili. The protest, while mainly peaceful, comes at a time when Mr. Saakashvili's administration struggles to maintain power after economic and political unease that has been building at home, as well as a destructive war with Russia in August. Despite these troubles, he remains popular and appears to be in control. Page A11 
 GEORGIANS MEET RUSSIAN OFFICIAL
 Russia and Georgia met in the first official contact between the countries since war broke out in South Ossetia. A delegation from the Georgian Orthodox Church met with the deputy foreign minister of Russia in what one described as frank and critical talks. The meeting was lent special significance because the Orthodox churches have become the main channel of communication between the two countries. Page A11 
 BLINDED SOLO PILOT LANDS SAFELY
 Not that there's ever a good time to have a stroke, but being 15,000 feet in the air on a solo flight has to be the worst. The stroke left a 65-year old private pilot, Jim O'Neil, almost entirely blind while flying his Cessna aircraft from Prestwick, Scotland, to Colchester, England one week ago. A Royal Air Force training plane was quickly scrambled and its pilot was able to talk Mr. O'Neil down for a safe landing, R.A.F. officials said. Page A12 
 BRITISH PREMIER WINS BY-ELECTION
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain has bounced back from what headlines predicted as imminent political demise. His victory is forcing political commentators to revise their forecasts on the Labor Party's chances in the next general election. Page A12 
 MEXICO'S FAMOUS DRUG LAWYER
 There have been four attempts on the life of Silvia Raquenel Villanueva and countless death threats. She has been shot and had explosives thrown at her, and each time she managed to recover. Ms. Villanueva is the most prominent ''narco abogado,'' or drug lawyer in Mexico. She has only recently become more careful about who her clients are and what cartel they come from. She believes God is with her. Her proof? Her continued survival. But she still employs a troop of bodyguards. Page A12 
 BUILDING COLLAPSE IN HAITI KILLS 30
 Thirty people in a school in Petionville, Haiti, were killed and many more were injured when the building collapsed. The school houses as many as 500 students on a daily basis and the death toll is likely to climb, said a civil protection official. Shoddy construction is thought to be the cause, as the building also collapsed eight years ago. Page A10 
 NATIONAL
 A COMPLEX CONFLICT
 For Oklahoma Democrats
 Perhaps nowhere else is the complex conflict between Southern rural Democrats and the national Democratic Party more starkly evident than in Oklahoma. State voters gave Senator John McCain an almost 2-to-1 victory, and Republicans gained a majority in both houses of the legislature for the first time ever, hung on to a United States Senate seat and solidly whipped challengers for four Congressional seats. All this in a state where Democrats supposedly outnumber them. PAGE A13
 OIL LEASES EXPANDING TO PARKS
 The Bureau of Land Management has expanded its oil and gas lease program in eastern Utah to include tens of thousands of acres on or near the boundaries of three national parks. National Park Service officials say that the decision to open nearby lands was made without the kind of consultation that had previously been routine, and environmental groups are angry. PAGE A12
 CONVICTION IN COURTHOUSE KILLINGS
 A jury found Brian G. Nichols guilty of murdering four people in 2005 in a spree of violence that began in an Atlanta courthouse. Mr. Nichols's defense team did not contest the basic facts, but argued that he was not guilty by reason of insanity. The jury deliberated for 12 hours before rejecting that claim. Jurors will return on Monday to consider whether to sentence Mr. Nichols to the death penalty or life in prison. PAGE A15
 NEW LIMITS ON MEDICAID SERVICES
 The Bush administration narrowed the scope of services that can be provided to poor people under Medicaid's outpatient hospital benefit, the first of an expected avalanche of post-election regulations. Public hospitals and state officials immediately protested the action, saying it would reduce Medicaid payments to many hospitals at a time of growing need. The new rule conflicts with efforts by Congressional leaders and governors, endorsed by President-elect Barack Obama, to increase federal aid to the states for Medicaid as part of a new economic action plan. PAGE A13
 OBITUARIES
 G. LARRY JAMES, 61
 A former champion runner, he won gold and silver medals in the racially charged 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. Nicknamed ''the Mighty Burner,'' James was an explosive runner, but deceptively so. Slender and carrying only 155 pounds on his 6-foot frame, he ran with a floating, almost feathery stride. PAGE A22
 BUSINESS
 IGNORING JOBS AND AUTO FIGURES,
 Investors Push Market Up
 General Motors and the Ford Motor Company announced bleak third-quarter earnings. The Labor Department reported that the economy lost 240,000 jobs in October. Investors shrugged off the news, though, and Wall Street bounced back after two days of losses. The Dow industrials closed up 248.02 points. That still left shares about 4 percent lower for the week. PAGE B5
 CHAINS LOOK TO BUILD GREEN
 Gardens on the roof, baseboards made of plastic left over from diaper manufacturing, power-producing wind turbines: a race is under way among stores and fast-food restaurants to build environmentally friendly outlets. One reason is to curry favor with consumers who have become fascinated by hybrid cars and energy-saving light bulbs. Another is to save money. PAGE B1
 FLAGS RAISED ON HIP PROCEDURE
 An increasingly popular alternative to traditional hip replacement surgery has a higher rate of failure for women than men, medical researchers here and abroad are warning. Makers of artificial joints and some American doctors have promoted the technique, known as hip resurfacing, since it became available in the United States in 2006. PAGE B1
 BANKS WITH MONEY TO LEND
 Much news from the banking world is not good these days. But amid the turmoil involving the major players, most of the country's smallest banks are doing well, in large part because they did not get into subprime loans, said a spokeswoman for a trade group that represents small banks. It seems that knowing the territory -- and the customers -- can be a definite help. PAGE B4
 PANASONIC AND SANYO SEEK MERGER
 Two Japanese consumer electronics companies, Panasonic and Sanyo, said they were pursuing a merger, which would bring together two well-known brands with combined annual sales of more than $111.5 billion. The two said they would discuss making the much-smaller Sanyo, which has been struggling for years, a subsidiary of Panasonic. The companies hoped to complete a deal by the end of the year. PAGE B2
 TELLING THE CHILDREN ABOUT A LAYOFF
 Not telling children that a parent has been or may be laid off is not a good idea because they will sense the tension and can think that somehow it is their fault, psychologists say. And if children feel that they are being kept in the dark, a certain element of trust is lost. PAGE B5
 Health Care Stocks May Shine B5 
 NEW YORK
 OLD-WORLD TECHNIQUES
 For New-World Instruments
 He has the advantage of power drills, computers and electric lights. But otherwise the tools and materials Guy Rabut uses to make his violins, violas and cellos are pretty much the same as those employed by Antonio Stradivari three centuries ago, right down to the same Italian Alpine spruce. Mr. Rabut's prices are a lot more affordable, though. PAGE A23 
 TRANSIT UNION PROMISES NO STRIKE
 In a court affidavit seeking to have a penalty lifted that was imposed after an illegal strike by the transit workers' union in 2005, the president of the union pledged that it has no intention of going on strike again ''now or in the future.'' The city, which strongly opposed an attempt last year by the union to have the penalty lifted, will not seek to block the union's motion this time, officials said. PAGE A25 
 SPORTS
 A REMARKABLE COMEBACK
 From a Mystery Ailment
 When the man in the nearby hospital bed died back in 2004, George Smith, then a redshirt freshman wide receiver for Vanderbilt, started preparing himself mentally for his own time. He was paralyzed from the neck down, and the doctors couldn't give him any answers. ''I just thought, maybe this is it,'' he recalls. It wasn't. PAGE D3
 AN EXTRAORDINARY JOE
 Of the Jets defensive unit once known as the Sack Exchange, Mark Gastineau, who popularized the sack dance after leveling a quarterback, created the most headlines and highlights. But he was not considered the complete player that Joe Klecko was, Dave Anderson writes, arguing that it is time for Klecko to get a bust at the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Sports of The Times. PAGE D2 
 ATHLETES WITH STORIES THAT STIR
 NBC's documentary about the Paralympics in Beijing, to be broadcast Sunday, is a continuous ''Oh my'' journey with amputee sprinters and swimmers, wheelchair basketball players and racers, a paralyzed shot-putter, a sailor with Lou Gehrig's disease, and Marin Morrison, a swimmer devastated by a brain tumor, Richard Sandomir writes. Be ready to weep. PAGE D5
 PERSONA NON GRATA
 Nick Saban was the toast of L.S.U. fans when he led the Tigers to the national championship in 2003. But then he bolted, first for the N.F.L., then back to the college ranks. And when he takes his No. 1-ranked Alabama team into Baton Rouge on Saturday, Tiger fans will not be all teary-eyed with warm sentimentality. PAGE D3
 ARTS
 ANTHOLOGY OF HIP-HOP
 Is a Modest Hit for Children
 When Rona Brinlee, a bookseller in Atlantic Beach, Fla., first heard about ''Hip Hop Speaks to Children,'' an illustrated anthology of poems and song lyrics, she worried that prospective buyers might shy away. But the book, which features lyrics by Mos Def, Kanye West and Queen Latifah as well as poems by Maya Angelou and Gwendolyn Brooks, has become a modest hit. PAGE C1
 A CRITIC'S INSPIRATION
 To write as the cultural critic John Leonard, who died Wednesday, did is out of the question, A. O. Scott says, though the temptation to try does arise. Besides, the real point, he goes on, was to read like him. ''Not to match the quantity of his reading, necessarily -- again, honestly, who could? -- but to approach something like the quality of attention he brought to everything, the combination of open-mindedness and skepticism, the willingness to be enthralled and enraged, inflamed and entertained.'' PAGE C1
 BETTER OFF THAN MARCIA?
 What is TV's Carol Brady, otherwise known as Florence Henderson, up to of late? Singing cabaret in ''All the Lives of Me ... A Musical Journey,'' at Feinstein's at Loews Regency, in a voice, Stephen Holden writes, not quite so well preserved as her 74-year-old face. PAGE C3
 Two Bands Offer Two Ways to Go C1
 Viewing Robert Frank C3
 Weekend
 BOOK REVIEW
 Peter Ackroyd's ''Thames'' tells the story of the river that cuts through the heart of London, and teeters between morbid factoids -- where the desperate may best jump off a bridge, for example -- and lyrical evocations of the underworld. Miranda Seymour says that concluding chapters of the book ''are extraordinary, perhaps the finest he has written in a prolific career.''
 PAGE 14
 MAGAZINE
 Many low-income Americans were wary of banks even before the latest round of failures and takeovers. Is a semi-reformed payday lender the right guy to bring the urban poor into the banking system? Page 36
 SUNDAY STYLES
 One way to gauge the health of the American economy is to consult the Lipstick Index, a financial barometer that holds that cosmetics sales rise in direct relation to an economic downturn. (In case you were wondering, makeup sales are up 40 percent over the last few months.) So which shades are in during these lean times? Ellen Tien, Pulse. PAGE 3
 Editorial
 MONEY REALLY IS FUNGIBLE
 Just weeks after the Treasury Department gave nine of the nation's top banks $125 billion in taxpayer dollars to save them from unprecedented calamity, bank executives are salting money away in billionaire bonus pools to reward themselves for their performances. Page A26 
 OLD THINK ON A NEW DAY
 It didn't take long for Russia to lay down a cold-war-tinged challenge for President-elect Obama. Page A26 
 IT'S NOT EASY BEING GREEN
 When Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced his grand plan to make New York City ''the first environmentally sustainable 21st-century city,'' he offered a banquet of 127 excellent ideas. He has since learned that greening the apple is not automatic. Page A26 
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Voters elbowed their way past incompetence and divisiveness to place a bet on the promise of America. We shouldn't lose sight of this stunning moment in the nation's history. Page A27 
 GAIL COLLINS
 I am sorry to say, amid the postelection revelry, there have been some instances of gloating winners and sore losers, going even beyond the moment when Barney the White House dog bit a Reuters reporter. Page 27 
 ARAB BLOGGERS ON OBAMA
 Excerpts from a dozen Middle Eastern blog posts reflect the region's hopes for -- and doubts about -- the president-elect. Page 27 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BYELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR FORCES (76%); RELIGION (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); MILITARY TRAINING (65%); SHOOTINGS (62%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (90%); GORDON BROWN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) GEORGIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); HAITI (92%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



323 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Studs Terkel's Legacy: A Vivid Window on the Great Depression

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
After the great crash of 1929, the Wells-Grand Hotel in Chicago began losing guests. The ones who remained had more time for idle pastimes. ''The decks of cards were wearing out more quickly'' and ''the black and red squares of the checkerboard were becoming indistinguishable.''
 Those are the recollections of Studs Terkel, from his classic oral history of the Great Depression, ''Hard Times.'' I found myself re-reading the book this week because of the confluence of two unhappy events: the economic downturn and the death of Mr. Terkel on Oct. 31. He was 96. 
 I knew Mr. Terkel a bit -- enough to appreciate his gentle nature, his deep interest in people of all sorts and his drive to reform the world. As I turned the pages of ''Hard Times,'' I was struck by the remarkable fit between historian and subject.
 In Mr. Terkel's wide-ranging interviews, the horrors of the Depression come through vividly. A manual laborer on the San Francisco waterfront recalled that when a sugar refinery offered four jobs to a crowd massed at the gates, ''a thousand men would fight like a pack of Alaskan dogs'' over them. 
 Dorothy Day, the Catholic social activist, told Mr. Terkel that in 1933 and 1934, ''there were so many evictions on the East Side, you couldn't walk down the streets without seeing furniture on the sidewalk.'' An African-American hobo, Louis Banks, said that when he rode on top of boxcars, there was a railroad policeman who wouldn't ask him to get off the train; he would just shoot. 
 Rich people also suffered in the Depression, and though they generally had more resources to fall back on, Mr. Terkel documented their woes with the same care he devoted to the hardest hit. Diana Morgan, a young woman from a wealthy Southern family, spoke of returning home from college and finding no cook or cleaning woman. The telephone had been disconnected. ''And this was when I realized that the world was falling apart,'' Ms. Morgan said.
 Mr. Terkel noted the heavy psychological toll the Depression took on Americans. ''The suddenly idle hands blamed themselves, rather than society,'' he recalled. ''No matter that others suffered the same fate, the inner voice whispered, 'I'm a failure.' '' 
 Radicalism swept the land, several of Mr. Terkel's interview subjects recalled. ''People were talkin' revolution all over the place,'' Joe Morrison, a steel worker, said. ''You met guys ridin' the freight trains and so forth, talkin' about what they'd like to do with a machine gun.'' In the Farm Belt, farmers frequently resorted to violence, including the near-lynching of an Iowa judge considered too willing to grant foreclosures.
 Mr. Terkel, who worked for the Work Progress Administration's Federal Writers' Project, was highly sympathetic to the New Deal. The book contains a whole section of New Dealers reminiscing, including the economist Joe Marcus, who recalled the satisfaction of being part of Roosevelt's crusade. ''Laws could be changed,'' Mr. Marcus said. ''So could the conditions of people.''
 Jane Yoder of Evanston, Ill., told Mr. Terkel how miraculous it was when her father, an unemployed blacksmith, found a W.P.A. job. ''This was a godsend,'' she said. ''It meant food, you know. Survival, just survival.''
 ''Hard Times'' does not romanticize the Depression, but at least a few of Mr. Terkel's subjects managed to find silver linings. E.Y. Harburg was a young businessman whose company went bust after the crash. His friend Ira Gershwin told him to get a pencil and a rhyming dictionary and get to work. ''When I lost my possessions, I found my creativity,'' Mr. Harburg said. ''I felt I was being born for the first time.'' 
 He later wrote ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?,'' the Depression victim's anthem, and the lyrics to songs in ''The Wizard of Oz.''
 ''Hard Times'' ends with an interview with Virginia Durr, a grand old Alabama woman I knew years ago when I lived in the state. Mrs. Durr, who fought the poll tax and bailed out Rosa Parks when she was arrested before the Montgomery Bus Boycott, was raised in genteel, sheltered circumstances. The Depression transported her.
 ''It was the first time I had seen the other side of the tracks,'' Mrs. Durr told her good friend Mr. Terkel. ''The rickets, the pellagra -- it shook me up. I saw the world as it really was.''
 She seems to have been speaking for Mr. Terkel, who also came of age in the 1930s. His lifelong empathy for the disenfranchised was rooted in the troubled era recalled so vividly in ''Hard Times.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRAINS (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); HISTORY (76%); WOMEN (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



324 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Money Really Is Fungible

 BODY:
Just weeks after the Treasury Department gave nine of the nation's top banks $125 billion in taxpayer dollars to save them from unprecedented calamity, bank executives are salting money away in billionaire bonus pools to reward themselves for their performance. 
 Outraged? The bankers (who didn't anticipate the subprime crisis) were ready for that. So they are assuring everyone that this self-directed largess won't be paid with the same dollars they got from taxpayers. They'll use other ones. 
 What we want to know is will they be marking the bills so they can be sure which is which? 
 Unfortunately, the legislation that created the $700 billion rescue fund barely touched on the problem of executive compensation -- limiting bonuses only when they are found to have been based on inaccurate statements of earnings or when they are deemed to encourage bankers to take ''unnecessary and excessive risks.'' The new Congress should impose tighter limits on executive pay at banks taking taxpayer money. 
 Meanwhile, other ways should be explored to recover undue rewards. New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, sent a letter last week to all of the banks that got money from the Treasury Department asking for information about their bonus pools. He already has used laws on fraudulent payments to convince the American International Group, the insurance giant, to suspend some bonuses. 
 Banks cannot simply do away with all bonuses for past performance. Many are cooked into contractual agreements. And they are shrinking anyway. The New York State Assembly (which depends on Wall Street payouts for tax revenue) forecast that financial-industry bonuses would fall 41 percent, on average. 
 Still, there is a solid argument to deny bonuses to executives who eagerly gorged on dodgy securities that drove the banks to the brink of collapse. There is also a solid argument for clawing back the bonuses they made during the subprime-mortgage-backed boom times that set the stage for the present disaster.
 This isn't just an issue of fairness; it's sound business practice. It is past time that banks -- which turn to the taxpayers for help when they get in trouble -- institute a system of incentives that aligns rewards with long-term success. It's about tempering bankers' intemperate appetite for risk, which has led this country into the most desperate financial crisis since the 1930s.
 The new Congress should take up this issue. For starters, it should tighten limits on executive compensation for bankers who have taken taxpayer money. Representative Henry Waxman, the chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, has already asked the nine banks for data about bonuses. 
 All financial institutions must review their compensation practices. They must do away with a system of rewards that encourages bankers to throw away all caution in pursuit of short-term profits -- leaving shareholders and taxpayers holding the empty bag. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); INSURANCE (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (51%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



325 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
Jamaica's Golden Age
Many hot spots around the globe had just a brief time in the sun -- a moment when they were the ''it'' destination for celebrities and the wealthy of their era. For Jamaica, that golden age was the 1950s and the early '60s. 
nytimes.com/travel
SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET,
The Election After-Party
Bill Cunningham remarks on the energy on the street the night of the presidential election, and what women wore to work the next morning.
nytimes.com/styles
Bits
Simple Start-Ups
To Change the World
Whether it's rating household products, making it easier to buy solar panels or streaming live video from cellphones, simplicity is the key to three start-ups.
nytimes.com/bits
SLIDESHOW: LOFT AESTHETIC
Of an Old Brownstone
Deborah Marland and David Backus's remodeled house in Park Slope, Brooklyn, which Ms. Marland has lived in since the early 1970s, feels more like a loft than a brownstone.
nytimes.com/realestate
SLIDESHOW: THE WEEK IN PICTURES
Photographs from the past week in New York City and the region, including long lines, polling machine problems and elation in Harlem on Election Day.
nytimes.com/nyregion
AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
Jeff Sommer and Peter Goodman of The Times discuss the sharp rise in the nation's unemployment rate, which is currently at 6.5 percent after the economy lost 240,000 jobs in October.
nytimes.com/business
Economix
Role of Gay Weddings
Generally speaking, same-sex weddings can present opportunities for local economic growth.
nytimes.com/economix
SLIDESHOW: UNDER THE RADAR
In Uruguay
Jose Ignacio, a small village on the country's southern coast, has evolved into possibly the choicest spot in Latin America, favored by jet-setters from around the world. The appeal is in its bohemian, informal atmosphere: dirt roads, mom-and-pop boutiques and bed-and-breakfasts.
nytimes.com/travel
Opinion Today
Bloggingheads.tv Will a President Obama fall captive to liberal interest groups and the Democratic Congress?
nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); LIBERALISM (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



326 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Condemn President Of Georgia

BYLINE: By OLESYA VARTANYAN and MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ; Olesya Vartanyan reported from Tbilisi, and Michael Schwirtz from Moscow.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
Thousands of antigovernment demonstrators poured into the streets of Georgia's capital, Tbilisi, on Friday, hoping to weaken the government of President Mikheil Saakashvili as it strives to maintain power despite a catastrophic war with Russia and a growing economic malaise at home. 
 The large, though generally subdued, demonstration occurred one year after black-helmeted riot police officers violently quashed opposition protests in Tbilisi, pelting unarmed civilians with clubs and rubber bullets, and using tear gas and water cannons to chase the protesters from the streets. 
 That event roused accusations domestically and internationally that the president's promises of democracy and reform, which he made upon taking power in a bloodless coup in 2003, had fallen short, leaving Georgia only slightly more democratic than the country's post-Soviet neighbors, including Azerbaijan, Armenia and Russia. 
 But while Mr. Saakashvili is perhaps still off kilter after last year's political tumult and the war with Russia in August -- which many see as a humiliation for Georgia that the president may have provoked -- he remains popular and appears still to be very much in control. 
 At Friday's protest, opposition politicians condemned Mr. Saakashvili's handling of the war and blamed the president for losing two separatist Georgian enclaves, South Ossetia, over which the war was fought, and Abkhazia. Russia has consolidated its control of both enclaves and now recognizes them as independent states, despite widespread international disapproval of the move. 
 Protesting opposition members also repeated accusations of fraud in presidential and parliamentary elections held this year, and they called for early elections to be held in the spring. 
 But the message was equally one of patience, with opposition leaders apparently using the protest to gauge the political mood just months after a majority of Georgians rallied to the side of Mr. Saakashvili in the face of a Russian invasion. 
 ''It is impossible to reach freedom in half an hour, one hour or two hours,'' Kakha Kukava, an opposition leader, told the protesters. 
 Some of the demonstrators were disappointed in calls to wait, saying they would like Mr. Saakashvili and his team to be removed from power immediately, lest they provoke renewed fighting with Russia. 
 ''Saakashvili should go right now,'' said Eka Jipashvili, a protesters. ''We need a new government that will be able to negotiate with Russia and will not worry us with ideas of new war.'' 
 Few analysts, however, think Mr. Saakashvili's immediate removal is possible, given the fractured state of the opposition. Some central opposition figures skipped the protest, including Nino Burdzhanadze, a former speaker of the Parliament and an erstwhile confidant of Mr. Saakashvili, who broke with the president over the police crackdown last November. 
 ''I don't think the opposition is going to storm the president's office, storm Parliament and take over Georgia,'' said Lincoln Mitchell, a Georgia expert at Columbia University. 
 Friday's demonstration appeared to be largely a victory for the Georgian government, which has been under increasing scrutiny internally and by backers in Western governments. The government has said it aspires to follow the democratic principles espoused by Mr. Saakashvili, but critics say it has receded in practice. 
 The demonstration, which the government allowed, occurred without problems, and few police officers were on the streets. 
 It was muted compared with last year's raucous protests. Back then, about 500 people were injured, though none fatally, in the police crackdown, which was the culmination of a month of political turmoil that had pushed the once enormously popular government of Mr. Saakashvili to the verge of implosion and that had stained relations with the president's allies in Europe and the United States. 
 Yet Mr. Saakashvili survived politically, unexpectedly conceding to opposition demands and declaring early presidential elections that temporarily eased internal political tensions and foreign criticism. He won the elections, though there were accusations of fraud by the opposition. 
 In a televised appeal made last month, Mr. Saakashvili said he had learned painful lessons from last year's police violence and vowed to prevent a recurrence. 
 ''We have all learned big lessons from Nov. 7,'' he said. ''We have seen mistakes made by the Georgian authorities.'' 
 He added: ''Those events demonstrate how important it is for the government and the president to listen to the people, and how important it is to maintain dialogue even with minor groups.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 8 about an antigovernment protest in Georgia on the first anniversary of a violently suppressed demonstration referred imprecisely to the reasons Nino Burdzhanadze, now an opposition leader, split with the government of President Mikheil Saakashvili. Ms. Burdzhanadze, who was speaker of the parliament, split with the president and left her job for several reasons, including that she felt his party was not giving her sufficient support; she did not break with the president solely over the government's actions during last year's demonstration. The article also referred imprecisely to when she broke with the government. It was in April, not immediately after last November's crackdown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Residents of Tbilisi, Georgia, gathered at a rally outside Parliament on Friday. Opposition politicians at the condemned President Mikheil Saakashvili's handling of the war with Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RIOTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) GEORGIA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



327 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Green Plans In Blueprints Of Retailers

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
In new Wal-Mart stores, the baseboards and moldings are made of plastic left over from diaper manufacturing. Chipotle, the burrito chain, has installed an energy-producing wind turbine outside a new store in the Chicago suburbs. And a Florida chain called Pizza Fusion reuses the draft from its ovens to heat water.
 Across the country, a race is under way among stores and fast-food restaurants to build environmentally friendly outlets, as a way to curry favor with consumers and to lower operating costs. Most chains are focusing on prototypes at the moment, but the trend could eventually change the look and function of thousands of stores. 
 One of the latest participants is McDonald's, which recently opened a revamped restaurant in a gritty industrial area on the South Side of Chicago, across from a food manufacturing plant and next to the Swap-O-Rama flea market. 
 The newly rebuilt restaurant is crammed with energy- and water-saving gadgets as varied as high-efficiency appliances, pavement that filters rainwater, and tables and chairs made out of recycled material. It even has a garden on the roof.
 The green building boom is partly being driven by retailers' desire to capture the attention of consumers who have become fascinated by hybrid cars, energy-saving light bulbs and wind turbines.
 But more important for the companies, it is a way to shave long-term operating costs at stores and restaurants, which consume copious amounts of energy and water for ovens and fryers, heaters and air conditioners, sinks and toilets.
 McDonald's, for instance, plans to take the most successful aspects of its Chicago restaurant and replicate them at new outlets across the country.
 ''You get energy savings, and you can tell customers you are greener. That's a win-win,'' said Neil Z. Stern, a retail consultant for McMillanDoolittle in Chicago. 
 While customers may like the idea of green buildings, Mr. Stern said he was skeptical that it would lure them into stores. ''Ultimately, the reason you do it is it's a better way to run your business,'' he said.
 Subway unveiled its first ''eco-store'' last year in Florida and has opened four more. Target, Office Depot and Staples have opened green stores, and Best Buy has announced plans to do the same.
 A few chains are even further along. Recently, Kohl's opened 45 stores that were built using recycled materials, water-saving plumbing fixtures and on-site recycling. Wal-Mart, meanwhile, has taken the most successful techniques from prototype stores and incorporated them into all new stores, and it continues to experiment with ''high-efficiency'' stores that save 20 to 45 percent in energy costs when compared with more traditional stores. 
 While the ''green'' moniker is ill-defined and vulnerable to exaggeration, many of the chains, including McDonald's, are seeking certification from the United States Green Building Council, a nonprofit agency in Washington whose rating system is a widely accepted standard.
 Called LEED certification, for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, it provides a rating for buildings based on human and environmental health, sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection and indoor environmental quality.
 Under a new program, McDonald's hopes to obtain certification for its prototype and then build many more restaurants based on that template, without going through the paperwork and expense of certifying each restaurant.
 LEED certification, though, is not without detractors, some of whom complain about the cost and inconvenience. Michael Gordon, one of the founders of Pizza Fusion, a Florida chain that has several green restaurants and boasts of its environmental ethos, said a 2,000-square-foot restaurant paid the same certification fees as one five times as large.
 Some others say they are uncomfortable with companies promoting their buildings as green.
 ''There's no such thing as a green building with a full parking lot,'' said Seth Kaplan, vice president for climate advocacy at the Conservation Law Foundation. ''That's just an unavoidable truth.'' 
 Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at New York University and a frequent critic of fast-food chains, said the green buildings were laudable but were ultimately intended to make people feel better about eating unhealthful food. 
 ''Takes your mind off the calories, doesn't it?'' she wrote in an e-mail message. Ms. Nestle added in an interview, ''I think it's fabulous that they are doing it, and McDonald's always has a tremendous impact. But it's still making junk food.''
 The financial and credit crisis could do more to slow construction of green buildings than any public criticism. For now, though, retailers say building LEED-certified buildings make economic sense, particularly with energy prices becoming so unpredictable.
 At Wal-Mart, for instance, all new stores have highly efficient lights, skylights and improved heating, cooling and refrigeration systems. The floors of the stores are not covered but instead are exposed concrete slabs made with recycled steel and fly ash, a waste product. The high-efficiency prototype stores are equipped with even more efficient heating and cooling systems; a store in Las Vegas, for instance, is expected to save 45 percent in energy costs over traditional stores.
 Charles Zimmerman, vice president for prototypical design-construction standards at Wal-Mart, said his company was experimenting to determine which technologies provided the most energy savings, because energy was the company's second-biggest operating expense, after personnel. For instance, the company found that large wind turbines did not make sense at its stores.
 Peter DiPasqua, a Subway franchisee with 89 stores in central Florida, said he originally thought his green store in Kissimmee was largely a ''feel-good thing.'' But he said as construction progressed, he became more impressed with the benefits of LEED-certified construction.
 The store cost about 20 percent more to build, Mr. DiPasqua said. But he said he was saving 20 percent a month on electricity even though the store, in a prime location, is selling 43 percent more than a store down the street. 
 ''I underestimated it all,'' he said. ''What's amazing is 43 percent more bakes in the oven, and doors opening and toilets flushing. And to have 20 percent less energy consumption?''
 The revamped McDonald's in Chicago is not the company's first green building. There is one in Sweden, another in Brazil and yet another in Savannah, Ga., which was built as part of a larger LEED-certified development. Several are under construction in Brazil, Canada and Costa Rica. 
 But the Chicago restaurant is one of the most advanced. Opened in August, it was built specifically to test assorted technologies. The restaurant is wired with sensors to determine how much energy the lights use and how much water is flushed by each urinal.
 ''If we are going to go to an operator and try to sell this, we need to know the bottom line,'' said John Rockwell, lead quality manager of restaurant design for McDonald's in the United States. ''That's the first question they'll ask.''
 He explained that McDonald's had chosen Chicago for the green restaurant because the city had a program that expedited the permitting process for LEED-certified buildings. The building cost more than a typical restaurant, he said, but would not be more specific.
 During a tour, Mr. Rockwell explained that permeable pavement slows and cleans rainwater that might normally pollute city waterways. A cistern buried behind the restaurant alsocollects rainwater, which is used to water the landscaping. The roof garden helps insulate the restaurant. 
 The store is lighted with skylights and energy-saving fixtures containing light-emitting diodes. Because air quality is an important LEED criterion, McDonald's used paints and resins that do not emit chemical odors, and less-toxic cleaners are used to spruce up floors and tables. The store even has a special mat at the entrance to knock dust and particles from shoes and keep dust from wafting through the air.
 Mr. Rockwell was particularly enthusiastic about the low-flow toilets and urinals, which use even less water than the standard low-flow variety, without the usual clogging -- quite a feat at a busy restaurant. ''We are saving significant water doing that,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patrons at a McDonald's in Chicago, which was environmentally redesigned with tables made from recycled material.
 John Rockwell, manager of restaurant design for McDonald's, at the rooftop garden on the revamped restaurant.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BETH ROONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); PLASTIC PLUMBING FIXTURES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FOOD MFG (73%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (51%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (74%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



328 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS Stocks Rise Despite Dismal Jobs Report

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Jack Healy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Sometimes, the market can move in mysterious ways.
This week, stocks started with a 300-point gain, promptly dropped 1,000 points, and then, on Friday, gained back 248 points despite terrible employment numbers and news that General Motors, a titan of American industry for decades, may not have enough cash to make it through the end of the year.
All of this poses a question: Huh? 
''The lesson people have to learn is they can no longer look for rational reasons for why short-term moves are happening,'' said Randy Cass of First Coverage, a research firm.
''At any given day on any given moment in time, you can step aside and see a 10 percent rally happen. You just have to stop trying to rationalize why,'' he said. ''People are waking up and they're feeling one way on a Friday and another way on a Thursday, and that's what's driving this market right now.''
This may come as cold comfort to those who cling to the belief that the stock market -- that universal thermometer of the nation's economy -- offers clues to where the world of finance is heading. Ideally, investors place bets based on how they expect businesses to perform over time.
But in a week where the Dow traded across a 1,000-point range and displayed the jumpiness of a teenager on Red Bull, those ideals start to break down.
''I don't take anything for granted any more,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, a strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. ''I find it hard to make much of any single day's trading activity.''
Still, this week's moves, loopy as they were, do offer some insight into what is happening among the investor class. The most conspicuous statistic on the market this week, analysts said, was what was absent: volume.
''More and more people are stepping to the sidelines and saying, 'I just don't want to be a part of this right now,' '' Mr. Cass said. ''The risk to the downside is just too much. This is one of the reasons we're seeing incredible volatility.''
Indeed, the broader sentiment among investors remains incredibly bearish. Although stocks have swung wildly recently, the larger direction is down; on Thursday, the Dow neared its year-to-date low set on Oct. 27.
That discouraged attitude has prompted many investors to simply take their money out of stocks and hold off placing bets until the waters have calmed. The result is a market with fewer players -- trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday was unusually low -- which means a handful of big moves can sway the overall direction of stocks.
''As more and more people step to the sidelines, it takes fewer and fewer people to have a shift in sentiment to drive the market,'' Mr. Cass said. With lower volume, stocks can move ''to what we used to regard as extremes, and what we now regard as just another day.''
Some of this could explain the gains on Friday. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.9 percent to close at 930.99. The Nasdaq composite index gained 2.4 percent, and the Dow closed up 248.02 points, or 2.9 percent, at 8,943.81, after spending the day in positive territory and surging in late trading.
This came despite a brutal report on the labor market that showed the economy lost 240,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate rose to its highest level since 1994. And investors were faced with dismal earnings from the nation's two largest automakers, General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, including a $4.2 billion loss from G.M. and a warning that the company might be running out of money. G.M. shares fell 9 percent to $4.36, and Ford's shares rose 2 percent to $2.02.
Some analysts said that the news was so bad, it encouraged investors that governments and central banks might be prompted to put more money into the financial system, which could help prop up businesses next year.
''Today was a case of bad news on the economy leading to expectations of more support from policy makers,'' Mr. Schweitzer said. ''The stars are aligning in favor of a much more aggressive fiscal stimulus in response to a deteriorating economic picture.''
But no one seemed willing to read much into the uptick at the end of the day.
''You have very low volume and very high volatility. That to me is a sign of a lack of conviction,'' Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, said. ''That indicates that investors are not willing to commit capital for any prolonged period of time.''
Shares on the major indexes ended the week down about 4 percent after suffering through the worst two-day stretch since 1987.
Shares of companies that produce basic materials like metals and chemicals were among those that fared best on Friday, along with utilities and the energy sector. Oil prices rose 27 cents, to settle at $61.04 a barrel.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 28/32, to 101 21/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.79 percent, up from 3.69 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



329 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Vermont Bank Thrives While Others Cut Back

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: ORWELL, Vt. 

 BODY:
Not much has changed over the years at the First National Bank of Orwell. Not the gilded chandeliers and teller's booths with brass bars separating employees and customers. Not its view of the village green across the street. And most certainly not its ability to make loans, even as the big-city banks are cutting back.
 ''Demand is up, there's a tight credit market out there, and we benefit from having money available,'' said Bryan Young, the vice president. ''We're very particular on what and who we take, and there's no need to take anything less than solid credit.'' 
 While many of the nation's large and midsize banks are staggering under the weight of bad mortgages piled up during the housing boom, the First National Bank of Orwell, Vermont's smallest bank, founded in 1832, is having its best year in recent memory. Loans are up 22.6 percent from a year ago, and deposits are up 7 percent in the same period, Mr. Young said. The bank has $36.5 million in assets. 
 ''If the banks maintained the lending standards that they had established in the past, and had not and did not buy a lot of securities from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they've got no problems and they're sound,'' said James F. Gatti, a finance professor at the University of Vermont. 
 ''There is a value to sticking to your knitting, if you will,'' Mr. Gatti added. ''And I think banks that did will prosper, and prosper nicely, in the next few years.''
 Of course, not all small banks have sailed through the financial crisis. Some invested heavily in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance companies that were effectively nationalized in September, and must now write off that debt. Others, especially in places like Florida and Nevada, are having problems after making loans to contractors who cannot sell or finish homes. There is concern in some circles that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's decision to raise bank insurance to $250,000 from $100,000 could prop up problem banks that might otherwise fail or merge with other institutions. 
 And while well-managed community banks have weathered the storm, the bread-and-butter of their portfolios are mortgages and commercial loans, which could face greater risk as the economic slowdown deepens and unemployment rises. 
 But for the moment, most of the country's smallest banks are doing well, in large part because they, like the bank here, did not get into subprime loans, said Karen Tyson, a spokeswoman for the Independent Community Bankers of America, a trade group that represents small banks. 
 ''There are about 8,500 banks, and a majority of those are not having the challenges that the larger institutions are having,'' she said. ''They are in a position to withstand this, and they want to help the country recover.'' 
 Indeed, while a Federal Reserve Board survey released Monday found that banks over all had tightened lending on everything from commercial real estate to residential mortgages since July, First National still has plenty of capital to lend and has not had to restrict lending, Mr. Young said. ''Nothing's really changed,'' he said. ''We haven't tightened anything in particular.''
 First National, whose main branch is next to a village store where local residents sit on the porch, drink coffee and chew the fat, has stayed successful because its employees know the area and their customers. 
 ''Having the borrower sit in front of us is very meaningful,'' Mr. Young said. ''We're not massive brokers, trying to underwrite a loan from the 55th floor of an office somewhere. There's serious value in looking someone in the eye and understanding what their drive is, where they're coming from and how serious they are about the project.''
 The employees at the branches here and in neighboring Shoreham also know where a building project is and what it looks like. 
 ''We benefit from knowing what house they're talking about, what shape it's in and what neighborhood,'' Mr. Young said. ''We benefit from a very detailed knowledge of our community, its people and its geography.'' 
 Many times, the project is on one of the dairy farms that dot the verdant, rolling hills here. Or a couple are asking for a mortgage to buy their first home. No matter who the prospective borrower is, the bank requires a 20 percent down payment for every loan, Mr. Young said. 
 As bigger banks fail or merge, some community banks are absorbing growing numbers of depositors, while strengthening community ties and championing their conservative approach to lending. The increase in deposit insurance has helped, said John S. Carusone of the Bank Analysis Center in Hartford, Conn., which provides data to small banks in 11 states on the East Coast. 
 ''They may be viewed as a safe haven for retail and commercial customers that are disenchanted with the performance of larger banks,'' he said.
 Such has been the case at the Bank of South Carolina, which has four branches in the Charleston area. The bank's growth last month was the biggest in its 21-year history, with nearly $15 million in new deposits.
 The president and chief executive, Hugh C. Lane Jr., said his bank had grown carefully and refused to take risky investments. 
 Like Mr. Young, Mr. Lane prides himself on providing personal service. ''The cardinal rule of banking,'' Mr. Lane said, ''is to know your customer.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the tiny First National Bank of Orwell, Vt., which has escaped the financial turmoil affecting many larger banks, misstated the genesis of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's move to increase deposit insurance to $250,000 per account, from $100,000. The action was dictated by Congress as part of an economic bailout plan enacted in early October; it was not the F.D.I.C.'s decision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Young, right, president of First National Bank of Orwell in Vermont, with a customer. Loans are up 22.6 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



330 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Rich and Poor Strain To Respond to Tough Times

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Arizona State University, anticipating at least $25 million in budget cuts this fiscal year -- on top of the $30 million already cut -- is ending its contracts with as many as 200 adjunct instructors. 
 Boston University, Cornell and Brown have announced selective hiring freezes. 
 And Tufts University, which for the last two years has, proudly, been one of the few colleges in the nation that could afford to be need-blind -- that is, to admit the best-qualified applicants and meet their full financial need -- may not be able to maintain that generosity for next year's incoming class. This fall, Tufts suspended new capital projects and budgeted more for financial aid. But with the market downturn, and the likelihood that more applicants will need bigger aid packages, need-blind admissions may go by the wayside. 
 ''The target of being need-blind is our highest priority,'' said Lawrence S. Bacow, president of Tufts. ''But with what's happening in the larger economy, we expect that the incoming class is going to be needier. That's the real uncertainty.'' 
 Tough economic times have come to public and private universities alike, and rich or poor, they are figuring out how to respond. Many are announcing hiring freezes, postponing construction projects or putting off planned capital campaigns. 
 With endowment values and charitable gifts likely to decline, the process of setting next year's tuition low enough to keep students coming, but high enough to support operations, is trickier than ever. 
 Dozens of college presidents, especially at wealthy institutions, have sent letters and e-mail to students and their families describing their financial situation and belt-tightening plans. 
 At Williams College, for example, President Morton Owen Schapiro wrote that with last year's negative return on the endowment and the worsening situation since June, some renovation and facilities spending would be reduced and nonessential openings left unfilled.
 Many students, increasingly conscious of costs, are flocking to their state universities; at Binghamton University, part of the New York State university system, applications were up 50 percent this fall. But with this year's state budget problems, tuition increases at public universities may be especially steep. Some public universities have already announced midyear tuition increases.
 With endowment values shrinking, variable-rate debt costs rising and states cutting their financing, colleges face challenges on multiple fronts, said Molly Corbett Broad, president of the American Council on Education.
 ''There's no evidence of a complete meltdown,'' Ms. Broad said, ''but the problems are serious enough that higher education is going to need help from the government.''
 And as in other sectors, she said, some financially shaky institutions will most likely be seeking mergers. 
 Nationwide, retrenchment announcements are coming fast and furious, as state after state reduces education financing.
 The University of Florida, which eliminated 430 faculty and staff positions this year, was told recently to cut next year's budget by 10 percent, probably requiring more layoffs. Financing for the University of Massachusetts system was cut $24.6 million for the current fiscal year. 
 On Thursday, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California proposed a midyear budget cut of $65.5 million for the University of California system -- on top of the $48 million reduction already in the budget. 
 ''Budget cuts mean that campuses won't be able to fill faculty vacancies, that the student-faculty ratio rises, that students have lecturers instead of tenured professors,'' said Mark G. Yudof, president of the California system. ''Higher education is very labor intensive. We may be getting to the point where there will have to be some basic change in the model.'' 
 Private colleges, too, are tightening their belts -- turning down thermostats, scrapping plans for new gardens or quads, reducing faculty raises. 
 But many are also increasing their pool of financial aid. 
 Vassar College will give out $1 million more in financial aid this year than originally budgeted, even though the endowment, which provides a third of its operating budget, dropped to $765 million at the end of September, down $80 million from late June. President Catharine Bond Hill of Vassar said the college would reduce its operating costs, but remain need-blind. 
 Many institutions with small endowments, however, will probably become more need-sensitive than usual this year, quietly offering places to fewer students who need large aid packages. 
 At Dickinson College in Pennsylvania, Robert J. Massa, the vice president for enrollment and student life, said that about 200 applicants last year might have been accepted if they had not needed so much financial help, but that that number might rise to 250 this year. 
 Dickinson's endowment was $280 million in mid-October, Mr. Massa said, down from $350 million in June. And while more than three quarters of the college's operating budget comes from student fees, some endowment revenue will have to be replaced. 
 ''Here's the rub,'' Mr. Massa said. ''I really don't think that colleges can afford to increase their tuition price at higher than inflation this year. I don't think the public will stand for it. What we've done in higher education is let our dreams and aspirations dictate our cost structure.'' 
 Most colleges will have a better sense next month of how many students are struggling, when second-semester tuition bills come due.
 Paola Aguilar, a sophomore at Shenandoah University in Winchester, Va., is worrying about whether she can afford to return next year. 
 ''My mom became a Realtor last year to try to earn more money, but that didn't help,'' Ms. Aguilar said. ''I've talked to the people here, and they've helped me out a little more for next semester, but as of right now, if I don't get more help, I'll have to leave next year and go somewhere cheaper, near home.'' 
 Tracy Fitzsimmons, Shenandoah's president, said she began hearing about students' financial anxieties in mid-September.
 ''They'd tell me they were thinking they might have to move off campus next semester and stay three to a bedroom, or give up the meal plan and just eat one meal a day,'' Ms. Fitzsimmons said. 
 Shenandoah has started an emergency grant fund for students, increased its loan program and prepared to stretch out spring tuition payments for hard-pressed families. 
 Economic uncertainty touches every facet of higher education. 
 ''We are planning to begin a capital campaign of $150-185 million,'' said Karen R. Lawrence, president of Sarah Lawrence College. ''We will still do that. We're not compromising our ambitions, but the timing will be a little bit deferred.'' 
 At the wealthiest institutions, endowment revenue usually covers about a third of operating costs, and most colleges and universities spend a percentage of their endowment, based on its average value over the previous three years, helping to smooth out economic ups and downs.
 In recent years, with tuition rising faster than inflation, college affordability has become a significant issue. And with the sharp growth of endowments in recent years -- Harvard's hit $36.9 billion this summer -- some politicians, notably Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have pushed for a requirement that colleges spend 5 percent of their endowments. Many of the wealthiest institutions responded by expanding financial aid last year, with dozens of them replacing loans with grants. 
 This fall, more universities are taking steps to increase affordability. Benedictine University, a Roman Catholic institution in Illinois, is freezing tuition; Vanderbilt University will replace loans with grants; Boston University has expanded scholarships for students who graduated from Boston public schools; and the University of Toledo announced free tuition for needy, high-performing graduates of Ohio's six largest public school systems. 
 Presidents of many expensive private colleges are wondering how much more tuition pressure families can bear. 
 ''I wouldn't deny that a tuition freeze has occurred to me, but we can't afford heroic gestures,'' said Sandy Ungar, president of Goucher College in Baltimore. 
 Given the current climate, some say, colleges need to re-examine all of their economic assumptions.
 ''Several years ago, we started thinking about sustainability in environmental terms,'' said Dick Celeste, the president of Colorado College. ''Now we need to be thinking about sustainability in economic terms.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California has proposed a midyear budget cut of $65.5 million for the university system there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER/GETTY IMAGES)
 At Tufts University in Medford, Mass., the goal of need-blind admissions may be in jeopardy because of the market downturn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHARITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



331 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: In England, Fans Buy the Ultimate Fantasy Team

BYLINE: By KABIR CHIBBER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Wembley Stadium is usually the stage for some of the most glamorous names in soccer, yet 26,000 spectators were there in May, most of them clad in red and white to support tiny Ebbsfleet United in a cup final match against Torquay United. It was an incredible turnout for such a small team, considering that many had never heard of it until a few months earlier, when they got together over the Internet and decided to buy it.
Watching from the stands was Will Brooks, the architect of one of the world's most unusual sports experiments.
''Twelve months ago this was all a dream, and now we've gone to Wembley,'' he said. 
For Brooks and the rest of Ebbsfleet's fans/owners, the trip was a success. Their team prevailed, 1-0, and won the F.A. Trophy for English soccer's equivalent of minor league clubs -- the biggest prize in Ebbsfleet's 116-year history.
Brooks, a 37-year-old former advertising copywriter, set up a Web site in 2007 called MyFootballClub.co.uk that asked a simple question: how many people would be interested in pooling their money to buy a soccer club, so that ordinary fans could vote on every decision, from uniform design to player selection? More than $400,000 was raised on the first day of public registration.
The Web fantasy became reality when members voted in February to take over Ebbsfleet United, a tiny, unsuccessful club in southeast England, for slightly less than $1 million.
MyFootballClub has about 31,000 members/owners from all over the world (including the author of this article), all of whom pay an annual subscription of about $60 to be a member of the nonprofit trust that owns ''the Fleet.''
The club is run on the principle of one person, one vote for every decision, major or minor. Ebbsfleet recently made headlines in the British press when members voted to sell John Akinde, a talented young striker, for about $250,000, the first vote of its kind.
The Web site now features video highlights, interviews, unruly forums and an elected board that meets via Internet phone calls on Skype. There are offers to replicate the MyFootballClub idea in the United States and in Italy, as well as in other sports.
''It's been so surreal from the very start, when it was announced that Ebbsfleet was going to be the team,'' said Dave Morgan, 37, a member living in Bristol. ''All of a sudden the police in the area started to panic in case 20,000 MyFootballClub members turned up for the next game.''
The team is based in Northfleet, a town one hour east of London that compares unfavorably to soccer capitals like Manchester or Madrid. The ground at Stonebridge Road sits next to a car wash. Smokestacks and factories stick out among the rolling green hills. The population is just over 13,000.
In mid-October, five months after the F.A. Trophy victory at Wembley and eight months after the takeover, Ebbsfleet found itself facing Torquay again in an important match for the team's hopes to reach the Football Conference playoffs.
''At the bigger clubs, you're just one of the crowd,'' 73-year-old Albert Oliver said as he sipped a pint in the team pub. He has supported the team since 1947. ''Here, it's more like family. You know everyone.''
A man came over to ask if Oliver would be going to the away match at Woking the next week. He nodded. The game was about to begin.
Five divisions above Ebbsfleet, takeovers are the vogue for the teams battling for the title in the English Premier League, the richest and most-watched soccer league in the world. Out of 20 teams, 7 have been bought by foreigners since 2003, including the current European champions Manchester United, who were taken over amid much protest in 2005 by Malcolm Grazer, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' owner.
The takeover of Ebbsfleet was supposed to be different, a purchase by fans for the love of the game, a variation on soccer clubs in Spain that are owned by their supporters.
Still, there have been doubters. Outrage was directed at one particular aspect of the takeover, which gave the new owners the right to decide the squad. How could people living all over the world choose a team when most had never seen the players in action? Could any of those thousands of fans do a better job than a professional manager?
In reality, the ''pick the team'' selector has never been used.
Less than one-third of the membership participates in the weekly votes, and most who do choose the option to let the coach do the dirty work.
Liam Daish, 40, Ebbsfleet's head coach, is less than enthusiastic about the possibility of being usurped by amateurs. ''I had a bit of trepidation about it,'' he said. ''But I can't worry about things that I have no control over. The football's all about hard work, there's no science to it.''
Others say team selection is too much responsibility and, well, too much work. ''For some, the idea of simply owning a slice of the club is enough,'' said David Hume, 50, who lives in Australia. ''I think this is the fantasy element for them.''
When the match against Torquay got under way at Stonebridge Road, the visiting team outplayed the home team at nearly every position, a fact that did not escape the home team's supporter/owners. At one point an Ebbsfleet defender made a mess of a pass to his teammate.
''Right where he wanted it, knee-high and hard,'' said a fan, shaking his head.
Still, this is the game at its purest. Part of the appeal of supporting a small club like Ebbsfleet is that the players aren't much better than their audience. Fans can't relate to dating a pop star or dealing with the pressure of a penalty kick in a Champions League final, but most can understand being unable to get to the ball quickly because of a cramp.
Torquay ended the game atoning for its loss at Wembley with a 2-0 victory. It was Ebbsfleet's fourth defeat in a row, its worst streak in three and a half years. The club sits in 17th place in the 24-team league.
Ebbsfleet also faces the prospect of 26,000 memberships coming up for renewal at the same time in February. If MyFootballClub can't persuade enough people to sign in a tough worldwide economic climate, the experiment in fan ownership will end.
Nevertheless, most have remained upbeat as they keep learning what it means to be owners.
''On paper, it's been a phenomenal success, but I don't think anyone ever feels they've cracked it,'' Brooks said. ''Because at the end of the day, it's all based on what happens on a Saturday afternoon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, Ebbsfleet United's fans -- many of whom are also its owners -- cheering on their team as it won the F.A. Trophy final in May.
Ebbsfleet's Web site, top, is vital to its operations. The team scored its biggest success when it beat Torquay for the F.A. Trophy, above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN STANSALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL GILHAM/GETTY IMAGES)
Ebbsfleet lost to Torquay last month, at a site far different from Wembley Stadium, and fell to 17th place in its 24-team league.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KABIR CHIBBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Ebbsfleet United team after winning the F.A. Trophy. ''At the bigger clubs, you're just one of the crowd,'' a fan said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. D5) MAPS Map details area of BRITAIN (pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POLICE FORCES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (71%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (64%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (64%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



332 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Jamie Gorelick

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of profiles of potential members of the administration. 
 Name: Jamie Gorelick
Being considered for: Attorney general 
 Would bring to the job: A wide-ranging Washington resume that spans corporate, legal and national security affairs. Ms. Gorelick (pronounced Guh-REH-lick) was the No. 2 official at the Justice Department in the Clinton administration, from 1994 to 1997, and if chosen would be the second woman to be named attorney general, following her former boss, Janet Reno. Ms. Gorelick would also bring corporate experience to an Obama administration at a time of financial crisis.
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: Deep contacts in Democratic circles and a background in civil rights. But Ms. Gorelick backed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primaries and contributed early on to her campaign, which could work against her as a contender. She contributed $10,000 to Mr. Obama's presidential political action committee in August, after his nomination was all but assured. 
 In her own words: ''You know someone respected you if they called you 'sir,' '' Ms. Gorelick said, alluding to the glass ceiling at the Pentagon, where she worked as general counsel in the 1990s. '' 'Ma'am' is what you call your mom.''
 Used to work as: Vice chairwoman at Fannie Mae, the giant mortgage lender, where she was paid a reported $25.6 million in salary and other compensation from 1998 to 2003. She went on to join the Washington law firm Wilmer, Cutler, Pickering, Hale & Dorr as a partner, where she has represented a range of clients, including Duke University in defending claims brought against it by some of its lacrosse players in a highly publicized rape investigation. She was a Democratic appointee on the 10-member commission that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Carries as baggage: Her work at Fannie Mae, which had to be bailed out by the government in September as part of a $200 billion deal. Ms. Gorelick left the company just as it was coming under attack for huge accounting failures. She has also drawn criticism for her role at the Justice Department, in which she allegedly created an intelligence ''wall'' that hindered counterterrorism agents in the years before the Sept. 11 attacks. Conservatives called for her removal from the Sept. 11 commission, but her fellow members rallied around her and said critics were distorting her record. The criticism grew so heated that the F.B.I. investigated a death threat against her family, and President Bush had to intervene personally to stop the Justice Department from releasing sealed reports involving her. Some conservative bloggers have already begun trying to derail Ms. Gorelick's possible nomination as attorney general, pointing to her experiences at both Fannie Mae and the Sept. 11 commission.
 Resume includes: Born May 6, 1950, in New York City and raised on Long Island in Great Neck. Graduated from Harvard and Harvard Law School. Active in the bar association in Washington, D.C., and on women's legal issues. Named by Legal Times as one of the ''greatest Washington lawyers'' of the last 30 years. Married with two children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WOMEN (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); TERRORISM (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); LACROSSE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%)

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



333 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Jihadi Leader in Iraq Says Radicals Share in Obama Victory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and SOUAD MEKHENNET

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
The leader of a jihadi group in Iraq argued Friday that the election of Barack Obama as president represented a victory for radical Islamic groups that had battled American forces since the invasion of Iraq.
 The statement, which experts said was part of the psychological duel with the United States, was included in a 25-minute audiotaped speech by Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, leader of the Islamic State of Iraq, an umbrella organization that claims ties to Al Qaeda. Mr. Baghdadi's statement was posted on a password-protected Web site called Al Hesbah, used to disseminate information to Islamic radicals.
 In his address, Mr. Baghdadi also said that the election of Mr. Obama -- and the rejection of the Republican candidate, Senator John McCain -- was a victory for his movement, a claim that has already begun to resonate among the radical faithful. In so doing Mr. Baghdadi highlighted the challenge the new president would face as he weighed how to remove troops from Iraq without also giving movements like Al Qaeda a powerful propaganda tool to use for recruiting. 
 ''And the other truth that politicians are embarrassed to admit,'' Mr. Baghdadi said, ''is that their unjust war on the houses of Islam, with its heavy and successive losses and the continuous operations of exhaustion of your power and your economy, were the principal cause of the collapse of the economic giant.''
 The audio statement came amid a very public discussion in the Middle East over what Mr. Obama's election meant for the future -- and what it said about the past. Most of the public reaction, in newspapers and on television and radio stations, was euphoric, with many commentators marveling at the election of a black man whose father was from a Muslim family. There was a general assessment that Mr. Obama's election was a repudiation of the course taken by President Bush and his inner circle over the past eight years.
 ''Obama's election was a message against such destruction, against unjustified wars, wars that are fought with ignorance and rashness, without knowledge of their arenas or the shape of their surroundings,'' wrote Ghassan Charbel in Thursday's issue of the Saudi-owned, pan-Arab daily newspaper Al Hayat. ''It was a message against the pattern that became a burden on the U.S. and transformed the U.S. into a burden on the world.''
 Some even pointed to Mr. Obama's election as a lesson to the rest of the region. In Kuwait, Sheik Hamed al-Ali, an Islamic scholar known for his support of jihadi fighters, posted a message titled ''We Want Change!'' on his Web site.
 Sheik Ali said, ''It remains the obligation of our Islamic nation to benefit from this example and request change, also, and to get rid of any regime that leads with ignorance and injustice, plunders from the country, enslaves the worshipers, drives us to destruction.'' The comments were then circulated on other Islamic Web forums.
 But there was also a growing chorus of caution, as commentators began to try to tamp down expectations of any change in American policies in the region. And other commentators echoed Mr. Baghdadi's view that the election was a victory for the insurgents in Iraq, the Taliban in Afghanistan, Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon.
 ''It would be no exaggeration to say that we Arabs and Muslims were the main unseen voters who decided the outcome of these elections,'' wrote Abdelbari Atwan in Wednesday's issue of the London-based pan-Arab daily newspaper Al Quds Al Arabi.
 He wrote, ''The transformation that will begin in the U.S. starting today in various political, economic, military, and social domains may well have been delayed for decades, had the new American century been crowned with victory, and had the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan taken the directions sought by the neo-cons -- in other words, had there been political stability and economic prosperity, and had the citizens of the two countries targeted by the U.S.'s designs been totally subjugated by it.''
 Mr. Baghdadi also used his address to offer Mr. Obama an unlikely deal, one certain to do little to bring any resolution to the conflict between radical Islamic groups and the United States. He offered a truce of sorts in exchange for the removal of all forces from the region.
 ''On behalf of my brothers in Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Chechnya, I offer you what is better for you and us: you return to your previous era of neutrality, you withdraw your forces, and you return to your homes,'' Mr. Baghdadi said. ''You do not interfere in the affairs of our countries, directly or indirectly. We in turn will not prevent commerce with you, whether it is in oil or otherwise, but with fairness, not at a loss.''
 Faris bin Hizam, an expert on Al Qaeda, said the offer of a trade relationship had struck a new note. ''How can he call for establishing a relationship with the United States if it withdraws?'' Mr. Bin Hizam said. ''The main principle of Al Qaeda prohibits any relation with infidels.''
 Marwan Shehadeh, a Jordanian researcher and expert in radical Islamic groups, said that Al Qaeda leaders outside Iraq might balk at such a relationship, but that jihadis might view Mr. Obama's election as an opportunity. 
 ''Of course there is a shift, because there is a new president who came from an oppressed class, and people who had little opportunity,'' Mr. Shehadeh said. ''He wants to give Obama the chance to make a change, since Obama has no previous animosity with Islam.''
 Intelligence officials working in the region said that they did not see Mr. Obama's election as having any fundamental effect on Al Qaeda, and that any talk of a truce was likely to go nowhere. But two intelligence officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the nature of their work said that they were concerned that any step that could be perceived as a victory for Al Qaeda, like pulling troops out of Iraq right away, would only strengthen its ability to recruit.
 ''If he withdraws the soldiers from Iraq before the country gets really stable, Al Qaeda will see it as their victory, and they might get stronger again,'' one regional intelligence official said. That dynamic was already beginning to play out on Al Hesbah. 
 As with other Web sites, it is impossible for an outsider to verify the identity, or integrity, of posted comments. But experts recognize Al Hesbah as the one remaining online forum for those aligned with Al Qaeda, after two other Web sites were apparently hacked and taken offline.
 On the same day Mr. Baghdadi posted his statement, others chatted about the need to continue the fight against the United States. ''All of them are low and dirty, and their hatred of Islam is the same,'' one participant wrote. Of Mr. Obama, he wrote, ''Even in his speech rejoicing his victory he said, 'To those who fight us, we will defeat you.' Let us see who will be victorious.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); WEB SITES (70%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



334 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: For Yankees, Mayors Play Ball at City's Expense

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

 BODY:
By complete accident, the latest in a series of totally innocent mistakes that goes back three full decades, the Yankees baseball company -- a very for-profit business -- has once again managed to underpay the rent it owes to the City of New York. This time, the amount came to $11.3 million, as calculated in an audit by the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr.
 Every year or so, an auditor digs through the team's books and finds some new eye-catching way that the city has been cheated. Usually, it's an outrageous expense that the team claims as a credit against its rent -- like the time it said it paid an engineer, one human being, to work 168 hours a week for six consecutive weeks. This year, it was $50,000 on a political action committee. 
 The Yankees have agreed to pay back the $11.3 million that the audit found they shorted the city.
 But these are appetizers before the true banquet: The subsidies for the construction of new stadiums and garages that come in hard cash, in the loss of public parkland and in forgone taxes. Earlier this week, The New York Times reported that the state and the city would cover at least $659 million in costs related to new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets. The teams will receive an additional $480 million in tax breaks of one kind or another.
 The first incarnations of these deals came in the final hours of the administration of Rudolph W. Giuliani, and thus had the faint whiff of idolatry about them. (Mr. Giuliani was such a Yankees fan that he managed to buy four World Series rings from the team ''at cost,'' which apparently meant thousands of dollars less than their actual value. Somehow, the city's chief executive can get discount jewelry from a sports company that was being subsidized with public funds, while the Conflict of Interest Board fined a school librarian $500 for displaying a book written by his daughter.)
 The Giuliani stadium deals were immediately canceled in 2002 when a new mayor took office -- the hard-headed, clear-thinking businessman Michael R. Bloomberg. With the city facing a recession and the loss of income from the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Bloomberg said New York simply could not afford them. Maybe later, he said.
 Over the next few years, Mr. Bloomberg proceeded to slather new layers of icing atop the Giuliani cakes. The stadium plans were reborn, richer than ever. As a result, on Saturday, there will be one of these hokey quasi-religious ceremonies moving home plate from the old stadium across the street to the new one. 
 This happens the same week that Mr. Bloomberg says he has to close health clinics, shut libraries one day a week, not hire a new class of cops and raise property taxes.
 The premise of these sports stadium investments, public officials say, is that economic development benefits will roll into the city over the decades -- $40 million over 40 years in the Bronx, for instance.
 Perhaps this will happen. 
 Or maybe it is a hallucination that is even flimsier than the assumptions that drove Wall Street to sink trillions into financial instruments that no one actually understood but all the right people agreed were worth tons of money. 
 Will families really be able to spend hundreds of dollars for tickets, hot dogs and parking spots? Will businesses still lay out tens of thousands of dollars for season tickets and luxury boxes and $16 glasses of sauvignon blanc in stadium clubs? There are signs that the air is going out of the sports industry bubble, as The Wall Street Journal reported recently. 
 No one is ready to say that the Yankees will turn into Lehman Brothers. But will the city really be able to collect all the rent it is owed from the garage that it is building for the team at a cost of $80,000 per parking spot? The garage operator gets to deduct some of the rent it owes the city if revenues don't make certain projections, says Bettina Damiani, project director at Good Jobs New York, a think tank that has done studies critical of the stadium subsidies. 
 The new Yankee Stadium, with all its architectural dazzle, will open in the spring; less certain is when the public parkland that Mr. Bloomberg gave to the team will be replaced. 
 The full reckoning on Mr. Bloomberg's judgment about these major investments of public funds will most likely not come for a few years, long after he has run for a third term as mayor by arguing that he has been the wisest and steadiest of stewards -- just the man for the city during hard financial times.
 E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MAYORS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WRITERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (68%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (68%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



335 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Candidates for Obama's Inner Circle TIMOTHY F. GEITHNER

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
Being considered for: Treasury secretary
Would bring to the job: A deep understanding of Wall Street and a close working relationship with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, his partner in the $700 billion bailout, along with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. As president of the New York Federal Reserve, Mr. Geithner has straddled Wall Street and Washington as a central player in trying to resolve the most significant financial crisis in decades. 
Is linked to Obama by: Being an aide to both Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, former Clinton Treasury secretaries who have been advising the Obama campaign.
In his own words: ''Most consequential choices involve shades of gray, and some fog is often useful in getting things done.'' (The Wall Street Journal, Feb. 20, 2007)
Used to work as: Director of the policy development and review department at the International Monetary Fund. One of his first jobs was at Kissinger Associates, where he worked directly for former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, researching a book. He was an assistant attache in the American Embassy in Tokyo before being assigned as a special assistant to Mr. Summers when he was Treasury under secretary.
Carries as potential baggage: Mr. Geithner was involved in most of the fateful decisions of the last year, including the move to rescue Bear Stearns and American International Group and the decision to let Lehman Brothers collapse. Those decisions have supporters and critics.
Biography: Born Aug. 18, 1961, in New York ... raised in the United States, Asia and Africa ... his father worked in government as an international development official before working at the Ford Foundation ... graduate of Dartmouth and Johns Hopkins, where he received a master's degree in international economics and East Asian studies ... married to Carole Sonnenfeld; they have a son and a daughter. STEPHEN LABATON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); HENRY PAULSON (73%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



336 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Election Inspires an Indigenous Party in New Zealand

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WELLINGTON, New Zealand 

 BODY:
The indigenous Maori minority approached New Zealand's elections on Saturday with a chance to secure the balance of power, inspired by Barack Obama's victory in the United States presidential election. Mr. Obama's election was a triumph over old stereotypes, which resonated especially for minority groups here. 
 ''I think that's a message to the whole world, that we can build on our past and move forward,'' said Pita Sharples, co-leader of the Maori Party, New Zealand's only all-indigenous political party. ''I think America has done that.''
 Maori account for 15 percent of New Zealand's population of 3.4 million, and they are among the country's poorest, worst housed and least healthy citizens, enduring higher than average unemployment rates.
 Although Mr. Obama's victory is not likely to have a direct effect on the election in New Zealand, where voting began Saturday morning at 2,600 polling stations, Maori political leaders said it was inspiring to anyone who supported politicians seeking to end divisions in society.
 A close contest between the two major parties -- Prime Minister Helen Clark's Labor Party and conservative John Key's Nationals -- could give the Maori Party the role of kingmaker and, with it, a major influence on government policy.
 Neither of the two major parties is likely to gain a majority in the 123-seat Parliament. A complex proportional voting system ensures that significant numbers of seats go to a handful of small parties.
 With the big parties having wooed smaller allies to their side, only the Maori Party remains unaligned.
 Public opinion polls have shown that the Nationals, with their allies, appear likely to win power for the first time in a decade. 
 But a surge by Labor on election day -- which Ms. Clark says could occur -- might hand the balance of power to the Maori Party, which holds four seats and is expected to retain them.
 Tariana Turia, a Maori Party co-leader, said the party was prepared to throw its support to either major party, depending on which one came up with the best deal.
 Any deal, Ms. Turia said, would ''come at a cost.''
 Among the Maori demands is greater control over government spending on indigenous programs to prevent waste.
 Foreign affairs and trade policies, including a ban on nuclear-powered ships entering New Zealand ports that has rankled the United States, are unlikely to change much no matter which side wins. The global financial crisis loomed large in the campaign, forcing the major parties to pare back promises of big tax cuts.
 Ms. Clark, 58, a former academic with a reputation for a serious, even dour, demeanor, has led the country since 1999, making her one of the world's longest-serving elected female leaders.
 Mr. Key, 47, a multimillionaire and a former foreign currency trader, tried to co-opt Mr. Obama's success, saying Americans had embraced the call for change. ''Whether that will pervade in New Zealand will only be found out Saturday night, but here's hoping,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); WOMEN (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); TAX LAW (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KEY (79%); HELEN CLARK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (79%) NEW ZEALAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



337 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: U.S. JOBLESS RATE HITS 14-YEAR HIGH; G.M. SEEKS BAILOUT

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Jackie Calmes, Jeff Zeleny, Michael M. Grynbaum and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a sign that American workers may face even more difficult times for many months to come, the nation's unemployment rate last month jumped to the highest level in 14 years as job losses mounted.
 Gloomy enough was word from the government on Friday that a fresh 240,000 American jobs disappeared in October, the 10th consecutive month of retrenchment. It brought the toll of lost jobs to 1.2 million for the year -- more than half in the last three months alone -- while the unemployment rate climbed to 6.5 percent. Worse was the sense that little could be done near term to alter this now-accelerating trajectory.
 President-elect Barack Obama, speaking at his first news conference since winning Tuesday's election, sounded resigned to inheriting a starkly troubled economy when he moves into the White House next year.
 ''It's not going to be quick, and it's not going to be easy to dig ourselves out of the hole that we're in,'' Mr. Obama said, calling for swift passage of spending measures aimed at stimulating the economy, including another extension of unemployment benefits. 
 But while experts said this could soften the damage, it was unlikely to change the fundamentals. They said the economy would probably lose several hundred thousand jobs a month well into next year, taking the unemployment rate to near 8 percent -- a level last seen a quarter-century ago.
 ''The economy is slipping deeper into a recessionary sinkhole that is getting broader,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. ''The layoffs are getting larger, and coming faster.''
 The health care industry, mining and public schools were the only sectors that showed more than modest growth last month. Otherwise, losses were deep and broad. Manufacturing jobs shrank by 90,000, construction by 49,000, retail by 38,000 and the financial industry by 24,000.
 The outlook is troubling in part because a new atmosphere of tightness in American banking could prevail for years, say analysts, crimping economic growth. Economists tend to think in terms of a natural cycle of commerce, with businesses investing aggressively when money is abundant, pulling back when times are lean, then jumping back in when fresh opportunities emerge. This time the money may be particularly slow to return. 
 The worst of the financial crisis seems to have been tamed, staving off the prospect of a cataclysm, but the underlying reality endures: after two decades in which economic growth has been powered by extraordinary surges of borrowed money -- a time of entrepreneurial machismo -- a new era of risk-avoidance appears at hand. 
 In Washington, and in capitals on multiple continents, governments are devising new regulatory approaches for banks aimed at reining in the sorts of reckless engineering that made capital abundant before bringing the global financial system to grave peril. Whatever the rules, surviving banks seem likely to operate conservatively.
 ''The economy's long-term, underlying growth prospects have been reduced, not forever but maybe for five or 10 years,'' said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''We're just not going to see the same sort of entrepreneurial spirit needed to generate those strong productivity gains. People have been so chastened, and they're so fearful, that they are going to take too few risks for quite some time before the psyche is healed.''
 The number of unemployed Americans leapt in October to 10.1 million -- the largest number since 1983. More than 22 percent of all unemployed people have been out of work for six months or longer -- another level not reached in a quarter-century.
 Only 32 percent of all unemployed people were drawing state benefit checks in October because of restrictions on eligibility. More than half of all unemployed people drew benefits in the 1950s, and about 45 percent received state checks during the last recession in 2001.
 ''It's a national shame,'' said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project in New York, which has been advocating an extension of unemployment benefits. ''We need to be helping these families avert financial disaster, and help make up for the loss of consumer demand, and the best way we can do that is to get people unemployment checks.''
 In South Plainfield, N.J., Ken Stelma, 49, has been out of work since January, when he lost his job as a customer care representative for a company that installed kitchens. Since then, he had been living on a $562 weekly unemployment check in place of his roughly $1,200 paycheck. But last month, his benefits ran out.
 He is relying on his girlfriend to pay his rent. His provisional health coverage -- a carryover from his last job -- will end this month because he can no longer afford the $250 monthly payments, leaving him with a tumor in his foot and no insurance. Next, he will stop paying his auto insurance policy.
 ''What am I going to do, drive illegally just to go out and look for a job?'' Mr. Stelma said. 
 Despite dozens of applications -- at Lowe's, Home Depot and at a home for the elderly -- he remains unemployed. ''I'll do anything,'' he said, adding that he was contemplating a job as an office mailroom clerk. ''We're getting desperate, man.''
 Democratic leaders in the House said this week they might seek swift adoption of $60 billion to $100 billion worth of measures that would extend unemployment benefits and food stamps, while aiding states whose tax revenue has plummeted. They would then pursue a broader package of spending measures that could reach $200 billion once Mr. Obama takes office. 
 The Bush administration has criticized Democratic proposals for immediate aid, raising the specter of a veto. On Friday, in a written statement, President Bush said that ''aggressive and decisive measures to address this situation'' had already been unleashed by the government.
 ''It will take time for these measures to have their full impact on an economy in which many Americans are struggling,'' Mr. Bush said.
 The jobs report reinforced how a potent assemblage of troubles -- plunging housing prices, tight credit and shrinking paychecks -- was combining to drag the economy down, depriving consumers of cash.
 All through the year, companies have hired tepidly and begun to lay off workers as their sales sagged, while cutting working hours for those on the payroll. That trend continued in October: the so-called underemployment rate -- which includes those who have lost jobs, people working part time for lack of full-time positions and those who have given up looking for work -- rose to 11.8 percent from 8.4 percent a year earlier.
 The pace of layoffs has accelerated in recent months. From January to August, the economy lost about 75,000 jobs a month. In September alone, 284,000 jobs vanished, the Labor Department now says, revising its initial estimate of 159,000.
 ''What you see now is this cascading of unemployment moving from hours cut to hiring freezes to layoffs,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''There's almost no economic activity out there that's going to generate jobs right now. This is the front edge of the deeper trough of the recession. It's going to get worse before it gets better.''
 On Friday, some 800 people lined up outside the Pierre Hotel on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan for a chance to apply for 200 to 250 jobs.
 ''So many people are going for the same jobs,'' said Antonio Santos, who lost a job in construction in August, as he stood amid the throng. ''It's like rolling the dice.''
 Wages have effectively shrunk for most workers, as rising costs for food and fuel have more than absorbed meager increases in pay, further crimping Americans' spending proclivities. In October, weekly wages for nonsupervisory workers grew just 2.9 percent from October 2007, less than the pace of inflation.
 ''Part of what I fear is a more entrenched insufficiency of demand,'' said Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. ''To the extent we're going to have a significantly tighter credit regime, it's going to take us longer to come out of this.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ken Stelma, of South Plainfield, N.J., has been out of work since January. The economy has lost 1.2 million jobs for the year, and the number of unemployed Americans has leapt to 10.1 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC STEINER/AGENCY NEW JERSEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: The Labor Picture in October: Hispanics can be of any race. Not seasonally adjusted. <7>People not working who say they would like to be. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details line graph. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



338 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Where Tuesday's Tide Was All Republican

BYLINE: By JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR

DATELINE: OKLAHOMA CITY 

 BODY:
The sign over the table at the Arrow Cafe in Tecumseh, a rural town southeast of this state capital, said, ''World's Problems Solved Here,'' and beneath it sat five older white Democrats with their coffee, talking politics in the golden afternoon light. Only two had voted for Barack Hussein Obama for president.
 ''I just couldn't vote for anyone who has Hussein in his name,'' joked Bob Cook, a 68-year-old poultry farmer, stretching and smiling. At the other end of the table, Jim White, 65, said he opposed abortion and so could not vote for a candidate like Mr. Obama, who favors abortion rights. 
 Among Oklahomans, Mr. Cook and Mr. White are hardly alone. Though the state's Democrats still outnumber its Republicans, you would never know it by looking at the election results. Oklahoma voters went for Senator John McCain by almost two to one, bucking the tide that swept Mr. Obama to the presidency. Not a single one of the state's 77 counties backed Mr. Obama, despite his endorsement by the popular Democratic governor, Brad Henry. 
 Oklahoma Republicans also made significant gains down the ticket. They picked up two seats in the State Senate and four in the Oklahoma House, giving them a majority in both houses of the Legislature for the first time in the state's century-long history. In addition, the party hung on to a United States Senate seat and solidly defeated challengers for the four Congressional seats held by Republicans.
 ''This is a consolidation of what's been going on for a long time,'' said Keith Gaddie, a political scientist at the University of Oklahoma. ''The systematic creep toward the Republican Party, and it's been happening for 30 years.''
 Perhaps nowhere else in the country is the conflict between Southern rural Democrats and the national Democratic Party more starkly evident than in Oklahoma, which has not voted for a Democratic presidential nominee since 1964. 
 ''Oklahoma Democrats, with very few exceptions, are the old-line white Southern Democrats,'' said David Ray, another political scientist at the university. ''They don't like liberals or liberalism.''
 Indeed, the state has a political landscape closely resembling that of the old solidly Democratic South, especially in its southeastern corner, known as Little Dixie, where many Southerners settled after the Civil War. When conservatives of the Old South began abandoning the party decades ago, Oklahoma's Democrats lagged behind the historical trend. Further, the state has relatively small black and Hispanic populations, and so the Democrats did not absorb as many new voters from those groups as in the states of the old Confederacy.
 These days Oklahoma Democrats dread running for local office in presidential election years, for fear of being associated with liberal nominees at the top of the ticket.
 ''Being liberal in Oklahoma, with the exception of a few legislative districts, will not get you elected,'' said State Representative Joe Dorman, a conservative Democrat.
 Ivan Holmes, chairman of the Oklahoma Democratic Party, said there had been no ballot initiative or outcry on any state or local issue that would explain why conservatives of both parties rejected many Democratic candidates this week. 
 But, Mr. Holmes said, Mr. Obama was badly hurt in the state by rumors that he was not a Christian, that he sympathized with terrorists and that he would take away people's firearms, a buzz that could not have helped Democrats down the ticket.
 In addition, Senator James M. Inhofe, the Republican incumbent, whipped up anti-liberal sentiment in his successful race against a Democratic challenger, State Senator Andrew Rice, accusing him of being ''too liberal for Oklahoma'' in opposing a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage and voting against tax cuts.
 Another Republican, State Representative Sally Kern, who recently declared that homosexuality was a greater threat to the nation than terrorism, easily won re-election.
 But Mr. Gaddie said that perhaps the most important factor in Mr. McCain's strong showing here was religion. An Edison/Mitofsky exit poll found that more than half of Oklahoma voters identified themselves as evangelical Christians and that a heavy majority of them had voted for Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Gaddie, himself a pollster as well as a college professor, said: ''A question we always ask in our polls is 'How often do you attend church services?' If a Democrat is not going to vote for a Democrat, they are a frequent church attender.''
 Another advantage for Mr. McCain was that the state's economy, based mostly on the oil and gas industry, has been buffered somewhat from the national economic slowdown. Unemployment remains low, the housing market stable. 
 For all of that, the Democratic Party is far from dead in Oklahoma, especially in the state's southeastern section, where, despite the social conservatism, many people still talk about the New Deal and revere Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
 Democrats currently hold not only the governorship but also most other statewide offices. And rural voters often register as Democrats because the party's primaries for sheriff and county commissioner continue to be more important than the general elections for those posts.
 But the blows of the recent past have been unmistakable. For the last 14 years, the state's two senators, and four of its five representatives, have been Republicans. Riding President Bush's coattails, Republicans also won control of the Oklahoma House in 2004. Now they have won the State Senate. 
 ''If America voted for change, Oklahoma voted for reform,'' State Senator Glenn Coffee, the Republican who is soon to be majority leader, said of Tuesday's elections. ''For a long time you had a single-party state.''
 At the Arrow Cafe, several lifelong Democrats said they could remember a time 25 years ago when no one would admit to being a Republican, for fear of being ostracized. These days, few people advertise that they are Democrats, though Democrats outnumber registered Republicans in the county by two to one.
 Reflecting on the Oklahoma vote in the presidential election just past, Gordon Belshe, a 67-year-old manufacturer of trailer homes who said he had voted for Mr. Obama, suggested that racism had played a role.
 ''I still think we had a lot of antiblack votes in this state,'' Mr. Belshe said. ''I had several people ask me how I could vote for him.''
 And Mr. White, the man who had said he could not vote for Mr. Obama because of the abortion issue, also acknowledged that he would not have been comfortable voting for a black candidate. ''I'm prejudiced,'' he whispered. ''This is a problem I have to personally work through.''
 In truth, it is impossible to tell if racism was a significant factor in Mr. Obama's poor showing here. According to a statewide exit poll conducted by Edison/Mitofsky, he got the support of 59 percent of white Democrats in the state, compared with the 84 percent he garnered from white Democrats nationwide. Four years ago, however, Senator John Kerry fared little better among white Oklahoma Democrats, getting only 62 percent. 
 In any event, most of the older Democrats who stopped by the cafe the other day said Mr. Obama's race had had nothing to do with their decision to support Mr. McCain. 
 Mr. Cook, the poultry farmer, said Mr. Obama had been insufficiently religious for him. ''He don't believe like a lot of us do,'' he said. 
 And Bill Straughan, a 70-year-old former civilian employee at nearby Tinker Air Force Base, said Mr. Obama ''doesn't have any real resume.'' 
 ''McCain was a prisoner of war longer than Obama was in the Senate,'' Mr. Straughan said. ''The last reason I would not vote for him was because he's black.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans in Oklahoma, but that was far from evident in the elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID OLIVER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Chris Benge, Oklahoma House speaker, and Glenn Coffee, Senate Republican leader, celebrated control of both houses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUE OGROCKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A17) CHART: The Country Shifts One Way, Oklahoma the Other: Though most of the country voted more Democratic this year, 65 of the 77 counties in Oklahoma shifted more Republican, giving Senator John McCain one of the biggest margins in any state. The biggest shifts were in counties that have more registered Democrats than Republicans.(Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Associated Press (2008 results)
 Oklahoma Election Board) Chart details bar graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); ABORTION (70%); POULTRY (70%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); BRAD HENRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



339 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Europe Tempers Hopes for Summit Meeting

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Hoping to force President-elect Barack Obama to act quickly, European governments on Friday called for development within the next 100 days of a plan to overhaul the global financial system.
 European Union leaders want an international summit meeting scheduled for next week in Washington to establish a swift timetable for strengthening the International Monetary Fund, reshaping financial governance and imposing greater regulation on the sector.
 While seeking to pressure Mr. Obama to address the issue early in his term, the 27 European nations whose leaders met here in Brussels nonetheless watered down several French proposals that would have pressed the United States and other members of the G-20 rich and emerging economies to agree to a series of changes when they meet Nov. 15. 
 European expectations of the Washington meeting had been high. Several leaders have compared it to Bretton Woods, the international conference that created the post-World War II financial structures.
 But with the United States to be represented by President Bush, and only limited discussion with leaders of emerging economies, Europeans now accept that agreement on a range of principles -- and a timetable -- is the most that can be achieved next week.
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, which holds the European Union's rotating presidency, said he had spoken with Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama and added that the world ''could not wait'' until the inauguration of the next president on Jan. 20 before taking action.
 Meanwhile, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain highlighted the need for governments to bolster the real economy and try to prevent a deep recession from taking hold. ''Coordinated action on interest rates should be complemented by action on fiscal policy,'' Mr. Brown said.
 The Washington meeting, Mr. Brown added, will come at a ''decisive moment for the world economy,'' adding that ''the decisions we take in the next few months will reshape our world for a decade or more.''
 European nations have conducted intense diplomacy in the last week, both about who should go to Washington next week and how detailed a plan Europeans should push.
 Mr. Sarkozy presented the summit meeting as an opportunity for Europeans to mold the debate because the era of the dollar as the only global currency had ''come to an end.''
 The agreement Friday, however, was significantly less specific than an earlier draft paper considered by European finance ministers.
 An overhaul of the International Monetary Fund has, however, emerged as a central preoccupation among European leaders. Mr. Sarkozy said there was not yet consensus among Europeans about how far the remodeling of the monetary fund should go, however.
 Some nations see the monetary fund as the central bank of the central banks, others as the repository of a large stabilization fund and others as an agency that would warn nations if their approach was threatening international stability, Mr. Sarkozy said.
 The 27 nations agreed, however, that the monetary fund should become the ''pivot of a renewed international system'' and should coordinate more closely with the Financial Stability Forum, which aims to promote international financial stability through information exchange and cooperation in supervision and surveillance.
 Some diplomats were skeptical that the United States would agree to commit itself to specific measures during a time of political transition.
 The principles put forward by the Europeans on Friday include regulation, ''or at least oversight,'' of all financial institutions, accountability and transparency, new approaches to risk assessment and a central role for the monetary fund.
 A reference to ''international economic governance'' disappeared from the draft text after a spat between France and Germany. The government in Berlin took the view that this might imply too great a role for the European Union in economic affairs at the expense of national governments and an independent European Central Bank.
 Britain made sure that a call to harmonize capital adequacy requirements was deleted. It opposes some of the details of a proposal to legislate in this area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CURRENCIES (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); WORLD WAR II (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); GORDON BROWN (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



340 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: 75 Years Later, a Nation Hopes for Another F.D.R.

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''We are facing the greatest economic challenge of our lifetime, and we're going to have to act swiftly to resolve it.''
 So said Barack Obama on Friday in his first postelection news conference, a pretty good sign that the president-elect had been brushing up on his presidential history. Seventy-five years ago, the last time the country was this close to economic abyss, Franklin D. Roosevelt delivered his famous inaugural, the one where he uttered those immortal words, ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.''
 But as a Newsweek columnist, Jonathan Alter, who wrote ''The Defining Moment,'' a book about Roosevelt's first election and early presidency, pointed out to me the other day, that great line was buried in most news stories about the speech. Stories focused instead on another phrase F.D.R. used: ''action, and action now.'' In 1933, after three years of incompetence from the administration of Herbert Hoover, that is what Americans most yearned to hear. And on Friday, when Mr. Obama vowed, within the first five minutes of his remarks, to ''act swiftly,'' he too was offering the same message to a country every bit as receptive. 
 In the news conference, the president-elect laid out his short-term economic agenda: a stimulus package to prod the economy that he hopes will pass before he even takes office; extended unemployment benefits and other relief measures for people who are struggling; and an effort to stem the rising tide of foreclosures, probably led by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which has been pressing the Bush administration for weeks to sign off on a plan it devised ages ago. 
 Mr. Obama made it plain that he would not let the American auto industry die. He wants to provide economic assistance to state and local governments that have been hurt by the financial crisis. And he promised a review of the bailout program ''to ensure that the government's efforts are achieving their central goal of stabilizing financial markets while protecting taxpayers, helping homeowners and not unduly rewarding the management of financial firms that are receiving government assistance.'' (Take that, Wall Street!)
 No specifics, not on Friday, anyway. Mr. Obama is surely being inundated with ideas about how to best achieve his goals from his prominent economic advisers, which he will have to sort out in his own mind. No Treasury secretary announcement either. He made it clear that he was not going to be stampeded into making a choice before he's ready.
 All very reasonable -- understandable, even. But I couldn't help feeling just a little let down that he didn't have anything more specific to offer, or anything more inspirational. Throughout the news conference, Mr. Obama projected a kind of crisp competence -- an executive figuring out a practical plan of attack -- rather than presenting himself as he had so often during the campaign, as an inspirational leader. And in my momentary letdown, I realized that I had been hoping to see, even this early, something that many other Americans are also wishing for. ... I was hoping to see the new F.D.R. Maybe we will yet. We sure could use him right about now.
 Is the country today in as much trouble as it was in the winter of 1933, when Franklin Roosevelt was sworn in as president? Of course not. Back then, unemployment stood at a staggering 26 percent. On Friday, by contrast, the government reported that the October unemployment rate was 6.5 percent -- terrible by our standards but benign by the standards of the Depression. From its peak last year, the stock market has declined 35 percent. In 1933 the Dow Jones average was down 75 percent from its 1929 peak. There were many more bank failures, far more devastating foreclosures, especially among farmers, and much greater hardships during the Great Depression than there are now. Really, it's not even close.
 Still there are many important similarities as well. One is the response to the crisis by the outgoing presidents, Herbert Hoover and George W. Bush. Hoover's primary method of combating the crisis was to make large government loans to the banks, the railroads, the insurance companies and other industrial giants. When that didn't do the trick, he was lost. As people began standing in line to pull their savings out of banks -- creating devastating bank runs -- government officials pleaded with Hoover to declare a bank holiday. But he couldn't pull the trigger.
 Hoover established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which made loans to tax-starved state governments. But as the historian Michael E. Parrish points out in his classic work, ''Anxious Decades,'' ''state governments had to take a virtual pauper's oath'' to get any money. Hoover would only approve public works projects that would pay for themselves -- which severely limited the kinds of projects that could get government financing. And for ideological reasons, he opposed direct federal aid to the unemployed. Mr. Parrish describes the Hoover administration response to the crisis as ''pathetically inadequate.''
 Sound familiar? The Bush administration has also attacked the crisis almost entirely by focusing on the banking system. It has made huge loans and taken equity stakes -- but for reasons largely based on ideology, it has refused to demand anything in return. And the Bush administration has been every bit as reluctant to help individual homeowners as the Hoover administration ever was. Its unwillingness to help ordinary citizens is appalling -- not just because it is so callous but because the crisis won't end until housing prices stabilize and foreclosures decline.
 In his news conference, President-elect Obama seemed to waffle when asked whether he would work with the current administration to help solve the crisis. As it turns out, Roosevelt waffled, too. In the end, he kept his distance, even as the banking crisis grew worse. That decision made him temporarily unpopular, but his logic was sound -- he didn't want to do anything that would tie him to the policies of a discredited administration. It is quite possible that Mr. Obama will make a similar political calculation.
 The minute Roosevelt took office, though, he revved into action, just as he had promised. In that first 100 days, he pushed through an astonishing 15 pieces of legislation. He established the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to refinance homes. He created other agencies that took bad mortgages off the balance sheets of banks. He consolidated farm assistance programs and used them to help farmers avoid foreclosure. He showed that the government would help Main Street as well as Wall Street. Mr. Obama is going to have to do the same.
 As for the banking crisis, Roosevelt immediately ordered a bank holiday. When he reopened the healthiest banks after eight days, he decided to give a speech first. That was his first fireside chat.
 Jim Farley, then one of F.D.R.'s closest aides, later declared that ''no other talk in history ever called forth such a wave of spontaneous enthusiasm and cooperation.'' Mr. Alter told me when the banks reopened, Americans lined up to put money back into their savings accounts -- because Roosevelt had convinced them that it was their patriotic duty.
 Over and over again, F.D.R. would do that: he would move people to realize they were all in this together. He did it during the Depression, and he did it again when America entered World War II. 
 ''He was a genius at using common sense, down-to-earth Christian arguments for helping out neighbors who were in trouble,'' Charles Peters, the founding editorof The Washington Monthly, said the other day. Mr. Peters was a young boy during the Depression, and when I worked for him three decades ago, he used to regale me with stories of him and his parents sitting by the family radio in Charleston, W.Va., hanging on F.D.R.'s every word. They drew inspiration from those talks, which Mr. Peters can still recall.
 The question about Mr. Obama is whether he can do the same. Yes, times are not as tough as they were in the 1930s, but they're still pretty tough, and there is a tendency, in this atomized culture, for people to fend for themselves, even at the expense of their neighbors. 
 I've seen that on my blog, for instance, where readers have reacted angrily to my suggestion that we find ways to keep people from being evicted from their homes. It is not fair, they reply, that their neighbors who were greedy during the bubble should get a taxpayer bailout while those who weren't get nothing. Even when I point out that foreclosures hurt everyone's property values, they are unmoved. The seeming injustice overpowers their rational selves.
 And you know what? It is unjust. But there is a larger good at stake: the economic health of the country. Mr. Obama's task, like Roosevelt's, is to persuade everyone that we are better served by helping our neighbors than by watching them drown in a sea of debt. He needs to draw out our best selves. During the campaign, certainly, he showed he had that capacity. Now he has to put it to good use.
 A few days ago, I spoke to a Harvard professor named Robert D. Putnam, author of ''Bowling Alone,'' which is about the loss of community in American life. He felt strongly that the Obama campaign had already begun to create a larger sense of community, especially among young people. It turns out that Mr. Putnam has known Mr. Obama for awhile, so toward the end of our interview, I asked him about the Obama-Roosevelt comparisons.
 ''I think Obama has it within his power to do the Roosevelt thing,'' he said. Let's hope he's right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Barack Obama met with his Transition Economic Advisory Board on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Franklin Roosevelt's first fireside chat in 1933 created spontaneous enthusiasm and cooperation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); WRITERS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); FORECLOSURE (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



341 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate at 14-Year High After October Losses

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The American economy lost another 240,000 jobs in October, the government reported Friday, as cash-strapped consumers pulled back and businesses hunkered down, intensifying the distress gripping much of the country.
 The unemployment rate spiked to 6.5 percent from 6.1 percent, the highest level since 1994. Many analysts now expect unemployment will reach 8 percent by the middle of next year.
 Coupled with revisions to September's data -- which now show a loss of 284,000 jobs, down from an initial estimate of 159,000 -- the economy has shed 1.2 million jobs since the beginning of the year. More than half the job losses have been in the last three months.
 ''The economy is slipping deeper into a recessionary sinkhole that is getting broader,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. ''The layoffs are getting larger, and coming faster. We're likely to see at least another six months of more jobs reports like this.'' 
 The latest evidence of widening economic pain seemed certain to inject more urgency into the debate over another round of government spending aimed at stimulating growth. It amplified the sense that President-elect Barack Obama will inherit an unenviable list of challenges. 
 Mr. Obama has in recent months called for another package of so-called stimulus spending initiatives. Democratic leaders in the House said this week that they would seek swift passage of $60 billion to $100 billion worth of measures that would extend unemployment benefits and food stamps, while aiding states whose tax revenues have plummeted. They would then pursue a broader package of measures that could reach $200 billion after Mr. Obama takes office in January. 
 The Bush administration has criticized Democratic proposals for immediate aid, raising the specter of a veto.
 On Friday, President Bush, in a written statement, acknowledged the latest jobs report as a sign of ''difficult challenges confronting our economy.'' But he added that a series of ''aggressive and decisive measures to address this situation'' already unleashed by the government will eventually provide relief.
 ''It will take time for these measures to have their full impact on an economy in which many Americans are struggling,'' Mr. Bush said.
 The number of unemployed Americans increased by 603,000 in October to 10.1 million -- the largest number since 1983. More than 22 percent of all unemployed people have been out of work for six months or longer -- another level not reached in a quarter-century.
 Only 32 percent of all unemployed people were drawing state benefit checks in October because of restrictions on eligibility for part-time workers and those who were not in their jobs long enough to qualify. More than half of all unemployed people drew benefits in the 1950s, and about 45 percent received state checks during the last recession in 2001.
 ''It's a national shame, the state of our safety net,'' said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project in New York. ''We need to be helping these families avert financial disaster, and help make up for the loss of consumer demand, and the best way we can do that is to get people unemployment checks.''
 In South Plainfield, N.J., Ken Stelma, 49, has been out of work since January, when he lost his job as a customer care representative for a company that installs kitchens. Since then, he has been living mostly on a $562 weekly unemployment check, in place of his old roughly $1,200 paycheck.
 Despite dozens of applications -- from sales positions at Lowe's and Home Depot to a cooking job at a home for the elderly -- Mr. Stelma, remains without work. 
 Last month, Mr. Stelma's unemployment benefits ran out. Now, he is relying on his girlfriend to pay his rent. This month, his provisional health coverage -- a carryover from his best job -- will end, because he can no longer afford the $250 a month. That will leave him with a tumor in his foot and no insurance. Next, he figures he will have to stop paying his auto insurance.
 ''What am I going to, drive illegally just to go out and look for a job?'' Mr. Stelma said.
 The latest monthly snapshot of the jobs market reinforced how the economy remains gripped by a potent combination of troubles -- plunging housing prices, tight credit and shrinking paychecks -- with all three in a downward spiral. 
 Companies have been hiring tepidly and laying off workers throughout the year, as business has slowed, while cutting working hours for those on the payroll. That trend continued in October: The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes people working part-time for lack of full-time positions and those who have given up looking for work -- rose to 11.8 percent, up from 8.4 percent a year earlier.
 ''What you see now is this cascading of unemployment moving from hours cut to hiring freezes to layoffs,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''At this point, we have a very toxic combination of all of the above. There's almost no economic activity out there that's going to generate jobs right now. This is the front edge of the deeper trough of the recession. It's going to get worse before it gets better.''
 Wages have effectively shrunk for most workers, as rising costs for food and fuel have more than absorbed meager increases in pay. In October, weekly wages for rank-and-file workers -- those not in supervisory or managerial positions -- grew 2.9 percent from October 2007, almost certainly below the rate of inflation.
 The health care industry and public schools were the only sectors that showed more than modest growth last month. Otherwise, losses were deep and broad. Some 90,000 manufacturing jobs disappeared. So did 49,000 construction jobs. Retail lost 38,000 jobs lost in October. The financial industry shed 24,000.
 All of this came on the heels of the revised September data showing that 284,000 jobs were lost that month -- the worst toll since November 2001, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
 Fewer people working translates into less spending power: Consumer spending dropped between July and September -- the first quarterly decline in 17 years -- further eroding the motivation for businesses to hire.
 Recent days have offered fresh indications of trouble. On Thursday, major retailers reported a sharp pullback in sales in October, presaging what is likely to be the weakest holiday spending in many years.
 The annual pace of auto sales fell off in October, down 15 percent compared to September, according to analysis from Goldman Sachs.
 The widely watched Institute for Supply Management survey fell in October to depths last seen 26 years ago, reflecting shrinking industrial activity and suggesting weakening demand for goods as the economy slows. 
 Banks continued to tighten their purse strings in October, according to a survey of senior loan officers conducted by the Federal Reserve. Economists construed the survey as an indication that even healthy companies and many households were having difficulty securing capital, further braking the economy and making prospects more difficult for American workers.
 Many economists expect this picture to worsen. Though a $700 billion taxpayer-financed bailout has staved off fears of an imminent collapse and restored some order to the financial system, it has not persuaded banks to lend freely. Credit remains tight for businesses and homeowners.
 ''To the extent we're going to have a significantly tighter credit regime,'' said Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. ''it's going to take us longer to come out of this.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (71%); VETO (71%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



342 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: British Premier Rides Higher As Labor Wins a By-Election

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Only weeks after predictions of his political demise were making headlines, Prime Minister Gordon Brown bounced back with a by-election victory that had British political commentators revising forecasts on Friday of how the governing Labor Party might fare in the next general election. 
 The Labor candidate in the Scottish constituency of Glenrothes won the seat by a margin of more than 6,000 votes, defeating a challenge by the Scottish National Party. 
 The nationalists, with a program calling for Scotland's independence, had been on a long winning streak and were predicting victory in the by-election right up to the voting on Thursday. 
 Local factors played a strong role, prompting caution in extrapolating wider lessons for Labor's prospects in a general election that might be held as late as June 2010. 
 The Glenrothes constituency, in a former coal-mining area, borders Mr. Brown's district of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, and Mr. Brown, a Scot who is a strong advocate of Scotland's remaining part of Britain, broke with past practice of prime ministers by campaigning personally. 
 But the most powerful factor for Labor appeared to have been Mr. Brown's steadying role in the economic crisis sweeping Britain. The 57-year-old prime minister, who was finance minister for 10 years until stepping up to the top job 17 months ago, has been widely credited in recent weeks for taking steps to stabilize Britain's banks that have influenced similar measures in Europe and the United States. 
 Winning the by-election easily, after four successive by-election defeats since Mr. Brown became prime minister, buoyed Labor officials, who had already been scenting a wider upturn in the party's fortunes after Senator Barack Obama's victory on Tuesday in the United States presidential race. 
 Senior officials of the Brown government have spoken of a shared ''progressive agenda'' with Mr. Obama on a wide range of issues and suggested that Senator John McCain's defeat could have implications for conservative politics in Britain.
 Labor's hopes of defeating the Conservatives in a general election, which Mr. Brown can call at a time of his choosing, have also been raised by recent national opinion polls. After months of trailing the Conservatives by margins of 20 percentage points and more, Labor has seen its deficit in polls halved as the economic crisis has worsened. 
 Mr. Brown lost no time in proclaiming the Glenrothes result a vote of confidence in his government's handling of the banking crisis. ''What I have learned from this election is that people are prepared to support governments that will help people through the downturn and offer real help to people,'' a smiling but restrained Mr. Brown said Friday. 
 But Mr. Brown dismissed suggestions that he might call national elections as early as this spring. Many in his party say they do not expect a vote before the fall of 2009 and perhaps as late as the spring of 2010. 
 The prime minister visited the Glenrothes constituency three times during the by-election campaign, and his wife, Sarah, a mother of two young children who has only recently taken an active political role, campaigned there aggressively, turning the vote into something of a personal referendum. 
 The Labor candidate in Glenrothes, Lindsay Roy, 59, who is the headmaster of the secondary school in the town of Kirkcaldy that Mr. Brown attended as a boy, won 19,946 votes, against 13,209 votes for the Scottish Nationalist candidate, Peter Grant.
 As expected, the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, the two major political parties that will face Labor in a general election but that have scant support in economically depressed areas of Scotland, finished distant runners-up. 
 Alex Salmond, the nationalists' leader, is a former economist whose claims that Scotland could prosper as an independent country were undercut, at least in the short run, when Scotland's two main banks, the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Halifax Bank of Scotland, turned to the Brown government 's bailout plan to survive.
 Some British newspapers were quick to interpret the Glenrothes result as a major boost for Mr. Brown. 
 ''Against the odds, Brown bounce is back,'' a headline in The Times of London declared.
 ''Six weeks ago there were huge questions over whether he would lead Labor into the next election. Now there are none,'' a political analyst for the paper, Philip Webster, wrote. But other commentators have warned that the ''Brown bounce,'' as British tabloids have called it, could be brief. 
 The Brown government itself has warned that the recession in Britain could be deep and prolonged, and a range of financial institutions, including the International Monetary Fund, have warned that Britain, after an explosion of government deficits and consumer debt during Labor's years in power, is headed for a deeper downturn than other leading industrial countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Gordon Brown in Brussels on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOMINIQUE FAGET/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); BYELECTIONS (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MINES & MINING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BANK FAILURES (64%); COAL MINING (53%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



343 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Byrd, Accepting Need for Change, Will Quit Powerful Senate Post

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, and the senior member of the Senate, agreed on Friday to relinquish his chairmanship of the Appropriations Committee, as Democrats and President-elect Barack Obama prepare to grapple with the gravest economic crisis since the Great Depression. 
 Mr. Byrd, who will be 91 this month, is a revered figure in the Senate but has had a series of health problems and hospitalizations in recent months. His Democratic colleagues increasingly feared that he was no longer up to the task of running the Senate's most powerful committee on a daily basis. 
 Persuading him to step aside, however, presented a delicate task, and any effort to remove him forcibly, which would have required a vote by the Democratic caucus, could well have failed. 
 In the end, though, Mr. Byrd spared the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, from having to raise the issue. Without so much as requesting a meeting, Mr. Byrd, who served as majority leader himself for a dozen years, gave Mr. Reid 15 minutes' notice before issuing a statement on Friday afternoon relinquishing his post. 
 Mr. Byrd said that the time had come for new leadership, and that he would turn over the reins of the Appropriations Committee to Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, who is next in line and who turned 84 in September. Mr. Byrd will remain a member of the committee and will continue to serve as the Senate's president pro tempore. 
 ''I have been privileged to be a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee for 50 years and to have chaired the committee for 10 years, during a time of enormous change in our great country, both culturally and politically,'' Mr. Byrd said in his statement, in which he also praised the election of Mr. Obama. 
 ''A new day has dawned in Washington, and that is a good thing,'' he said. ''For my part, I believe that it is time for a new day at the top of the Senate Appropriations Committee.''
 Aides said that Mr. Byrd was well-aware of the chatter among his colleagues and that he had made the decision of his own accord. Mr. Byrd, a fierce defender of Senate history and tradition, was also said to be uninterested in the manufactured title of chairman emeritus, which some Democrats had proposed as an incentive for him to step aside. 
 Mr. Reid issued a statement praising the West Virginia senator who is well-known for directing untold billions in federal spending to his home state over the decades. 
 ''Last year, Senator Byrd cast his 18,000th Senate vote, by far a record in the history of our institution,'' Mr. Reid said. ''Every day of his Senate career has been dedicated to strengthening the republic that he loves with all his heart.'' 
 Mr. Byrd who is serving his ninth term in the Senate, gets around the Capitol in a wheelchair, but he continues to be a formidable force and one of the most eloquent voices in the chamber, often delivering impassioned speeches that hearken to an earlier era when rhetorical flourishes were a matter of deep pride and when senators spent far more time listening to one another in person rather than monitoring floor proceedings from their office by watching C-Span. 
 He is one of the few senators who still enjoy engaging in colloquies with other lawmakers and who will shout out encouraging words when he agrees with someone else's remarks. 
 In one of the funniest interactions in the Senate over the previous year, Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, barked a call for order in the Senate. And Mr. Byrd parked at his desk in his wheelchair, without looking up, cried out, ''Who said that?'' 
 ''I did,'' replied Mr. Bunning, who, before entering politics was a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies. 
 ''Who are you?'' Mr. Byrd demanded, then barely waiting for a reply said, ''Oh, you. You are a great baseball man.'' 
 The comment incensed Mr. Bunning, who growled: ''I have the same rights as you. I am a senator.'' 
 ''Yeah, man,'' Mr. Byrd shot back, drawing out his words slowly, in a mocking tone. ''You're a senator. Yes. You. Are.''
 As with other leadership changes in Congress, Mr. Byrd's decision to relinquish the Appropriations Committee post will have a domino effect. Mr. Inouye, in replacing him, will give up his chairmanship of the commerce committee. 
 That in turn creates a choice for Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, who is next in line for commerce, but who is also chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence. 
 After Mr. Rockefeller, the next up for commerce would be Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. But Mr. Kerry is also next up for the chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee, which is being vacated by Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mr. Kerry has also been mentioned for a position in the Obama administration. 
 Either way, Mr. Kerry will give up his current chairmanship of the Small Business Committee. On Thursday, Mr. Reid suggested that post as a possibility for Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who many Senate Democrats want to punish for his zealous support of Senator John McCain, the Republican candidate for president. 
 Mr. Lieberman, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats, is currently chairman of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. He wants to remain an ally of the Democrats, but he rejected Mr. Reid's suggestion as unacceptable, aides said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, will step down as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (93%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); HARRY REID (79%); DANIEL INOUYE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



344 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in His New Role as President-Elect, Calls for Stimulus Package

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Chicago, and Peter Baker from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama approached the lectern Friday for his first news conference since winning the election. He smiled as he looked out at a large retinue assembled from around the world, and paused for a moment before saying, ''Oh wow.''
 With that, Mr. Obama began the first nationally televised appearance of his new role. Since Election Day, he had been seen only in faraway shots as he dashed from the gym or walked to a meeting. But when he arrived at a hotel ballroom here, flanked by a team of economic advisers, Americans caught their first glimpse of the 44th president at work. 
 ''I do not underestimate the enormity of the task that lies ahead,'' Mr. Obama said, his voice slow and controlled. ''Some of the choices that we make are going to be difficult. And I have said before and I will repeat again: It is not going to be quick and it is not going to be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in.''
 Mr. Obama called on Congress and the Bush administration to pass an economic stimulus package. If an agreement cannot be reached this month in the lame-duck Congressional session, he said, it will be his chief goal when he takes office on Jan. 20. 
 He said it was an ''urgent priority'' to extend unemployment insurance benefits for workers who could not find jobs in the bleak economy. He also said he would give aid to states, create new jobs and move forward with his tax-cut plans for middle-class families.
 The session was limited to about 20 minutes, and Mr. Obama took nine questions. His answers were purposefully crisp -- and, at times, laced with humor -- and his presentation stood in contrast to previous news conferences, where he would often devote much more time to a question.
 Mr. Obama fielded a variety of questions, including one about the kind of dog he would get for his two daughters in the White House. (''Obviously, a lot of shelter dogs are mutts like me,'' he said.) He said that he was studying the writings of Abraham Lincoln and that he had spoken to previous presidents. 
 ''I've spoken to all of them that are living,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I didn't want to get into a Nancy Reagan thing about, you know, doing any seances.''
 A few hours later, Mr. Obama was on the telephone with Mrs. Reagan to ''apologize for the careless and offhanded remark.'' A spokeswoman for Mr. Obama, Stephanie Cutter, said he and Mrs. Reagan had a warm conversation.
 But the overall tone of the news conference reflected the challenges Mr. Obama faces.
 Mr. Obama said he would defer to President Bush and his economic team on major decisions in the next 74 days, saying, ''The United States has only one government and one president at a time.'' 
 He pledged to find ways to help the struggling automobile industry and invited Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan to join his economic advisory board.
 Mr. Obama, who stood a few feet in front of an array of economic advisers as well as Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Rahm Emanuel, the new White House chief of staff, offered no new specifics about what he intended to do to curb the economic crisis. But the stagecraft of the news conference, held after a closed-door meeting of Mr. Obama's economic advisers, was intended to show that he was hard at work in search of solutions. 
 Mr. Obama offered little guidance on how he wanted the Treasury Department to carry out the $700 billion government plan to stabilize the financial markets, saying only that he would review any decisions made by the Bush administration. He suggested that he intended to move ahead with his campaign pledge to take away tax cuts for upper-income Americans, but seemed to leave a narrow window of room to adjust his proposal.
 ''I think that the plan that we've put forward is the right one,'' Mr. Obama said when asked if the wealthiest Americans would pay more taxes next year. ''But obviously over the next several weeks and months, we're going to be continuing to take a look at the data and see what's taking place in the economy as a whole.''
 Mr. Obama's imprecise campaign pledges have caused some confusion about when he would repeal the Bush tax cuts on Americans making more than $250,000 a year.
 The tax cuts, by law, are set to expire at the end of 2010, but Mr. Obama has said he will repeal them sooner and use the revenues to offset the costs of his health care plan. He left unclear whether a tax bill signed into law next year would make the repeal effective retroactively for all of 2009 as well as 2010. 
 In the days before the election, Mr. Obama's economic advisers said he would not propose retroactive repeal, but would make it effective Jan. 1, 2010. But Mr. Obama did not say that during the campaign, even as his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, repeatedly criticized him as proposing to raise taxes immediately, in an economic downturn. Mr. Obama did not clarify his intentions Friday.
 The news conference was held in a windowless ballroom of the Hilton Chicago, only steps from Grant Park, where Mr. Obama delivered his victory speech on election night. The session carried the trappings of an official event, with eight American flags lined against blue drapes, and a freshly made seal on the lectern: ''The Office of the President Elect.''
 Asked how he would respond to the letter of congratulations from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, Mr. Obama said he would review the letter and respond in an appropriate fashion. He said any nuclear ambitions by Iran were ''unacceptable.''
 Mr. Obama seemed at ease, smiling more than he did during many stretches of his presidential campaign. When Lynn Sweet of The Chicago Sun-Times rose to ask a question, Mr. Obama asked why her arm was in a sling.
 ''I cracked my shoulder running to your speech on election night,'' Ms. Sweet said. 
 ''Oh, no,'' Mr. Obama replied with a smile. ''I think that was the only major incident during the entire Grant Park celebration.''
 Mr. Obama is spending the weekend in Chicago, aides said, hoping to get a brief respite after a 22-month campaign. But his transition team was still working to put together a national security team in relatively short order.
 Two advisers said Friday that a possible candidate for secretary of state was former Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, a confidant of Mr. Obama. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, with Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and a group of economic advisers at a news conference in Chicago on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); FAMILY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (66%); DOGS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



345 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Obama Joke By Premier Has Italy In an Uproar

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
Italians never quite know whether to laugh or cry at Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. But many reacted with incredulity and outrage after the prime minister, visiting Moscow on Thursday, amiably called the first African-American president-elect in United States history ''young, handsome and suntanned.''
 Mr. Berlusconi made the remark while meeting President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, saying that Senator Barack Obama's good looks, his youth and his so-called suntan were ''all the qualities'' for Mr. Medvedev and the future president to ''develop a good working relationship.'' 
 Many Italian newspapers gave the comment nearly as much front-page attention as Mr. Obama's victory itself. The journalist Curzio Maltese wrote in the center-left La Repubblica that ''bookmakers wouldn't even take bets'' on how long it would take for Mr. Berlusconi to let slip another of his famous gaffes. ''Mr. Berlusconi never fails to live up to our worst expectations.'' 
 Mr. Maltese added that just when Mr. Obama's victory was ''inspiring billions of people'' to consider ''democracy, the most extraordinary triumph of humanity after centuries of bloodshed and intolerance,'' Mr. Berlusconi instead contributed ''a miserable, vulgar and racist remark, for which he didn't even have the courage to take responsibility or the dignity to apologize.''
 A billionaire populist, Mr. Berlusconi excels at deflating such lofty talk. He said that his remark had been ''a compliment'' and that his critics lacked irony. ''If you want to get a degree in idiocy, I won't stop you,'' La Repubblica quoted him as saying. ''I say whatever I think.'' 
 He said the Italian left was wrong about everything, ''including their lack of a sense of humor.'' He added: ''Too bad for them. God save us from imbeciles.'' 
 The center-left opposition leader, Water Veltroni, had earlier called such ''cabaret one-liners'' unworthy of a statesman and asked Mr. Berlusconi to apologize. 
 In Brussels on Friday, when Mr. Berlusconi was asked by a reporter if he would apologize, he said whoever had asked the question should be added to ''the list'' of imbeciles, Bloomberg News reported. ''You should apologize to Italy,'' it quoted him as saying. 
 Later on Friday, Mr. Obama, who has been calling world leaders, had a ''long, cordial'' telephone conversation with Mr. Berlusconi, according to the Italian news media. The two did not discuss the gaffe, the ANSA news agency reported.
 The furor over Mr. Berlusconi's remark has raised a question: Why, of all the problems Italy is facing -- a weak economy, higher mortgage rates -- would Mr. Berlusconi get more attention for his off-the-cuff remark than for his political program?
 ''Because it's the last straw,'' said a political commentator, Beppe Severgnini. ''By now, Berlusconi isn't a political case; he's a psychological case.'' 
 Mr. Berlusconi's remark ''wasn't racist; it was infantile and untimely,'' he added. ''He has such a high opinion of himself that he thinks it's acceptable to say anything to anyone.''
 On Friday, Italy's leading daily newspaper, Corriere della Sera, ran an illustrated display of Mr. Berlusconi's most infamous gaffes. In 2002, he said that Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of Denmark was ''so handsome I'm thinking of introducing him to my wife.'' 
 In 2003, he compared a German in the European Parliament to a Nazi concentration camp guard. In 2005, he caused a diplomatic commotion after hinting that he had persuaded the Finnish president, Tarja Halonen, to back Italy to host the European Food Safety Authority by wooing her. ''I had to use all my playboy tactics, even if they have not been used for some time,'' he said. 
 Yet Mr. Berlusconi's latest gaffe seemed to tap into a deep well of anger at him, which is at least as strong as his high approval ratings. A brief report on NYTimes.com about the comment drew nearly 1,600 responses, most from upset Italians. 
 A reader named Alberto wrote, ''Mr. Berlusconi's stupid joke is a further demonstration of the racism and intolerance that grow inside Italian population, helped by the embarrassing attitude of Italian politics.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WRITERS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALTA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



346 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: British Airways, Citing Slowdown, Posts a Loss

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
British Airways sent a glimmer of hope across a stricken aviation industry on Friday by raising its revenue forecast a notch, though some analysts were skeptical that any significant improvement was in store.
 In an industry that has been hit hard by high oil prices and an economic slowdown, the revised forecast sent the carrier's shares as much as 22 percent higher in a day of volatile trading, before they fell back.
 Shares in British Airways finished 2.49 percent higher in London. 
 The company had a net loss of $:42 million, or about $66 million, for its first half, April through September, compared with net profit of $:500 million a year earlier, because of changes to accounting rules for valuing assets.
 Revenue was up 6.4 percent to $:4.7 billion.
 ''This is a good performance given the incredibly difficult trading conditions,'' the British Airways chief executive, Willie Walsh, said. ''This six-month period will be remembered as one of the bleakest on record.''
 Mr. Walsh said BA was raising its revenue forecast for the current year to ''at least 4 percent,'' from 3 percent before, as a result of higher yields produced by fare increases and a stronger dollar against the pound. That, he said, would ''more than offset'' the expected declines in passenger numbers. British Airways is reducing its winter capacity by 3 percent.
 The forecast looked like a bright light against reams of discouraging news from the European aviation industry, where no airline has more than a modest outlook for the full year. Air France-KLM, the biggest airline in Europe, issued a profit warning late last month, shortly before the second-largest, Lufthansa, cut its full-year operating profit forecast.
 Even Ryanair, the Irish budget airline, expects to only break even this year.
 For its part, British Airways said Friday that it expected to deliver ''a small operating profit'' for the full year, reined in by a 50 percent increase in fuel costs over the course of the year, to an anticipated $:3 billion.
 Analysts said the airline had done extremely well to produce a yield -- defined as revenue per passenger and per kilometer flown -- of 10.5 percent in the first half. But with the current recessionary environment, some feared that such a performance could not continue.
 ''There is an assumption behind the revenue forecast that seems to be optimistic in the current environment,'' said Nick Van Den Brul, a transport analyst in London with BNP Paribas.
 The primary concern is premium-class passenger traffic, which fell 9.2 percent in October. That is because first-class and business travel is a major source of revenue for an airline heavily exposed to the London-New York route.
 British Airways will also have to reduce fuel surcharges as oil prices fall.
 ''That will have a negative effect on the yield going ahead,'' Mr. Van Den Brul said.
 Nick Cunningham, an aviation analyst at Evolution Securities in London, said the next fiscal year was even more uncertain.
 ''They are being brave on the outlook in premium but I'm very nervous,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
 In previous slowdowns, he added, first- and business-class travel fell as much as 25 percent.
 Still, some analysts said they drew comfort from British Airways' low debt levels and its ability to rein in costs by reducing capacity, parking planes, and diminishing personnel levels through natural turnover.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (54%); BNP PARIBAS SA (50%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (54%); RYA (LSE) (54%); BNP (PAR) (50%); BNP (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: WILLIE WALSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (68%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



347 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Transition Economic Advisory Board

 BODY:
Here are the members of President-elect Obama 's Transition Economic Advisory Board. All were expected to participate in a meeting with Mr. Obama on Friday, aides to Mr. Obama said. 
 DAVID E. BONIOR Academic; former Democratic Congressman from Michigan; John Edwards's campaign manager. 
 WARREN E. BUFFETT Billionaire investor and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway; expected to take part by telephone.
 ROEL C. CAMPOSWashington lawyer; former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission; former broadcasting executive.
 WILLIAM M. DALEY Senior executive at JP Morgan Chase; former Commerce Secretary; chairman of Al Gore's presidential campaign.
 WILLIAM H. DONALDSON Former chairman of the S.E.C.; long career in investment banking, higher education and government. 
 ROGER W. FERGUSON Jr. Chief executive of TIAA-CREF, the private financial services company; former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 JENNIFER M. GRANHOLM Governor of Michigan.
 ANNE M. MULCAHY Chairwoman and chief executive of Xerox.
 RICHARD D. PARSONS Chairman of Time Warner; former banker.
 PENNY S. PRITZKER Senior executive, Hyatt; national finance chairwoman for the Obama campaign. 
 ROBERT B. REICH Author, academic, former Labor Secretary.
 ROBERT E. RUBIN Chairman of Citigroup; former Treasury Secretary.
 ERIC E. SCHMIDT Chairman and chief executive, Google.
 LAWRENCE H. SUMMERS Economist, academic; former Treasury Secretary. 
 LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON Academic; former chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisors and the National Economic Council.
 ANTONIO R. VILLARAIGOSA Mayor of Los Angeles.
 PAUL A. VOLCKER Former chairman of the Federal Reserve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (56%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (57%); ANNE MULCAHY (56%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



348 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Google at 10: Searching Its Own Soul

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
AS Google recently turned 10 years old, some analysts and investors began to say the company was suffering from early signs of maturity. Google's growth rate, while still brisk, has slowed significantly and is expected to slow more because of the economic slowdown. Eric E. Schmidt, chief executive, said that Google was better positioned than other advertising companies to survive a recession. 
 Mr. Schmidt, 53, spoke earlier this week from the company's Mountain View, Calif., headquarters about his plans for managing Google in a downturn, the unraveling of an advertising partnership with Yahoo and his recent public endorsement of Barack Obama. Mr. Schmidt is also a member of Senator Obama's transition economic advisory board. 
 Q.Google is working hard to rein in expenses. Is that because Google has matured or because of the economic crisis? And how bad do you think the economy will get?
 A. The issue we face with the economic crisis is we don't know as managers how long the crisis goes. So what is a prudent answer? A prudent answer is to watch hiring. We are hiring but at a slower rate. Last week, we made some number of tens of offers. I suspect that will continue. 
 The other thing we have done is fairly detailed expense reviews to make sure we are not wasting money. 
 Q. Given the uncertainty, do you plan for a worst-case situation or something else?
 A. It is a judgment call. Google is in a good position over the long term. We have a product that is more measurable, more targetable, and we are the innovator in the space. At some point, people need to sell products, and at some point they realize that the best advertising is measurable advertising, and they conclude that we do that. 
 Q. Google is known for investing liberally in projects that don't produce immediate returns. Does the new measure of austerity, such as it is, change that?
 A. It is interesting you use the word austerity. It doesn't feel very austere. I think it is better to use the word focus. We are clearly going to be more careful with potential large expense streams, which are of uncertain return. But we are also going to continue to invest certainly in small teams to do wacky things. 
 Q.Are there examples of projects you have undertaken in the past -- things like Chrome, Google's Internet browser, or Android, its mobile operating system -- that you wouldn't do today? 
 A. The question is, with today's market, would we still have done the things you named? Absolutely. Going forward, maybe we would do fewer ultimately. The problem here is that if you tighten up too much, you eliminate future innovation and then you set yourself up for a really bad outcome five or 10 years from now. 
 Q.Google is known for its lavish employee perks. Can you rein in expenses without affecting the culture?
 A. The people who manage these areas are very, very sensitive to what is really important versus what is an experiment or a waste of money or what have you. But we have no intention of getting rid of the really important aspects of our culture. 
 Q.Isn't it less fun to run a company that has to watch its spending more carefully? 
 A. I think it is actually more fun. The reason is that it is very easy to be a successful executive in high-growth times. It is much more challenging, but in my view much more rewarding to be a leader in times where you have to make really hard choices. 
 Q.Earlier this week, Google walked away from an advertising partnership with Yahoo, after the Justice Department said it was planning to block it on antitrust grounds. Yahoo said it would have defended the deal in court and that it was disappointed you chose not to. Was Google less committed to this deal than Yahoo?
 A. We were unsuccessful in convincing the Justice Department of something which we strongly feel, which is that providing better value to advertisers would have occurred by virtue of this deal. We concluded after a lot of soul-searching that it was not in our best interest to go through a lengthy and costly trial which we believe we ultimately would have won. 
 Q.This is the first time that regulators have gotten in the way of a Google deal. Are you concerned that, as many antitrust experts believe, this will happen more frequently now? And if so, was it a mistake for Google to propose the deal in the first place?
 A. We have no regrets about attempting to do the right thing from our perspective. With change comes risks. This is a risk that we understood. Now you ask a hypothetical question, which is, Given that that event has occurred, is there another scenario? We don't see one right now, but you never know. 
 Q.Will Google think differently about deals after this incident?
 A. Probably not. I think that this was a unique situation.
 Q.You publicly endorsed Barack Obama for president saying, among other things, that you liked his economic plan. Are there other ideas or proposals that you think could help America's and Silicon Valley's economy?
 A. The strongest position I have taken from an economic point, with Senator Obama, now President-elect Obama, has been to try to solve all of our problems at once. And the easiest way to do that, at least in domestic policy, is by a stimulus program that rewards renewable energy and over time attempts to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy. The Google calculations, which we announced about a month ago, indicate that over a 22-year period, you can save a trillion dollars by investing in these technologies, including plug-in hybrids, and thereby reduce our reliance on oil. 
 Q.Were you concerned that your personal endorsement of Barack Obama would be seen as an endorsement by Google, especially since the company could benefit from some of Barack Obama's policies on issues like net neutrality or clean energy? 
 A. I was, and we debated it internally at great length. I ultimately concluded that since there were so many C.E.O.'s who had been endorsing the Republican candidate, it would be O.K. for a C.E.O. to endorse a Democratic candidate. 
 Q.Barack Obama has said he intends to name a chief technology officer. Have you had any discussions with his team about being a candidate for that position or another role in his administration? 
 A. I am extremely happy serving the shareholders of Google as the C.E.O., so I have no interest in serving as a government employee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric E. Schmidt (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (92%); BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



349 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Possible Treasury Choices Draw Criticism

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and BEN WHITE. 
Jackie Calmes reported from Chicago, and Ben White from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, a member of the new economic advisory board that met with President-elect Barack Obama here on Friday, is also a leading candidate to be the next Treasury chief. 
 That prospect has critics of Mr. Summers, particularly on the Democratic Party's left, reviving old controversies in hopes of dooming his chances. In the days since Mr. Obama was elected, liberal bloggers have sought to ignite an online opposition by recalling the rocky five years Mr. Summers spent as president of Harvard, where he angered many women and blacks before resigning in 2006. 
 Reaching back farther, other Web sites have resurrected a 1991 memorandum that Mr. Summers signed as an economist at the World Bank that suggested parts of Africa could be repositories for toxic waste. 
 Mr. Summers, 53, left the meeting on Friday with Mr. Obama without answering a question about the controversies, and Obama advisers declined to discuss them.
 The main rival to Mr. Summers for the Treasury job, according to Obama advisers, is Timothy F. Geithner, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and a Treasury staff member under Mr. Summers when he led the agency in the final two years of the Clinton administration.
 But Mr. Geithner presents a different problem for Mr. Obama, who staked his campaign on a call for change in Washington, especially in areas of economic policy.
 Though a nonpartisan Federal Reserve official, Mr. Geithner is tightly linked with the policies of the current Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the Bush White House. Among the public, there remains deep skepticism over the wisdom and fairness of the bank bailouts. 
 Many on Wall Street still question Mr. Geithner's role in allowing the investment bank Lehman Brothers to collapse into bankruptcy, an event some believe exacerbated the financial crisis. Some also say Mr. Geithner relies too much on financial executives for guidance and, except in the Lehman case, is too quick to come to their rescue. 
 ''He is too tied to Wall Street and too tied to this administration,'' said Joseph Mason, banking professor at Louisiana State University and a critic of the bailout plans. 
 The simmering opposition to Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner is typical of post-election transitions, when various groups weigh in for or against potential recruits. 
 Mr. Summers is widely known to want another stint in the job he held in 1999 and 2000 at the end of President Bill Clinton's administration. 
 But in angering feminists, blacks and environmentalists over time, Mr. Summers has hurt himself with three groups that make up much of the base of the Democratic Party -- making him a prime example of the constituent politics that Mr. Obama must maneuver around in coming weeks. 
 While at Harvard, Mr. Summers sparked a furor by suggesting that innate factors might help explain why more men than women go into scientific fields and excel there.
 ''There is no need for Obama to open that can of worms and court controversy when there are other good people'' who could lead the Treasury, said one Democratic source who asked to remain unnamed. While Mr. Summers could weather the attacks, he also faces skepticism among colleagues, even those who admire him as an outstanding economist with a successful record at the Treasury, as being arrogant and sometimes condescending. 
 But Mr. Summers has influential promoters, not least his predecessor as Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, for whom he served as deputy. Speaker Nancy Pelosi, through a spokesman, on Friday also praised Mr. Summers as ''one of America's leading economic minds'' and ''a valuable resource to House Democrats'' as they have sought ways to address the economic crisis. 
 Typical of the material on the Internet about Mr. Summers, on the morning after the election, the Huffington Post reported that Kim Gandy, president of the National Organization for Women, had contacted the Web site to register her ''mixed feelings'' about his rumored prospects. 
 A day later, the site posted the private memorandum from 1991, when Mr. Summers was chief economist at the World Bank, that suggested dumping waste in underpopulated and ''underpolluted'' African countries. 
 The issue was raised in 1993 at Mr. Summers's Senate confirmation hearings to be under secretary of the Treasury at the start of the Clinton administration. He was confirmed then and two more times, as deputy and then as secretary. 
 One Obama adviser counseled against interpreting Mr. Summers's inclusion on the 17-member economic advisory board that Mr. Obama announced on Thursday, and Mr. Geithner's absence, as indicating anything about their relative chances. 
 Mr. Geithner is a sitting Federal Reserve official, while the Obama board includes former government officials like Mr. Summers and Mr. Rubin and corporate leaders. 
 Like Mr. Summers, Mr. Geithner served at the Treasury under Mr. Rubin, helping manage the Russian credit crisis in the late 1990s. 
 Mr. Geithner, 47, also played a role in the bailouts of Brazil, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico and Thailand. And he spent two years in Tokyo in the early 1990s, where he studied Japan's economy, later urging Mr. Rubin to assist in lifting that country out of its long financial malaise. 
 He is widely liked and admired across the financial industry as a tough but fair regulator with a keen understanding of the ways of Washington and Wall Street. 
 ''He is very smart and very thoughtful and listens very, very carefully and is able to earn the trust of everyone he deals with,'' said Peter G. Peterson, senior chairman of the private equity firm Blackstone Group. Mr. Peterson led the search committee that selected Mr. Geithner for his job at the Federal Reserve.
 In addition to his ties to the current administration, some critics say Mr. Geithner's quiet persona -- he is rarely one to dominate a room -- could be problematic for a position that demands a statesman capable of advocating the position of the United States before world leaders. 
 Mr. Peterson, however, dismissed the idea that Mr. Geithner shrinks from confrontation, noting that he discussed the issue with Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers in 2003 when considering Mr. Geithner for the Federal Reserve job. 
 ''They rather smiled when I asked the question,'' Mr. Peterson said, ''and said that Tim can be very, very direct when he needs to be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner, also seen as a Treasury candidate, has been criticized for a link to policies of the current secretary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers's policies and his tenure as Harvard president have surfaced as an issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LIBERAL MEDIA (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



350 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Opening Statement From Obama's Press Conference

 BODY:
The opening statement of President-elect Barack Obama on Friday at a news conference in Chicago, as recorded by Federal News Service. A full transcript of the news conference: nytimes.com/washington
 This morning we woke up to more sobering news about the state of our economy. The 240,000 jobs lost in October marks the 10th consecutive month that our economy has shed jobs. In total, we've lost nearly 1.2 million jobs this year, and more than 10 million Americans are now unemployed. Tens of millions of families are struggling to figure out how to pay the bills and stay in their homes. Their stories are an urgent reminder that we are facing the greatest economic challenge of our lifetime, and we're going to have to act swiftly to resolve it.
 Now the United States has only one government and one president at a time, and until Jan. 20 of next year, that government is the current administration. I have spoken to President Bush. I appreciate his commitment to ensuring that his economic policy team keeps us fully informed as developments unfold. And I'm also thankful for his invitation to the White House. 
 Immediately after I become president, I'm going to confront this economic crisis head-on by taking all necessary steps to ease the credit crisis, help hardworking families and restore growth and prosperity.
 This morning I met with members of my Transition Economic Advisory Board, who are standing behind me, alongside my vice president-elect, Joe Biden. They will help to guide the work of my transition team, working with Rahm Emanuel, my chief of staff, in developing a strong set of policies to respond to this crisis. We discussed in the earlier meeting several of the most immediate challenges facing our economy and key priorities on which to focus on in the days and weeks ahead.
 First of all, we need a rescue plan for the middle class that invests in immediate efforts to create jobs and provide relief to families that are watching their paychecks shrink and their life savings disappear. A particularly urgent priority is a further extension of unemployment insurance benefits for workers who cannot find work in the increasingly weak economy. A fiscal stimulus plan that will jump-start economic growth is long overdue. I've talked about it throughout the last few months of the campaign. We should get it done.
 Second, we have to address the spreading impact of the financial crisis on the other sectors of our economy: small businesses that are struggling to meet their payrolls and finance their holiday inventories, and state and municipal governments facing devastating budget cuts and tax increases. We must also remember that the financial crisis is increasingly global and requires a global response.
 The news coming out of the auto industry this week reminds us of the hardship it faces -- hardship that goes far beyond individual auto companies to the countless suppliers, small businesses and communities throughout our nation who depend on a vibrant American auto industry. The auto industry is the backbone of American manufacturing and a critical part of our attempt to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
 I would like to see the administration do everything it can to accelerate the retooling assistance that Congress has already enacted. In addition, I have made it a high priority for my transition team to work on additional policy options to help the auto industry adjust, weather the financial crisis, and succeed in producing fuel-efficient cars here in the United States of America. And I was glad to be joined today by Gov. Jennifer Granholm, who obviously has great knowledge and great interest on this issue. I've asked my team to explore what we can do under current law and whether additional legislation will be needed for this purpose.
 Third, we will review the implementation of this administration's financial program to ensure that the government's efforts are achieving their central goal of stabilizing financial markets while protecting taxpayers, helping homeowners and not unduly rewarding the management of financial firms that are receiving government assistance.
 It is absolutely critical that the Treasury work closely with the F.D.I.C., HUD and other government agencies to use the substantial authority that they already have to help families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes.
 Finally, as we monitor and address these immediate economic challenges, we will be moving forward in laying out a set of policies that will grow our middle class and strengthen our economy in the long term. We cannot afford to wait on moving forward on the key priorities that I identified during the campaign, including clean energy, health care, education and tax relief for middle-class families.
 My transition team will be working on each of these priorities in the weeks ahead, and I intend to reconvene this advisory board to discuss the best ideas for responding to these immediate problems.
 Let me close by saying this: I do not underestimate the enormity of the task that lies ahead. We have taken some major action to date, and we will need further action during this transition and subsequent months. Some of the choices that we make are going to be difficult. And I have said before and I will repeat again: It is not going to be quick and it is not going to be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in, but America is a strong and resilient country. And I know we will succeed if we put aside partisanship and politics and work together as one nation. That's what I intend to do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



351 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Take A Bow, America

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The markets are battered and job losses are skyrocketing, but even in the midst of a national economic crisis, we should not lose sight of the profound significance of this week and what it tells us about the continuing promise of America.
 Voters said no to incompetence and divisiveness and elbowed their way past the blight of racism that has been such a barrier to progress for so long. Barack Obama won the state of North Carolina, for crying out loud. 
 The nation deserves to take a bow. This is not the same place it used to be.
 Election night brought a cascade of memories to Taylor Rogers, who is 82 and still lives in Memphis, where he grew up. He remembered a big crowd that jammed a Masonic temple in Memphis on an April night 40 years ago. 
 ''It was filled with people from wall to wall,'' he said. ''And it was storming and raining outside.''
 The men and women, nearly all of them black, were crushed against one another as they listened, almost as one, to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. give his final speech.
 Mr. Rogers was one of the sanitation men whose strike drew Dr. King to Memphis. In the aftermath of the Obama victory on Tuesday night, he recited from memory the climactic phrases from the speech, the part where Dr. King said that God had allowed him to go up to the mountain and that he had looked over and seen the promised land.
 ''I remember it so well,'' said Mr. Rogers. ''Dr. King told us: 'I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight that we, as a people, will get to the promised land.'
 ''You could tell from the words and from the expression on his face that he really felt that something was about to happen.''
 The next day, of course, Dr. King was killed.
 Like so many other older African-Americans that I spoke with during this long, long campaign season, Mr. Rogers said he never dreamed that he would live to see a black person elected president of the United States.
 ''A black president in the White House?'' he said. ''In those days, you wouldn't even have thought about going to the White House. Not unless you were a janitor or something.''
 It can be easy in such a moment of triumph to lose sight of the agony wrought by the unrelieved evil of racism and to forget how crucial a role anti-black racism played in shaping American life since the first slaves were dumped ashore 400 years ago.
 Blacks have been holding fast to the promise of America for all that time. Not without anger. Not without rage. But with a fidelity that in the darkest moments -- those moments when the flow of blood seemed like it would never stop, when enslaved families were wrenched apart, when entire communities were put to the torch, when the breeze put the stiffened bodies of lynched victims in motion, when even small children were murdered and Dr. King was taken from us -- even in those dire moments, African-Americans held fast to the promise of America with a fidelity that defied logic.
 The multiracial crowds dancing with unrestrained joy from coast to coast on Tuesday night were proof that the promise of America lives -- and that you can't always hang your hat on logic.
 You knew something was up when the exit polls revealed early Tuesday evening that Senator Obama had carried the white working-class vote in Indiana, one of the reddest of the red states and a onetime stronghold of the Ku Klux Klan. 
 I got a call on Friday from David Goodman, whose brother Andrew was one of three civil rights workers slain in the searing racial heat of Mississippi in 1964.
 ''It's shocking, isn't it?'' he said of the election. 
 I agreed.
 ''It's wonderful,'' he said. 
 Arthur Miller liked to say that the essence of America was its promise. In the darkest of the dark times, in wartime and drastic economic downturns, in the crucible of witch hunts or racial strife, in the traumatic aftermath of a terror attack, that promise lights the way forward.
 This week marked a renewal of America's promise. Voters went to the polls and placed a bet on a better future, handing the power to an unlikely candidate who promised to draw people together rather than exploit their differences.
 The final tally wasn't close.
 We still have two wars to deal with and an economic crisis as severe as any in decades. But we should take a moment to recognize the stunning significance of this moment in history. It's worth a smile, a toast, a sigh, a tear.
 America should be proud. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008



352 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: A Giant Step in Civil Rights History

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Finishing Our Work,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Nov. 5):
 I was 9 years old when Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in major league baseball, 30 years old when Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, and now, 71 when Barack Obama was elected president of the United States. 
 I am so happy I lived long enough to see an African-American elected to the highest political office in America. Jackie Robinson, Martin Luther King and numerous other African-Americans blazed a trail that helped make it possible for Mr. Obama to continue and build on their good works. 
 A President Obama will challenge, inspire and lead us to be the best we can be. He will bring out the better angels of our natures, which will drive us to strive for the common good. 
 Jan. 20, 2009, will be the dawning of a new day in our country. I am looking forward to Mr. Obama's Inaugural Address. It is an exciting time to be alive.
 Paul L. Whiteley Sr. Louisville, Ky., Nov.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman cites the 1964 Civil Rights Act as one of the stepping stones that led to Barack Obama's historic victory Tuesday night.
 It would seem appropriate at this point to give credit to the politician who was perhaps the key enabler of what transpired in the election of 2008. 
 Despite the terrible legacy of Vietnam, it was Lyndon B. Johnson who knew that the injustices of the past had to be rectified in order for our nation to become a true union. His Civil Rights Act and Voting Rights Act were perhaps the two most important pieces of legislation ever passed, and his speech urging passage of the Voting Rights Act was one of the finest presidential addresses in American history.
 Johnson knew that his stances would change the electoral map forever, but because of what he set in motion, Mr. Obama was able to capture the presidency -- and in a time frame of less than two generations. Remarkable. 
 Steven Morris East Hampton, N.Y., Nov.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As an African-American whose great-grandparents were slaves in Tallahatchie County, Mississippi, when the Civil War ended, I think that Barack Obama's election helps me understand, in small measure, how they must have felt when they gained their freedom.
 They told my maternal grandmother how their whole universe changed, yet it barely changed at all. Freedom was much more complex than expected, with innumerable problems to solve before going to join God and the ancestors in heaven.
 During the following 30 or more years, two African-Americans, Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington (both interracial like Mr. Obama), inspired legions of former slaves, Northern philanthropists and missionaries as well as enlightened Southern whites to establish hundreds of schools and colleges to educate the former slaves. 
 They knew that the plight of African-Americans was not a black problem, but an American problem. In so doing, they saved an economically fragile nation and left a shining example for our country today. 
 David L. Evans Cambridge, Mass., Nov.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Barack Obama's election to the presidency is a momentous occasion and marks yet another milestone in the fight for full racial equality. 
 But I question the assertion that it is truly the end of the Civil War. Not only does that shortchange the incremental change that has led to this moment, but it also doesn't acknowledge the reality that the fight for real racial parity -- in access to health care, education, employment and so on -- is far from over. 
 With his election, Mr. Obama has proved that the possibilities for brilliant, talented Americans can be limitless under the right circumstances. We need now to focus on ensuring that all people -- regardless of color and background -- have the opportunity to reach their full potential. 
 Elizabeth Cohen Narberth, Pa., Nov.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After reading Thomas L. Friedman's column, I was reminded of something I was told when I was a little girl. 
 I asked my father, ''What am I?'' He told me I was an American. 
 ''But you came from Egypt, and Mom is from Poland,'' I said. 
 He told me that made no difference. I was just an American, and that was what made our country so wonderful. 
 Over 50 years have passed, and I still remember what he said.
 Now we have elected a president based on his qualities of leadership. Isn't it time to stop labeling our citizens as Asian-, Italian-, African- or any other kind of hyphenated American? 
 The great strength of our country is in what we are, just American. When we realize that, the Civil War will truly be over.
 Harriet Goldman Suffern, N.Y., Nov.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 I agree with Thomas L. Friedman that the Civil War is finally over. But I think he misses the mark somewhat. 
 The political strategy of pandering to the ''solid South'' is what is over. The Democrats pursued that strategy for 100 years and the Republicans for 40 years. 
 Finally Dixie is buried, and the South can free itself from that burden and be truly part of the union. 
 I hope that the military strategies that are most often prevalent in the South will also be buried with this historic election. 
 Jim Kfoury Boston, Nov.
 5, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WARD SCHUMAKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); BASEBALL (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SLAVERY (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); HISTORY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (70%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2008



353 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE HILL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: The Return of John McCain, but Which One?

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
John McCain has been here before, coming up short in a presidential race like so many senators before him and staring at a non-triumphant return to the Senate. 
 But the circumstances this time are vastly different. In 2000, Mr. McCain was welcomed back almost as a hero once he ended his primary campaign against George W. Bush. He was prized for his openness, sought out by fellow Republicans for his endorsement and respected for the national following he had built in his gutsy effort against the future president. There was a sense that he had been wronged, dragged down by scurrilous attacks when he had reached for a higher tone in politics.
 Now it is Mr. McCain and his campaign who have been criticized as trying to paint President-elect Barack Obama as a pal to terrorists and a socialist in Democratic clothing. In this campaign, Mr. McCain's free-wheeling relationship with the press was badly strained, he was accused of pandering to conservatives and party strategists said he damaged the prospects of other Republicans on the ballot. 
 As a result, his colleagues are wondering which John McCain will be returning to the Senate for a term that extends two more years.
 Will it be the John McCain who was an enthusiastic coalition builder, deal maker and central figure in Congress, one as apt to tweak Republicans as much as Democrats? Or the John McCain who seemed so dismissive of Mr. Obama, who spent considerable time assailing the opposition rather than making his own case and who to many seemed to become what he had once disdained.
 ''John is going to have to make a decision,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. ''I think he will make the right choice and pitch in.''
 Many of his colleagues say they believe the same, that Mr. McCain will quickly reassert himself in the Senate and could, if he so chooses, be a valuable asset to Mr. Obama as the new administration seeks to move its agenda on the economy, national security, immigration and climate change, among other issues.
 ''If President-elect Obama lives up to his rhetoric to reach across party lines, and I hope that he will, he is going to need John McCain,'' said Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican and longtime ally of Mr. McCain. ''He is going to be a real player.''
 In his concession speech on Tuesday night, Mr. McCain said he was ready to do his part.
 ''These are difficult times for our country, and I pledge to him tonight to do all in my power to help him lead us through the many challenges we face,'' he said of Mr. Obama, in a speech that many Democrats hailed as promising for its conciliatory tone.
 Longtime associates of Mr. McCain say they expect him to play a constructive role in the Senate and not sulk in the aftermath of defeat, trying to undermine Mr. Obama. They expect him to rededicate himself to the legislative art in his remaining years in the Senate. ''It is just not in his nature to stand still,'' said one longtime adviser who would talk about the Senate return only if he was not quoted by name.
 But there is serious fence-mending to be done. Plenty of harsh words were expressed over the course of recent months, and many Senate Democrats were angered by what they interpreted as a lack of respect for Mr. Obama from the McCain campaign and the senator's own warnings about the dire perils of liberal Democratic government.
 Some of the hatchets are quickly being buried. Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat and Senate majority leader, spoke by telephone with Mr. McCain on Friday; according to an aide, they agreed to put the attacks of the last few months behind them. Mr. Reid, who for months during the campaign had carried with him a set of negative quotes about Mr. McCain from fellow Republicans to have ready for recitation, plans on ripping up the quotes, said his spokesman, Jim Manley.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who returned to the Senate earlier this year after his own abbreviated presidential primary run, said Mr. McCain would no doubt have to decompress. But Mr. Dodd expects his colleague to get back on track.
 ''He has been a here long time,'' Mr. Dodd said, ''and people have had their relationships with him, including good ones over the years. And ultimately that is what you remember, and that is what will prevail.'' 
 Republicans say it is unlikely that Mr. McCain will bear the blame for party losses in the House and Senate, with most attributing them to miserable economic conditions and President Bush's lingering unpopularity.
 ''He should come back OK,'' said Senator Pete V. Domenici, a retiring Republican whose seat went to a Democrat on Tuesday. ''He did the best a Republican could do. The headwinds were just enormous.'' 
 Mr. McCain is simply the latest in a long line of senators turned presidential contenders who have had to sheepishly make their way home to the Senate, which until this year has been a political albatross for dozens of presidential hopefuls. Some pick up right where they left off, and some drop off the Senate map or make quick exits.
 When he last came back to the Senate after being defeated in 2000, Mr. McCain used his ire at Mr. Bush and other Republicans as a springboard for rebellion, starting his zealous pursuit of a campaign finance overhaul and other reform initiatives. He even toyed with the idea of switching parties -- though he ultimately found more influence, and the foundations for this year's presidential bid, in his status as a maverick Republican.
 Now the Senate waits to see how Mr. McCain will apply the lessons of his latest presidential quest. He has the experience and Senate seniority to make of it what he will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORISM (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); KENT CONRAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2008



354 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; EDUCATION GREENWICH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: District Regroups in Seeking New Leader

BYLINE: By ADAM BOWLES

DATELINE: Greenwich 

 BODY:
 THE Board of Education here met last week to begin work on a search process to replace the departing superintendent, Betty J. Sternberg, the district's third leader in 10 years.
 Dr. Sternberg announced on Oct. 15 that she will not seek renewal of her three-year contract as superintendent, and will leave at the end of the school year. Her decision came after a 6 to 2 vote by the board earlier in the month to give her a $3,500 performance raise, of a possible $15,000 bonus. The board chairwoman, Nancy Weissler, said the district's academic achievements have been mixed under Dr. Sternberg's watch. For instance, writing scores reached a five-year high at the high school, but reading and math scores declined. 
 The board said it wanted to have a new superintendent in place by the beginning of the next school year. Ms. Weissler said the board wanted parent involvement in the process. 
 ''Our focus will continue to be, not surprisingly, on the academic improvement of all kids,'' Ms. Weissler said. ''We don't expect a massive change in direction and priorities.''
 But as the board tries to come up with guidelines for how to choose a new school leader, it realizes that some in the community worry about the high turnover of school leaders in Greenwich, one of the wealthiest communities in the country, and whether the board is holding its superintendents to an unrealistically high standard.
 Before she came to Greenwich, Dr. Sternberg spent 26 years with the State Department of Education, including her last three as the commissioner. Her predecessors as Greenwich superintendent, Larry Leverett and Roger Lulow, also did not stay beyond three years. 
 ''All of us would want longevity,'' Ms. Weissler said. ''The turnover can be disruptive. But I don't think we're out of sync with the national experience.''
 Dr. Sternberg said in an interview that during her tenure, the district had to make some tough choices about how to desegregate its schools that were not easy for many people. 
 In 2006, as the state commissioner, Dr. Sternberg said that she notified Greenwich that the Hamilton Avenue School was racially imbalanced. The next year, when she was already the Greenwich superintendent, the district was told that the New Lebanon School also had become imbalanced. Dr. Sternberg said the New Lebanon imbalance should be corrected by its conversion to a magnet school in 2009-10. Also, in 2007, Greenwich school officials believed Julian Curtiss Magnet School of World Languages was a student or two away from becoming imbalanced. But, now Ms. Sternberg said, there is a much larger margin. 
 During her time in Greenwich, Dr. Sternberg said she observed the growing economic and cultural diversity of the community, saw a declining enrollment, and noted the challenges that came with both trends. 
 ''I held out the mirror to them,'' Dr. Sternberg said. ''I said, 'Look, we really do have schools that are getting segregated and we have to do something about it.' The intensity and concern about it -- well, people were scared. People are used to having things the way they are. It's frightening to say maybe we have to consider doing something a different way. It gets at entitlement.''
 Julie Faryniarz, president of the Greenwich PTA Council, said the council worked well with Dr. Sternberg, but Ms. Faryniarz said she was not comfortable with Dr. Sternberg's characterization that the district has a problem with segregation. Instead, she said students, by virtue of the district's neighborhood school system, simply aren't exposed to as many other cultures and races until they reach the high school.
 School officials ''work very hard to meet the needs of all the kids,'' she said. 
 Peter Tesei, Greenwich first selectman, said Dr. Sternberg stepped into the job that came with challenges, including school construction delays related to a mold problem at Hamilton Avenue, which would have been difficult for anyone in that position. He said that in the search for a new superintendent, the school board should give priority to someone who already works in the district and is familiar with the challenges facing Greenwich schools. 
 ''It is fair to say there is concern, not just in the schools, but in the community in general, for the overall performance of the schools and a desire to see the schools do better through the various state tests that are administered,'' Mr. Tesei said. ''Because of that the pressure will be on any individual who serves as superintendent to develop the leadership and means to do that.''
 Nearly 8 percent of Greenwich students qualify for free-and-reduced price lunch. Nearly 25 percent of the student population of 8,730 is minority. In 2006-7, 17.2 percent of the students came from homes where English was not the first language (Spanish was the dominant language in most of those homes.) 
 Dr. Sternberg said the challenge of getting people in Greenwich to understand the need for students to learn to work with other cultures and races against the backdrop of a global economy was even more intense than she expected. She said she helped create a 44-member task force known as RISE, or Racial Imbalance, Space Utilization and Declining Enrollment, that worked to address the problem of poor and minority children being increasingly concentrated in certain schools. 
 Ultimately, the board unanimously supported the group's recommendation to convert the New Lebanon School into a partial magnet school. Also, the lottery for magnet schools is now held in the central office and gives priority to certain schools with higher minority populations. 
 Dr. Sternberg said she also worked to revamp the teacher evaluation system, ensuring that each Wednesday all principals and instructional supervisors visit classrooms -- no meetings are scheduled on that day. 
 Joseph Cirasuolo, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Public School Superintendents, worked with Ms. Sternberg when he served as chairman of a statewide committee that helped set requirements for graduation in the 1980s. 
 ''She wasn't just looking at the numbers,'' he said about the way Dr. Sternberg dealt with the desegregation issues. ''She was looking at children, especially the impact on poor children. These meetings can tend to be esoteric. She talked about all children meeting these requirements and the need to set up requirements so they have a chance to meet them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TASK AHEAD: Fifth graders work in a computer lab at New Lebanon School. Below, Betty J. Sternberg, superintendent of Greenwich Public Schools. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGNET SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



355 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Souvenirs

BYLINE: By CAROLINE H. DWORIN

 BODY:
ON the morning of Sept. 30, the final issue of The New York Sun lay neatly stacked atop local newsstands. The next morning, the newspaper was gone for good. Yet The Sun's presence endures on city streets in the form of a few yellow newspaper boxes that are empty, like the abandoned habitats of an extinct bird. 
 Even more ubiquitous are the yellow-and-white plastic weights once used to hold down piles of windblown Suns at newsstands. Now, suddenly, they are an artifact of history.
 Yet when asked if anybody had inquired about taking home one of the weights as a keepsake, news vendors tended to look blank. A vendor at Columbus Avenue and 81st Street who had seven weights on the racks outside his store shook his head and shrugged.
 ''Why?'' he replied. ''It holds down paper.''
 The newspaper commemorated by these items had a brief but noteworthy run. Taking the name of the first penny press newspaper, which ran from 1833 to 1950, the new incarnation of the publication arrived in the spring of 2002. While its paid circulation was modest (about 14,000), The Sun ran for six and a half years before dying in the crosshairs of newspaper layoffs and widespread economic panic.
 ''Many people ask about it, so many people,'' said Youssif Ali, a cashier at a newsstand on Broadway near 77th Street. The weights were still visible outside, holding down the flapping pages of competitors. But collectors are not to be found.
 ''No,'' Mr. Ali said, ''no one asks about the paperweights.''
 Perhaps those who will notice the weights the longest and watch mournfully as they disappear are the paper's former staff members. A few weeks ago, while walking in the Flatiron district, Jacob Gershman, The Sun's Albany reporter, found himself standing on line at a newsstand, a worn weight in his hand. 
 ''You see these around, and you want to pick something up before it all goes away,'' he said. ''How quickly does an institution like The Sun recede in people's memories?'' 
 Mr. Gershman knows of at least one colleague who is trying to acquire one of the paper's news boxes. ''But a paperweight is second best,'' he said. ''Our circulation wasn't that high, but as far as paperweights, we were overrepresented. We just gave them out, like pennies.''
 When he asked the vendor if he could keep one of the weights, he was rewarded with a funny look and told no. It took a little begging to prevail. He explained that he used to work for the paper, that it was a souvenir. Finally, the vendor relented. Mr. Gershman thanked him and scurried off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As a newspaper dies, its mundane trappings are transformed into unexpected mementos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSSTANDS (91%); PAID CIRCULATION (89%); BIRDS (71%); LAYOFFS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



356 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; WINTER IN THE SUN HEADS UP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Flights May Mean Higher Fares

BYLINE: By AUSTIN CONSIDINE

 BODY:
GETTING to the Caribbean this winter is going to be a little harder and perhaps a lot more expensive, as many airlines have cut back on flights, leaving less capacity and thus more demand for the seats still available.
 On Sept. 3, for example, American Airlines announced it was cutting its number of daily flights to San Juan from 38 to 18, before following up with the news that it was adding three new flights to the Puerto Rican capital -- from Baltimore, Los Angeles and Santo Domingo. 
 American Eagle, a regional subsidiary of American, slashed its flights out of San Juan from 50 a day to 33. It has added some flights in the meantime, however, and next month it will offer 43 flights a day from San Juan on weekends instead of 33. 
 Some small, inter-island carriers like Carib Aviation, an Antigua-based airline, suffered worse fates. Carib shut down altogether on Sept. 30. Though its demise affected service to several islands, Montserrat was hardest hit, as Carib had been the only carrier offering regularly scheduled service there.
 St. Maarten-based Windward Islands Airways ultimately stepped in to fill the void, announcing in late September that it would provide service to the island from Antigua and St. Maarten.
 According to the International Air Transport Association, a trade association that represents and tracks roughly 230 airlines worldwide, traditionally big draws like the Bahamas will see drops in flights in coming months compared with last winter. For example, flights from the mainland United States to Freeport, on Grand Bahama Island, are expected to drop to 85 a week in December -- peak holiday season -- from 134 last December. Using the same parameters, flights to Nassau are expected to drop from 376 to 292; flights to Marsh Harbour, in the Abaco islands, will drop from 122 to 41.
 Hunter Keay, an airline industry analyst for Stifel Nicolaus, explained that air travel generally was shaping up to become a ''mid-priced luxury good.'' One reason, he said, is that airlines were already anticipating a passenger slowdown because of the weakening economy, and began cutting capacity accordingly, starting after Labor Day. ''Airlines were already out ahead of the curve in terms of reacting to a challenge in demand,'' he said. ''Rather than reacting to the slower demand environment, they were sort of proactively cutting in advance of it. The capacity cuts are really just starting to get legs now.''
 However, the news for travelers isn't totally bleak. Though industry analysts like Mr. Keay didn't expect significant relief from major carriers, he noted that passengers could end up catching a break wherever low-cost carriers fly.
 In 2002, when airlines, still reeling from the effects of Sept. 11, made similar capacity cuts, JetBlue stepped in with new flights from New York's Kennedy Airport to San Juan, effectively breaking American's monopoly over the route. This year, the traditionally low-cost carrier looks to take advantage of major carrier cutbacks again, having announced a number of new routes to the Caribbean for this coming season. 
 MOST important, perhaps, JetBlue said its daily flights to San Juan from Kennedy will increase from four to seven by December. The carrier is also adding several new flights to San Juan out of Boston and Orlando and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., throughout the season, and Air Tran is adding flights to San Juan from Orlando and Baltimore Washington International Airport starting Dec. 18. That's in addition to its existing service out of Atlanta. 
 On the whole, things will have just about evened out for San Juan by peak vacation season. According to the I.A.T.A., flights from the mainland to San Juan's Luis Munoz Marin International Airport are still expected to crest in December at 811 a week. That's only about a 6 percent drop compared with 863 weekly flights last December. Meanwhile, flights to the smaller Isla Grande airport, also in San Juan, look to increase: up to 28 a week this December compared with 17 last December.
 Other discount airlines, like Spirit Airlines, have similarly added Caribbean routes for this season. And even major carriers that are making cuts in some areas, like Delta and American, are adding new routes elsewhere. As a result, some islands, like Grenada and Trinidad, are actually getting more service this season than they did last winter, I.A.T.A. figures show. 
 American Airlines is adding new service this season to Grenada and Antigua from Miami, while Spirit Airlines has new direct service to Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, from Fort Lauderdale. Starting Jan. 31 American will offer a new route from Chicago to Montego Bay, Jamaica, five times a week. 
 Starting Dec. 20, Delta will begin two new direct flights to the Caribbean: from Kennedy Airport to Bonaire, in the Netherlands Antilles; and from Atlanta to the Dominican Republic. 
 And JetBlue will offer twice daily flights to Nassau from Fort Lauderdale, and new daily service from Orlando, starting Feb. 1, pending government approval. The carrier is also expanding its daily New York service to St. Maarten by adding a new weekly route from Boston, starting Feb. 14, also pending government approval. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: San Juan, Puerto Rico, is losing some flights, but gaining others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUMBERTO TRIAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR SERVICE (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); SAINT MARTIN (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (92%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%); MONTSERRAT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



357 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Just What This Downturn Demands: A Consumption Tax

BYLINE: By ROBERT FRANK

 BODY:
THE country is now in the midst of the deepest economic crisis since the Great Depression. But as a new administration prepares to enter the White House, the crisis could end up being a potent ally for change. Without it, political resistance to the steps needed to address our most acute and longstanding economic problems would be almost insurmountable.
 Despite broad agreement that the nation needs to increase spending in many domains -- including infrastructure, health care, scientific research and clean energy development -- no one has forged a legislative coalition capable of raising the necessary tax revenue. But with the country sliding into what promises to be a sharp and protracted economic downturn, it is imperative to increase spending over the short run, regardless of how we pay for it. 
 Even stalwart conservatives concede the point. For example, Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economist who was an adviser to the campaign of Senator John McCain, recently wrote in The Washington Post, ''The only way to prevent a deepening recession will be a temporary program of increased government spending.'' Mr. Feldstein suggested that government might need to offset a shortfall of some $300 billion in household spending.
 In the long run, though, it will be necessary to raise enough tax revenue to balance the budget. One of the most effective ways to do that is by changing what we tax. Most federal revenue now comes from the income tax. Because a family's annual income equals the amount it spends each year plus the amount it saves, we are effectively taxing savings. And savings rates have fallen precipitously, often dipping into negative territory as families have used home equity loans and credit card debt to spend more than they earned. Because the country needs to save more, taxing savings makes no sense.
 The first reform that Barack Obama should consider is replacing the progressive income tax with a progressive tax on consumption. A family would report its income to the Internal Revenue Service as it does now, and also its savings, as it now reports contributions to retirement accounts. Annual consumption would then be calculated as the family's income minus its savings. Its taxable consumption would be that amount minus a large standard deduction -- say, $30,000 for a family of four. 
 A family that earned $60,000 and saved $10,000, for example, would have taxable consumption of $20,000. Initial tax rates on consumption would be low, and would then rise steadily with consumption, topping out at higher levels than the current top rates on income. 
 Such a tax could raise more revenue than the current system, yet would be far less burdensome for families at nearly all income levels. Because of the large standard deduction, middle-income families would pay less than they did before, and high-income consumers could limit their tax increases by saving more.
 How painful would that be? Some wealthy families now spend millions of dollars on coming-of-age parties for their children. A steeply progressive consumption tax would encourage them to spend less, which would not be much of a sacrifice, since the main effect would be to lower the bar that defines an acceptable coming-of-age party for people in their tax bracket.
 Other changes in what we tax could further reduce the revenue shortfall while producing positive side effects. Energy and climate specialists, for example, have long advocated taxes on carbon. The burden of these levies would be lessened by the resulting reductions in pollution and congestion.
 Imposing new taxes is never easy. But recent research suggests innovative ways of making it more palatable. Behavioral economists have shown that the pain caused by a loss is far greater than the pleasure caused by a gain of the same magnitude. This asymmetry, called loss aversion, helps explain why it is so hard to pay higher taxes. Doing so means reducing consumption now -- a loss that is immediately painful. 
 To overcome this hurdle, Congress could vote to increase future taxes -- a strategy that happily coincides with current fiscal imperatives. Tax increases are never a good idea when the economy is in the doldrums, but the current downturn will not be permanent. Higher taxes could be phased in gradually, after income growth resumes. As long as each year's tax increase is smaller than the corresponding growth in income, painful reductions in consumption will not be necessary. 
 Evidence supporting this strategy comes from ''Save More Tomorrow,'' a payroll savings program designed by the economists Richard H. Thaler and Shlomo Benartzi. Under this program, workers can allocate a portion of future salary increases to retirement savings accounts. Hundreds of corporations report that their employees began saving at sharply higher rates after the introduction of this program.
 It would be quixotic to imagine that losses from the current economic meltdown won't be painful. But the crisis also opens new doors to policymakers -- providing them with options that would have seemed unthinkable just a few months ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROBERT H. FRANK: A Cornell University economist and visiting scholar at the Stern School of Business at New York University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (56%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



358 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Prolific Director, Off Off Off Off Broadway

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
 IS David Cromer the most talented theater director that Americans have never heard of? 
 Er, silly question, I know. Most Americans could not name a single theater director, talented or not, Tony-laureled or obscure, unless a nephew, daughter or second cousin happens to be one. But Mr. Cromer has a low profile even among the theater cognoscenti in New York, because he has worked for the last two decades in Chicago, mostly at the kind of small, funky spaces that seem to take root in almost every neighborhood in this theater-rich city.
 As the first fingers of a chilly Midwestern winter began to tickle noses, Mr. Cromer was seemingly omnipresent on the small-theater scene here. By night he was playing the Stage Manager in his freshly reimagined production of ''Our Town,'' a smash for the Hypocrites theater troupe last season, which returned for an encore run this fall at the enchantingly funky Chopin Theater in the Wicker Park neighborhood. During the day Mr. Cromer was in rehearsals directing a new play, ''Celebrity Row'' by Itamar Moses, at the American Theater Company. 
 And out in the suburb of Glencoe, north of Chicago, at the Writers' Theater, Mr. Cromer's evocative staging of William Inge's ''Picnic'' was earning rapturous notices. ''It is one of the best performances of anything -- and I mean anything, not just plays -- that I've seen in my life,'' Terry Teachout wrote in The Wall Street Journal. ''This is a destination show, worth traveling any distance to see.''
 The roaring Broadway success of ''August: Osage County,'' which began life here at the Steppenwolf Theater Company and opens at the National Theater in London this month, has rekindled the Chicago-New York theater connection. Coincidentally the Chicago Shakespeare Theater picked up the regional Tony Award this year. (This is the only city that is home to four companies that have been given that laurel; the Steppenwolf, the Goodman Theater and the Victory Gardens Theater are the others.) But the city really is most notable for the health and variety of its smaller theaters, making it possible for directors like Mr. Cromer, and scads of talented actors, to forge careers -- perhaps more artistically rewarding than financially remunerative -- without leaving town.
 In recent years, however, Mr. Cromer, a native of Skokie who attended high school and college here (he didn't finish either, he amiably confides), has begun branching out, in particular earning some well-deserved attention from New York.
 His Steppenwolf production of Austin Pendleton's ''Orson's Shadow'' was a modest hit when it moved to the Barrow Street Theater in Greenwich Village in 2005. This year his searing production of a musical adaptation of Elmer Rice's ''Adding Machine,'' first produced at the Next Theater in Evanston, opened at the Minetta Lane Theater. It was among the best-received Off Broadway productions of last season and had a healthy run of five months -- impressive for a small-scaled, pitch-black musical. Mr. Cromer won Obie and Lucille Lortel awards for his work. 
 So why isn't he ensconced in the country's theater capital by now, fielding offers from New York's major not-for-profit theaters? 
 The man himself points to the figure in the mirror, mostly. ''I have always been a little lazy,'' he confesses, speaking primarily of his decision to stay in Chicago as his career developed, rather than head east at some point to bring it to the next level. ''I may not be the most adventurous person.'' And he's been busy working. 
 He has only recently acquired a New York agent. (''There really are no agents for directors in Chicago,'' he notes.) A tinge of wistfulness can be detected when he speaks of his happy experiences working in New York -- albeit under the relatively risk-free conditions of restaging well-received work. 
 ''It still has a romance for me, a romance that would probably evaporate soon if I move there,'' he says. ''And I don't think I would have survived in New York as a young man. I was too sad.'' 
 Mr. Cromer, who is now 44 and can be melancholy and funny at once, directs a wide range of work, old and new. (Next up: Aaron Sorkin's ''Farnsworth Invention'' at the Alley Theater in Houston.) His productions are marked by a delicate touch and an emotional intricacy that are best served by a seat in the front row. But the remarkable thing about his work is that you always seem to have a prime view, even if you're up against the back wall. I was at the back of the theater when I saw Mr. Cromer's heart-rending production of Inge's ''Come Back, Little Sheba,'' but the transparency of the acting was such that every quicksilver flicker of emotion registered crisply. (That production, for the tiny Shattered Globe Theater company in 2006, was infinitely superior to the limp version seen on Broadway last season.) ''Our Town,'' which Mr. Cromer staged with the actors surrounding an audience of a few dozen seated in just six rows, gave a sharp contemporary accent to a play that often comes wreathed in folksy warmth, despite its thorny message of life's dissatisfactions. 
 ''I saw a review of the original production that said it was 'the last word in avant-garde theater,' with its stage directions requiring no scenery, and the dead people speaking,'' Mr. Cromer says. ''But what was at one point innovative had become standard vocabulary for the theater. How do you strip the artifice away today, get it back to its original cool?'' 
 Mr. Cromer's approach took Thornton Wilder's stark ethos a bit further. His production is mostly performed with the house lights up, and the actors wear street clothes and forgo New England accents. But he springs a startling surprise in the last scene that adds a vivid accent to its sharp philosophical thrust. And to watch this play about the little pleasures and big heartbreaks of life amid an audience whose responses become part of the fabric of the play added a moving dimension to it. 
 It was hard not to feel with unusual potency the pain of life's fragility as you sat cheek by jowl with the inhabitants of the Grover's Corners cemetery. Almost anybody in the audience could reach out and touch one of the becalmed deceased sitting placidly in their chairs. 
 Anna D. Shapiro, the Chicago director who won a Tony Award for ''August'' this year, has known Mr. Cromer since they studied directing together at Columbia College here. (They actually went to the same high school, but they didn't know each other then.) She has seen almost all his work and says she considers precision to be his greatest strength as a director.
 ''His interpretations never feel general or vague,'' she says. ''He's got a meticulous brain. And he's not driven by overarching external ideas about a play. Everything that's happening in David's productions is happening between people. He's also completely unafraid of sentiment, but he delivers the sentimental in an honorable way.'' 
 Mr. Cromer confirms that he never approaches a text with an idea of imposing a radical interpretation on it. ''More and more I'm obsessed with taking a close-up approach, letting the audience come to us. But it's not what you can do to the play but what the play does to you, really,'' he says. '' 'Our Town' and 'Picnic' were very different experiences. 'Our Town' was almost made up as we went along. One day in rehearsal we used real string beans and liked the sound of the snapping in the small space, so we kept it in. We started rehearsals with some roles uncast. 
 '' 'Picnic,' on the other hand, needed to be tightly controlled, down to the smallest detail. We obsessed about everything -- the strawberries on the cake, the number and color of the leaves.''
 He admits that he's been less than obsessive about guiding his career and that his meticulousness has sometimes caused friction with theaters. During a rough patch several years back he was on the outs with more than one Chicago-area theater. (He has since patched up the relationships.) Fortunately, there is always another scrappy theater company springing up in a storefront. 
 ''In New York there is a finite amount of space, so competition for that space is profound,'' he observes. ''Here we've got lots of room. It's the Midwest. The city is spread out, and there are lots of places to work. If things aren't going well, you don't have to leave,'' he says with a laugh. ''You can fail a lot while you're finding your way.'' 
 The economic imperative is not a factor as it inevitably is in New York, where the mercantile ethos of Broadway can insinuate itself into the mind-sets of even the not-for-profit theater. ''Our theater culture here is not commercial,'' Ms. Shapiro notes. ''Aspirational artists here are not looking at Broadway. The action is at the big not-for-profit theaters like the Steppenwolf and the Goodman. Our theatergoing public has that orientation as well.'' 
 Of course New York's renewed attention to Chicago theater over the past year has not gone unnoticed. ''People do have an eye to New York,'' Mr. Cromer says. ''It seems to happen every 20 years or so. In the '60s there was Alan Arkin and Barbara Harris and Nichols and May. Of course you had Mamet and the Steppenwolf in the 1980s. Now 'August' has made a big splash.''
 He is both level-headed and maybe a little sentimental -- honorably sentimental -- in discussing the centrality of New York in American theater culture. ''I don't think the theater is too New York-centric,'' he says. ''It just is New York-centric. But doesn't there have to be a place, a destination? The country is so big. Chicago is a great place to work, and it's a hell of a lot easier to live here. But I wouldn't want to lose New York as a sort of icon. There has got to be an Emerald City.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Cromer on the set of William Inge's ''Picnic,'' which he directed in Glencoe, a Chicago suburb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Some work from the Chicago director David Cromer: from left above, Bridgette Pechman, Hillary Clemens and Natasha Lowe in ''Picnic''
left, Mr. Cromer and Jennifer Grace on the set of ''Our Town''
and below, Joel Hatch and Amy Warren in the musical ''Adding Machine.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARGARET K. LAKIN
JANNA GIACOPPO
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (95%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); SUBURBS (70%); WRITERS (66%)

COMPANY: STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO (65%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



359 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Open the Door and Turn On the Lights

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
OPTIMISM surrounding last week's election and the promise of a new crew in Washington ran smack into the reality that we are still mired in a wicked financial mess. 
 The Labor Department reported on Friday that the unemployment rate jumped to 6.5 percent in October. And stocks are now 7 percent lower than they were on Election Day.
 Investors are surely eager for change in the stock market and the economy -- though, of course, a new team at the White House cannot make either turn on a dime. But President-elect Barack Obama can send a message to investors and taxpayers that he has their best interests at heart. 
 A strong first step would be to ensure that finance officials in charge of taxpayer-financed bailouts operate them with more transparency. And it would help the Treasury Department regain some public trust if the people running the bailouts were more forceful about extracting concessions from recipients of taxpayer dollars. 
 In short, the immediate opportunity of a new White House is to make sure that sweeping financial fixes are done properly, not just quickly.
 Recall that from the very start of this mess, major decisions have been made in a hurry, behind closed doors, with many of the participants unidentified. This has led to a natural suspicion among some analysts, financiers and politicians that special pleaders may be on the scene in these smoke-free rooms, securing special favors. 
 The secrecy and opacity that have surrounded some of the trickier decisions -- such as allowing Lehman Brothers to fail while saving Bear Stearns -- do not engender trust. They create distrust.
 Because taxpayers are financing these exercises, it seems only right that they know who was in on the decisions, why the decisions were made and who the prime beneficiaries were. It's been awfully frustrating to watch taxpayer money doled out to the same cast of characters -- commercial banks and brokerage firms -- that put the nation in such financial peril. 
 The decision to recapitalize the banks was wise. It is a necessary evil, alas, because making sure that money is available to finance a small business, buy a home or send a child to college is the best way to mitigate a recession's impact.
 But the fact that the Treasury seems to have attached no strings to the cash it handed to the big banks is inexplicably naive and indulgent. Now we have the spectacle of banks hoarding the taxpayer cash or refusing to pass along to suffering consumers any of the savings reaped by the institutions' reduced lending costs. This is both unfair and a recipe for a backlash. 
 HERE is another way the Treasury should be tougher on the institutions that are holding their hands out: force them to raise additional capital in the markets -- and swiftly. It may be bitter medicine to issue shares at depressed levels, but this may also be the best opportunity to do so. 
 Think back to what happened earlier this year with Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage finance company now being run by the government. In May, when its stock was trading around $27, Freddie Mac said it would raise $5.5 billion by issuing common and preferred shares. The stock rallied on the news because investors recognized that the company's capital needs were pressing. 
 But Freddie Mac never did raise the money. And three months later, the government took it over. Had Freddie Mac secured that extra capital, taxpayers would be less vulnerable to the losses they might now face as part of the federal bailout of the company.
 Lastly, a discussion is needed of how and when taxpayers may be able to exit the bailout business. Although it is understandable that some of the financing programs instituted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are open-ended, setting no time limits on the cash spigot is unnerving. 
 Consider the Fed's new commercial paper facility. It was set up on Oct. 20 to free the stalled market for short-term funds on which so many companies rely for their daily operations. Some $243 billion had been lent as of last week. And by all accounts, the program has helped to reduce the costs of borrowing in that market and helped get it moving again. 
 Clearly the program is necessary now. But it should have some type of maturity date. The problem with an open-ended program is that when interest rates rise, the costs to the taxpayer do, too.
 There is a lesson to be drawn from the difficulties that companies experienced before the Fed stepped in, when they couldn't tap the short-term money market: A commercial economy as large as ours should not be built on a short-term funding apparatus. 
 Indeed, it's just as perilous as constructing an enormous mortgage market on adjustable-rate loans. The sooner that companies curtail their reliance on this market to finance their day-to-day operations, the better off they will be. 
 Taxpayers and investors are paying dearly in this crisis. More transparency, tougher deal terms and clearer exit strategies would do a lot to ease our pain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



360 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Aim to Rebuild After a Bruising Election

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Yes, tears were shed, strong beverages were consumed and soul-searching was undertaken.
 Republicans in New York State, after a rough election night on Tuesday, say they fully realize they have hit rock bottom, or close to it. And now they are vowing to rebuild their shattered party, whose power has diminished to the point of near irrelevance in the Empire State. 
 ''Heads were down a little bit and we had a few tears, and some people were angry, and we had some people who were a bit fearful,'' said Lynn Krogh, 27, a former member of Gov. George E. Pataki's staff and the president of the New York Young Republican Club, describing the election night party -- if one can call it that -- she attended with several hundred Republicans in Manhattan. 
 Guy V. Molinari, the former Staten Island borough president, joked that he was helped along by ''a lot of booze'' at a gathering of friends -- ''no Democrats allowed'' -- who came to his condominium to watch the results. 
 Joseph N. Mondello, the state Republican Party chairman, watched the returns from party headquarters in Nassau County and tried to maintain perspective.
 ''I've been in more somber moods,'' he said. ''Remember '64? And '74 was no picnic either.''
 The picture is certainly bleak. Republicans lost control of the State Senate, which they had held since the mid-1960s. The number of Republicans in the Assembly fell to 41 out of 150 seats on Tuesday, an all-time low. 
 And only three Republicans remain among the state's 29-member Congressional delegation. The party does not hold a single statewide office. Worse, if things do not turn around in the 2010 elections, redistricting could give Democrats the edge for years to come. 
 ''The question is reversibility,'' Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science at the State University of New York at New Paltz, said in an interview last week. ''Can they come back?''
 He said Republicans were on the precipice of what he called ''the Massachus-ification of New York.'' (Democrats in Massachusetts control all six statewide offices, along with the State House of Representatives and the State Senate.)
 ''There will be occasionally competitive statewide elections but no chance for the reasonable, foreseeable future of being consequential in the Legislature in either house,'' Professor Benjamin said. 
 Republicans are vowing to regroup. The answer, many leaders of various ages and locales said, was a familiar one for parties in trouble. Get back to basics, embrace the party's core values and recruit a generation of younger leaders and voters.
 Of course, there are rifts. Some favor tacking right while others, like Ms. Krogh, say Republicans in New York have to devise a more inclusive strategy that appeals to social moderates as well as conservatives. 
 Republicans in the State Senate, which had been the party's last redoubt of power after Mr. Pataki left office two years ago, were increasingly aged; nearly half of them were at least 65. That old guard was dealt a blow when two veteran Republican lawmakers, Caesar Trunzo, 82, of Long Island, and Serphin R. Maltese, 75, of Queens, were decisively defeated on Tuesday. 
 Some see the loss of the State Senate as liberating. To some conservatives, Senate Republicans have committed ideological heresy by drifting to the left of Gov. David A. Paterson, a Democrat, on fiscal issues. The image of Senate Republicans rallying behind Albany special-interest groups like teacher and hospital unions to defend against budget cuts threatened by Democratic governors has rattled the party faithful.
 ''It looks like, under the philosophy of you reap what you sow, Joe Bruno's crop came in,'' said Robert Smith, a former Republican chairman in Onondaga County, referring to Joseph L. Bruno, the longtime Senate majority leader who resigned this summer. Mr. Smith feuded with the Senate leadership during his tenure. 
 ''There was no philosophical compass left among the Senate Republicans, maybe a few, but not in the leadership,'' he said, adding, ''It was all about how do we get elected and pull in even bigger contributions.''
 Mr. Mondello echoed that idea, saying that Republican candidates have to highlight their differences with Democrats. 
 He said he was speaking broadly and ''not criticizing the Senate.''
 ''The Republican Party as a body has been slipping and sliding,'' he said. ''We have to get away from the me-too type thing.''
 John McArdle, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, said, ''Given the tsunami and overwhelming Democrat victories in this state and across the country, we did very well, particularly upstate.
 ''Everybody agrees we have to rebuild,'' he said. ''Going forward, what we have to establish this year is to fight for lower taxes, and Senator Skelos has made lowering property taxes a priority coming in -- that is the tax New Yorkers find most onerous and burdensome. Beyond that, it's about jobs and the economy.''
 Many upstate lawmakers believe geography could become a more potent issue going forward, now that New York City lawmakers will control the governor's office, the Senate and the Assembly.
 ''Over the next two years, there will be a report card on whether the needs of the upstate are being addressed,'' said Senator Joseph A. Griffo, a Republican from Rome, N.Y. ''The concern I have is that one-party, one-region dominance is unhealthy. It doesn't truly reflect the state.''
 Much will be determined by who emerges to lead the party -- and run for office. Many party officials are hoping Rudolph W. Giuliani will run for governor, because few other potential candidates have his high profile. He is said to be considering a challenge to Mr. Paterson, but has yet to publicly discuss whether he might do so. 
 Mr. Mondello, who also leads the Nassau County Republican Party, said he had no intention of stepping down after two years on the job, although there have been rumblings in some corners that the party needs a fresh start. 
 ''I don't have any particular problems with Joe Mondello, but when you look around the state, and Nassau County particularly, when you see what's happened there, it's almost something you want to cry over,'' said Mr. Molinari, referring to Democratic gains in what was once one of the most reliable Republican counties in the nation. 
 ''I would prefer to see somebody new, some young face, somebody aggressive'' leading the party, he added. 
 Ms. Krogh, who now works for the architect Daniel Libeskind, said, ''You don't need the same old, same old saying they're going to build the party.
 ''With all due respect, we're now facing one of the biggest defeats the party has faced in New York,'' she added. ''They should have been building already.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); REDISTRICTING (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



361 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: A Postelection Pump Bump?

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
SO you thought the worst was over at the pump? Think again, said David Blume, executive director of the International Institute for Ecological Agriculture. 
 Mr. Blume, who is an expert on ethanol, says that gasoline prices are poised to rise again now that the 2008 elections are out of the way. 
 After sifting through 20 years of data from the Energy Information Administration, Mr. Blume claims to have uncovered a pattern: ''Prior to each national election in the U.S., the price of oil plummets for a several-month cycle prior to November voting, and then immediately climbs back up to record-setting highs by about March 1 of the new year.''
 His theory rests partly on the idea that incumbent politicians, not wanting to be blamed for rising gas prices, give oil companies concessions to keep prices down.
 Mr. Blume appears to have gotten the first half of his claim correct: oil prices peaked in July and have declined steadily since then. What role the national elections played is unclear, though; the widespread economic turmoil has slowed demand in the United States and around the world.
 A day after Barack Obama was elected president, the average price for a gallon of gas in New York City went down, not up, falling 1.5 cents to $2.825 on Wednesday, according to the AAA's Fuel Gauge Report. A month ago, the price was $3.68.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ALCOHOLS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ETHANOL (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



362 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5008 words

HEADLINE: Check Cashers, Redeemed

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS McGRAY. 
Douglas McGray is an Irvine fellow at the New America Foundation.

 BODY:
The lobby of the Nix Check Cashing outlet on South Figueroa and West Imperial, in the Watts neighborhood of south Los Angeles, was bright and loose. Twenty or so people, black and Latino, dressed in jeans and T-shirts or sport jerseys or work uniforms, stood in a line that snaked back from a long row of bulletproof cashiers' windows all the way to the front door. The room was loud, in a friendly way; everyone seemed to be talking with everyone else. Every once in a while, all together, the line would erupt into raucous laughter. 
 ''Next customer,'' said a cashier, Joseph, a young black guy with a sweet, quiet manner. He wore black sneakers, black Dickies and a white polo shirt with a Nix logo -- a retail uniform. 
 The customer at the window next to Joseph's looked over her shoulder. ''Sister!'' she yelled. ''Next in line!'' 
 It didn't feel like a bank.
 Twenty or thirty years ago, traditional financial institutions fled neighborhoods like Watts, and guys like Tom Nix, co-founder of the biggest chain of check cashers and payday lenders in Southern California, rushed into the vacuum. They built a whole new financial subculture, which now includes regional giants like Nix, national brands like Ace Cash Express, Advance America and Check 'n Go and thousands of local chains and anonymous corner stores -- more outlets, in total, than all the McDonald's restaurants in the United States plus all the Starbucks coffee shops. Inside, it's like banking turned upside down. Poor customers are commodities, deposits are irrelevant, bad credit makes for a good loan candidate and recessions can be boom times. Add up all those small transactions and throw in businesses like pawnshops and auto-title lenders, and you've got a big industry -- $100 billion annually and growing. Nix alone pulled in $28 million in fees last year. 
 ''Next customer,'' Joseph said. A guy slid his paycheck and a Nix ID card under the window. Joseph stamped the check, placed it under a gunmetal contraption called a photoscope, next to the ID card, and pulled a lever, thunk, which snapped a picture of the man, his ID and his check on a single negative. Then he counted out 20s. ''Do you want to pay any bills today?'' Joseph asked. ''You get five free money orders with that.'' 
 There are two big problems with businesses like Nix Check Cashing. One is that the fees are high. Most cashers pocket between 2 and 4 percent of each check's value, which a recent Brookings Institution study calculated could add up to $40,000 in fees over a customer's working life. And their version of credit, a two- or four-week cash advance against a postdated check, known as a payday loan, is even pricier -- about 30 times the annualized interest rate of a typical credit card. 
 The second problem is that cashing your paycheck, instead of depositing it, encourages you to spend all your money rather than saving whatever is left over at the end of the month. (Down the counter, a pair of young black women in tight, bright tops looked around a bit nervously as a cashier counted out thousands in small bills. ''It's tax-refund time,'' the cashier told me as the women walked out.)
 But it's also true that traditional banks are far from blameless, especially where low-income customers are concerned, and check cashers and payday lenders do get some important things right. ''If they're properly regulated and scrutinized, there's nothing wrong with check cashing as a concept and there's nothing wrong with payday loans as a concept,'' Robert L. Gnaizda, general counsel for the Greenlining Institute, a California nonprofit focused on financial services and civil rights, told me. ''And there's nothing automatically good about free checking accounts if you have multiple fees whenever you make the most minor mistake.''
 Today's financial crisis has many origins. But here's one cause that is often overlooked: Traditional bankers badly misread the market for financial services in low-to-moderate-income communities. ''Banks have been approaching these customers purely from a short-term-gain perspective, and they've missed opportunities,'' Matt Fellowes, director of the Pew Safe Banking Opportunities Project, told me. Banks declined to offer small, simple lines of credit to poor and blue-collar customers, leaving them to payday lenders, while they pushed high-limit, high-interest credit cards on everyone and acquired hundreds of billions in subprime debt. They undervalued the hundreds of billions a year in modest paychecks that pass through a place like Nix and ended up short on cash. Now that the economy has turned ugly, these poor and blue-collar customers are the hardest-squeezed. Payday loans are up, Nix told me when I spoke to him recently, and check-cashing revenue is down. 
 Legislators around the country have identified savings as a way to shore up low-income communities and expand the middle class. There are a few significant bills before Congress, and more at the state level, that would help poor and working-class families save money -- like increasing the amount welfare recipients are allowed to sock away before the system cuts off their benefits. But some 28 million Americans still go without a bank account, including more than 20 percent of Latino and African-American households, and more than 50 million have no credit score, which means no access to mainstream credit. These are the people in line at Nix. 
 A number of city and state governments have announced moratoriums on new check-cashing stores or set a ceiling on their fees. Fifteen states, including New York, have either outlawed payday lending or capped interest rates low enough to make it a money loser. And in 2006, Congress effectively banned payday loans to military personnel anywhere in the country. At the same time, lawmakers have tried to nudge banks toward low-income customers. By the end of the year, in the biggest effort yet, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California plans to announce the rollout of an initiative called Bank on California -- a concept piloted in 2006 in San Francisco, where the mayor's office persuaded banks to relax their standards, and in some cases their fees, for new account holders in exchange for a free marketing push from the city in poor neighborhoods. Officials from several other states, interested in copying the idea, will visit California for the kickoff, and more than three dozen cities, including Seattle, Los Angeles and Savannah, Ga., are already drawing up their own versions.
 But while regulation has curbed some of the worst excesses of the alternative financial-services industry and made mainstream banking more accessible, there remains a big gap between those worlds. As C. K. Prahalad, the economist and author of ''The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid,'' told me, ''We don't think enough about how to migrate from one to the other in a sensible way.'' Check cashers and payday lenders want to keep their customers, and banks tend to be ambivalent about luring them away or unsure how to do it. 
 Tom Nix's life, and his work, is the story of how we got here, to a separate and mostly unequal financial industry for the poor. But it may also be the story of a new way out. Last fall, Nix sold his entire chain for $45 million to one of the country's largest credit unions, Kinecta, which turned around and gave him an unlikely assignment: Put a credit-union window in every Nix store and help Kinecta take mainstream banking services to some of L.A.'s poorest neighborhoods -- by thinking less like a bank and more like a check casher. 
 ''They're absolutely blazing a new path,'' says Jennifer Tescher, director of the Center for Financial Services Innovation, a nonprofit research group affiliated with Chicago's Shore Bank. ''They bought the chain wholesale and then kept Tom Nix as an executive, which in many ways is very smart.'' A few banks and credit unions have tried retail check-cashing start-ups, or arm's-length partnerships with existing check cashers, but they've come at the industry as outsiders. Bankers were always in charge. Or they operated on a comparatively small scale. Nix Check Cashing carries a million customers in its database. 
 ''I've always wanted to vilify check cashers,'' says Elwood Hopkins, a consultant working with the L.A. mayor's office on the city's version of a Bank on California scheme. ''And this is in no way a defense of the fees. But I think financial institutions have a lot to learn from them.'' 
 Tom Nix is tall and trim with short gray hair, narrow-set eyes and faintly ruddy skin. He has a 40-foot boat he likes to sail off Catalina Island, and the sticker on the bumper of his new Lexus says that that's what he'd rather be doing. He wears a conservative suit, a banker's suit, even for ambling around Compton and Watts, which he does like a small-town mayor, greeting everyone who passes by. ''How you doing?'' he said, nodding, as we passed a young black guy in a baggy Sixers jersey that hung down to his knees. Nix is white; most of his customers are not.
 Nix got into check cashing by accident. His dad, Tom Nix Sr., managed a fleet of drivers who delivered bread door to door, the way the milkman delivered milk. By the 1960s, delivery was a dying business, but at the warehouse in south L.A. where Nix's drivers loaded their trucks, locals, mostly poor, mostly black, would come around to buy day-old bread. So Nix's father started selling groceries out of the warehouse. 
 Nix took me to see the old store. Now it's called Pancho Grande. A mural of the Virgin Mary, in bright hues, stands taller than the door. The neighborhood, once almost entirely black, is now mostly Latino, Nix explained, a shift that happened across south L.A. as immigrants came up from Mexico and black families left for the inland suburbs. When the Nix store was here, mom-and-pop grocery stores and liquor places usually cashed checks free. But between bad checks and bounced checks, shopkeepers in the neighborhood lost money, even though they would turn away people who looked risky -- whatever risky looked like to them. So in the early 1970s, Nix Jr., who had become his father's partner, made a photo ID for their customers and ordered his first photoscope, then an arcane new security tool. Soon Nix was cashing checks for anyone who walked in, doing it fast and cutting the family's losses. ''People lined up down these stairs,'' he said, pointing to the store's office at the back. ''All the way down the center aisle and out to the sidewalk.'' 
 For most of the 20th century, banking was a protected business. If you wanted to open a new bank, you had to go before a board of regulators and prove you wouldn't provide competition that would threaten an existing bank in the neighborhood. In exchange for a captive market, banks had to abide by strict rules. But in the mid 1970s, regulators started to allow more competition. Banks had to pay closer attention to their profits and their losses. Suddenly, Nix's local bank began charging him a fee to deposit checks into his commercial account. Nix realized he either had to stop cashing checks for people or start charging them for the service. 
 ''We charged a dime at first,'' Nix recalled. ''People got mad, they left, but in a couple months, business returned. Then we charged 35 cents. Same thing happened. Then we started to charge 1 percent. We began to realize this might be a business.'' 
 In 1978, Nix leased an old gas station in Watts and built it into what looked like a tiny, stripped-down bank. He called it Nix Check Cashing. A year later, he was cashing a million dollars in checks each week. Then in 1980, Congress began to deregulate the banking industry. Branches sprouted in rich neighborhoods, where they battled one another for the wealthiest depositors, and they shut down in poor and working-class neighborhoods. Where they remained, they introduced new fees for customers who kept little in their accounts for the bank to invest. Around the country, the check-cashing business boomed. Nix opened new stores as fast as he could raise capital. Any place the banks neglected, that was the real estate he wanted. By the end of the 1980s, Nix had grown big enough to get name-checked by the Beastie Boys: ''I'm charming and dashing/I'm rental-car bashing/Phony-paper passing/At Nix Check Cashing.'' 
 ''That's name recognition!'' Nix told me with a smile. 
 Times have changed, somewhat. Today more than 90 percent of check cashers and payday lenders sit within a mile of a bank, according to a recent Brookings Institution report. It's no longer primarily geography, in other words, that is keeping banks and poor customers apart. ''Banks aren't shying away from low- and moderate-income neighborhoods,'' says Fellowes, the report's author. But, he added, ''they're not going after the opportunity in an informed-enough manner to be very successful.'' 
 The first thing you notice when you walk in the door at Nix is a list of products, services and prices, a bit like a fast-food menu. Some of the prices are quite high, but the charges are neither confusing nor deceptive. ''They're going to charge you $13, is that O.K.?'' a cashier -- young, Latina, long blond hair, long pink nails -- asked as a bulky, middle-aged guy handed over a stack of cash to send via Moneygram. 
 Even the payday loans are transparent. ''Your max is $150, so make it out for $172.50,'' the cashier Joseph told a stocky black woman in a baseball cap, standing at the counter with an open checkbook. (Unlike check-cashing customers, payday borrowers are by necessity bank customers -- they have to write a postdated check to get a loan.) The woman was paying a lot -- $22.50 to borrow $150 for just two weeks. But there were no surprises, no hidden fees. 
 Compare that with what a lot of banks do. Bank of America took heat earlier this year for more than doubling the interest rate on some credit-card accounts, even if the cardholder pays every bill on time. Banks, meanwhile, have nearly quadrupled their fee income in the last decade, according to the F.D.I.C., while credit-card late charges and over-limit charges have nearly tripled. Fees imposed on customers for temporarily overdrawing their accounts -- by accident or on purpose -- have been particularly lucrative; banks made $25.3 billion in 2006 on overdraft-related fees, up 48 percent in two years, according to the Center for Responsible Lending. On the Web site of Strunk and Associates, a big seller of overdraft programs, bank and credit-union executives offer glowing testimonials. ''Strunk's program has exceeded expectations,'' one writes. ''We have generated a 100 percent increase in overdraft revenue.''
 Some customers choose Nix over a bank because it is cheaper than paying overdraft fees. For others, it's convenient. Some go to Nix because check cashing is what they know. Others go because they live in communities where nobody takes a check or a card, not even the landlord, and cash machines are scarce. Still others go because they always seem to have a Final Notice in the bill stack, and they can't wait a week or longer for a paycheck to clear -- that includes a lot of people with a bank account somewhere. 
 But there are less-obvious factors too. Nix hires from the neighborhood and pays well enough that cashiers stick around. Word spreads, and in Watts or Highland Park or Pacoima, that reputation often carries more weight than some bank ad on a bus stop. ''It's social marketing 101,'' says Hopkins, the consultant. 
 I frequently saw cashiers address customers by name and ask about family or friends in common. One customer asked if the manager could come over, then broke the news that her husband had passed away. ''What happened?'' the manager gasped. Then, shaking her head: ''He always came in with his pennies.'' And Nix dresses up branches less formally than banks do -- no suits, no office furniture, no carpeting -- so a construction worker can show up straight from his shift, in dirty clothes, and, Nix says, not feel out of place.
 Nix's cashiers also try to never say no. Take photo identification. A lot of customers don't have a driver's license. Nix stores have accepted high-school yearbooks. They've been known to cash a McDonald's paycheck if someone comes in wearing a McDonald's uniform. They even have a phone in the lobby, so a cashier can call a customer's job site and then patch the customer in, listen to him talk to his supervisor and decide if they sound like a legitimate boss and employee. Nix says he loses as much as 5 percent of his check-cashing revenue on bad checks, but it's worth it, he says, to be known as a place that says yes.
 I met Oscar Enriquez leaving the Nix branch in Highland Park, a working-class area near Pasadena. He was skinny and just shy of middle age, with a quick grin and tattoos down his sunburned forearms. Enriquez worked in the neighborhood as a street cleaner; he picks up trash and scrubs graffiti. The job paid about $425 a week, he told me, a good chunk of which he wired to his wife, who has been living in Mississippi and taking care of her ailing mother. He told me he tries to avoid debt whenever he can. ''If I don't have money, I wait until the next payday,'' he said firmly. ''That's it.'' But he pays a fee to cash his paychecks. Then he pays even more to send a Moneygram to his wife. There's a bank, just down the street, that could do those things free. I asked him why he didn't take his business there.
 ''Oh, man, I won't work with them no more,'' Enriquez explained. ''They're not truthful.'' 
 Two years ago, Enriquez opened his first bank account. ''I said I wanted to start a savings account,'' he said. He thought the account was free, until he got his first statement. ''They were charging me for checks!'' he said, still upset about it. ''I didn't want checks. They're always charging you fees. For a while, I didn't use the bank at all, they charged like $100 in fees.'' Even studying his monthly statements, he couldn't always figure out why they charged what they charged. Nix is almost certainly more expensive, but it's also more predictable and transparent, and that was a big deal to Enriquez. 
 Marlo Lopez had no broad gripe with banks, but his experience was similar. He moved to the United States from Peru a couple of years ago (with a visa) and got a job as a mechanic at a food-processing plant. Lopez opened his first bank account last summer. A couple of months later, out for dinner, he overdrew his account by 18 cents and got hit with a $35 penalty. It was his fault, he said; he thought he had more in the account than he did. Still, losing that money all at once unsettled him. He kept the account but returned to cashing his checks at Nix.
 In the spring of 2007, Nix was working hard to unload his business. He had actually been trying to sell his chain to a bank for more than a decade, and now he was running out of time. He was about to turn 60, and he thought he owed his family (and his investors) an exit. Nix wanted to sell high to a responsible bank, retire well and be a hero, the guy who took real banking to L.A.'s poorest neighborhoods. But the most likely buyer was another check-cashing chain. Nix was prepared to do the deal, but it was not how he dreamed of going out. 
 Then Kinecta Federal Credit Union called with its offer. ''We were trying to understand why check cashers have been successful in underserved areas where banks haven't,'' Kinecta's president and C.E.O., Simone Lagomarsino, told me. What they concluded was that most banks simply didn't know low-income neighborhoods or understand them. ''We go in with this cookie-cutter approach: This is our branch, this is our way we do business,'' she says.
 As Nix and Lagomarsino negotiated the sale, he encouraged her to make it easier for his customers to open a bank account. At most banks, if you've bounced too many checks, you're banned for five to seven years. Lagomarsino agreed to reduce that limbo period to one year. Next she realized she would need to deal with the most controversial part of Nix's business, the payday loans. At first, she told me, ''I assumed we wouldn't do them.'' Nix actually felt the same way, once. In the late 1980s, when a few check cashers started to accept postdated personal checks and advance cash for a fee, Nix thought it was a sleazy scheme. He thought so even after California legalized the practice in 1997. ''I didn't want to be a loan shark,'' he told me. ''But the reality is, customers wanted it.'' 
 He told Lagomarsino why. A bounced check, a fee to reconnect a utility, a late-payment fee on your credit card, or an underground loan, any of those things can cost more than a payday loan. And then there are overdraft charges. ''Banks, credit unions, we've been doing payday loans, we just call it something different,'' Lagomarsino says. ''When it starts to get used like a payday loan, it's worse.'' 
 The payday borrowers I met at Nix were a complex group. There was Johnny Bravo, an ex-marine, now a harried delivery driver. (''I'm not even supposed to be here,'' he said, rushing back to his truck with a fold of bills.) He told me he gets a payday loan every other Friday, pretty much without fail. Sometimes he needs it for bills. Sometimes it's for gas -- he owns a big, thirsty S.U.V. But mostly he described the loan as cash to enjoy his weekend. 
 ''How much do you think you spend a year on payday loans?'' I asked. 
 ''Well, finance is about 45 dollars; add that up . . . ,'' he said, and paused. ''Comes out to a pretty good chunk of change,'' he admitted. ''But I don't think of it that way.''
 Bravo is exactly the kind of case consumer advocates bring up when they call for a ban on payday loans. But for better or worse, the guy loves Nix. ''They treat me with respect, they're really nice,'' he said. He's especially fond of the manager, Beatriz. She grew up in the neighborhood and has worked at Nix for almost 20 years now. 
 Then there was Carlos Garcia. He got out of the military, got some credit cards and got in trouble. It took him a few years to pay off his debt. Now he's careful, but money is still tight. He usually works two full-time jobs, and he earns enough for himself. He has a couple of brothers, though, who have been out of work, and he has his mother to help look after. That takes him to Nix a few times a year for a loan. But he's strategic. ''I get it because I want to make a payment on time,'' he said. He does the math, he told me, and borrows only when the fee for a small loan will cost less than the penalty for a late car payment or an overdraft charge.
 As different as they are when it comes to money, Garcia and Bravo agreed on one thing: ''I don't use credit cards,'' Bravo said. ''I don't want to get into debt.'' That may sound crazy coming from a guy who spends more than $1,000 a year to borrow a thin stack of 20s over and over, but he had a point. It may be hard, some months, to pay off a $255 payday loan. But credit cards can get you into more serious trouble; credit-card debt can add up fast and linger for years. 
 Kinecta's executives decided to keep the payday loan and change the terms. Starting with three stores in the spring, and eventually across the entire chain, Nix is increasing the maximum loan from $255 to $400. They are dropping the fee from 18 percent ($45 for a two-week $255 loan) to 15 percent ($60 for a two-week $400 loan). And they will rebate a third more ($20, in the case of a $400 loan) into a savings account, after six months, if you pay your loans back and don't bounce any checks. People get payday loans because they have no savings, Lagomarsino explained. After six months, heavy payday borrowers will accumulate a small balance. Enough, she and Nix say they hope, to convince them they can afford to save more. Later, they say, they intend to drop fees further for borrowers who always pay back on time.
 Once Kinecta finishes rolling out its new payday loans, Lagomarsino has promised to open Nix's books to outside researchers and publish data on its profits and losses. In the meantime, Kinecta will be under enormous scrutiny. ''Some people said, 'Why does it have to be so visible?' '' Lagomarsino told me, and laughed. ''One or two branches wouldn't make a difference. This is the beauty of buying Nix. They were the largest alternative financial-services company in Southern California. If they change their fee structure, everyone has to change.'' 
 At the Nix Check Cashing in Highland Park, one of Kinecta's first credit-union windows opened at the end of April. It's a tiny branch, squeezed into a strip mall, a few storefronts down from a slummier-looking check casher and across the parking lot from an Advance America branch. By the door, a hand-drawn whiteboard advertised free checking and savings accounts. Inside, customers had to pass through a gantlet of Kinecta signs (''free,'' ''we're all about convenience'') to reach the check-cashing windows. Then, whenever someone slipped a check across the counter (or bought a bus pass, or mobile-phone minutes, or a prepaid debit card), Nix tellers asked if they'd like to open a free savings or checking account with a $5 deposit. 
 I expected mostly brushoffs. But people had questions. Lots of them, actually. (What's a credit union? Are there fees? What's the minimum balance? Can I deposit my checks at Nix for free?) Often people started in with the questions as soon as they got to the window, before the cashiers got around to a sales pitch. That doesn't mean they all signed up. Most of them didn't. But several did, and very few rejected the idea outright. 
 When I visited Nix in his new office at Kinecta, he seemed optimistic about the new business. ''I've been trying to do this banking thing for more than 15 years,'' he said. ''If we do it, the rest of the industry copies us.'' But, he said, ''it has to be a viable business model.'' 
 Nix's definition of ''viable'' means some public criticism is bound to follow him to Kinecta. Even after knocking more than 30 percent off the fees, Nix's payday loans are still expensive, and Nix says he hopes to issue more of them, not fewer, because Nix stores will be cheaper than the competition. The fees are still astronomical, and more troubling, right now the average borrower at Nix takes out seven loans a year -- with fees than can equal an annualized interest rate of 312 percent. ''Any form of credit can be abused,'' Nix said when I asked him about the problem of repeat customers. ''There's the guy who gets five credit cards. For some reason, it's O.K. when it's a mainstream product. There's a double standard.''
 It's going to take a lot of $20 rebates from Nix before someone with a payday-loan problem would accumulate any real savings. I asked Nix if he would consider advertising to these customers, straight out, that payday loans are bad for them. What about check-cashing customers who, out of habit, resist the idea of signing up for a bank account that would save them money? 
 ''The last thing I want to tell someone who's been my customer for 20 years is, 'You've been a fool for 20 years, you never should have been coming in,' '' Nix said, with a sudden edge in his voice. ''I want to create choice.'' 
 Selling to the poor is a tricky business. Poor people pay more for just about everything, from fresh groceries to banking; Prahalad, the economist, calls it the ''poverty penalty.'' They pay more for all kinds of reasons, but maybe most of all because mainstream firms decline to compete for their business. Nix has served customers that traditional financial institutions neglected, but he has also profited from that neglect. Whether he profited too much, charging poor communities what the market would bear -- that's a moral question as much as an economic one. And there's no simple answer. 
 Not everyone is ready to trust Nix's motives just yet, or to embrace him as a champion of the poor, especially consumer advocates who have spent years lobbying to cap check-cashing and payday-loan rates and remember when Nix charged even more than he does today. ''It behooves predatory companies like Nix to be seen positively by their communities,'' says Roberto Barragan, president of the Valley Economic Development Center and a critic of Nix from way back. ''But at the end of the day, it's not about the financial well-being of his customers.''
 For now, most banks remain reluctant to fight with check cashers and payday lenders for low-income customers; they don't believe there's enough in it for them. Just a few years ago, though, wire-transfer companies like Western Union were the only option for immigrants who wanted to send money abroad. Banks thought it was a sketchy business. The transfer companies charged about the same as a payday loan, $15 to send $100 to Latin America. But then a few banks decided to compete with them, even accepting foreign ID cards. And then banks started to compete with one another. And pretty soon, just about every bank wired money overseas. Businesses like Western Union had to slash their fees by nearly two-thirds. 
 ''These communities spend about $11 billion a year on ghettoized financial services, about the same as what Wall Street spends on mergers-and-acquisitions fees,'' says John Hope Bryant, founder of the nonprofit Operation Hope. ''We're not talking about small change. But there's no competition for these dollars.'' That's the idea behind plans like Bank on California: to convince banks that marketing themselves to poor customers isn't just a charitable act; it's a benefit to the bottom line.
 Nix says he hopes his model will do the same thing. ''We're going to be a tough competitor,'' he told me. ''We're going to get a lot of business, and that's going to force the rest of the industry to take a look at their prices, to be able to compete.'' It's not how you expect a banker to the poor to talk. But he might be onto something. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sufficient funds (for a price): Tom Nix near a Nix check-cashing outlet in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN STEPHENS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MM36 and MM37)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN STEPHENS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MM40)
 The friendly neighborhood unbank: Customers at a Nix check-cashing outlet in Inglewood, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN STEPHENS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MM41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FAST FOOD (73%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); NIX CO LTD (68%); ACE CASH EXPRESS INC (54%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



363 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; OPEN SPACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Preservation of Shoreline Forest Seen as Helped by a Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
THE Wall Street financial meltdown may have one bright spot for state and local officials and environmental groups that have worked for a decade to preserve as publicly owned open space a 1,000-acre swath of shoreline in Old Saybrook, Essex and Westbrook.
 The property, situated just north of Interstate 95 and west of the Connecticut River, is owned by a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers, which is now bankrupt. Before last month's financial crisis, plans were to develop the parcel into a community called the Preserve that included 200 houses and a golf course. 
 Many of those who favor the state's acquisition of the property say they believe the Lehman collapse is nothing but good news for the long-standing efforts to keep the section of forest sprinkled with ponds, marshes and granite outcroppings in its natural state. Respected environmental groups like the Nature Conservancy, Connecticut Fund for the Environment and the Audubon Society all contend it is environmentally crucial to keep the Preserve from being developed because it is the largest unprotected coastal forest between the Connecticut River and New York City.
 Part of the parcel abuts some 500 acres of protected open space.
 ''The state's interest in purchasing and preserving it remains strong,'' said Dennis Schain, communications director for the State Department of Environmental Protection. ''We've continued to make our interests known to Lehman Brothers and their representatives.''
 Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, another vocal advocate of the state's effort to buy the land, said he had what he characterized as recent meaningful discussions with Lehman representatives. But Mr. Blumenthal said that the financial giant's bankruptcy did not mean such a purchase would be simple, or even imminent.
 ''The initial first blush reaction is that there could be a fire sale of Lehman assets,'' he said. ''But the reality is that the bankruptcy court would not allow Lehman assets to be sold at bargain basement prices. There are a lot of creditors out there.''
 A prime reason the land is not already in the public's hands is that there is a wide gulf between the state's and Lehman Brothers' assessment of the property's value. In 2004, environmental groups and the Department of Environmental Protection were valuing the land at about $8,000 an acre, while its developers contended it was worth $23,000 an acre.
 Old Saybrook tax assessor records estimate the market value of the portion of the tract within that town is about $8 million, based on 2003 values. More than 900 acres of the Preserve are in Old Saybrook.
 A phone number for Sam Stern, a representative for The Preserve developers, has been disconnected, but Mr. Stern posted a blog comment late this summer contending the per acre value of the land averaged $33,854.
 Charles Rothenberger, staff lawyer for the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, said he hoped the recent Lehman bankruptcy would finally bring the two sides together in the dispute.
 ''Clearly, the Preserve has only been a drain on the Lehman company,'' he said. ''I would hope that a bankruptcy official would try to off-load it. The state is ready, willing and able to buy.''
 Mr. Schain at the Department of Environmental Protection also indicated the state's own deepening financial crisis would not likely affect its ability to buy the land if a price was reached.
 ''We would move quickly on this,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN DISPUTE: In Old Saybrook, a swath of the forest that environmental groups want to see preserved as publicly owned space. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); TAX ASSESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (56%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



364 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: The Perilous Intersection of Art and Religion

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
LATE last month, while the presidential election and the meltdown of the economy were dominating the news, a revival of a play portraying Jesus as a sexually active gay man opened with little notice for a two-week run at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater in Greenwich Village.
 When Terrence McNally's ''Corpus Christi'' was first produced in New York 10 years earlier, the Manhattan Theater Club said there were threats to burn down the theater, kill the staff and ''exterminate'' McNally. The play was canceled, but then reinstated after an outcry from other playwrights and the theater community. With protesters and counter-protesters in the street, the audience had to pass through metal detectors.
 This time, there were no protesters and no metal detectors, but The Times's coverage of ''Corpus Christi'' -- a sympathetic review and an article linking the uproar a decade ago to the murder of Matthew Shepard, a gay college student in Colorado -- hit a raw nerve with the group that organized the demonstrations against the play in 1998. 
 Bill Donohue, the president of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, called ''Corpus Christi'' a ''vile play'' and charged that The Times liked it ''not for artistic purposes but for its assault on Catholicism.'' He urged his members to write to the public editor, and more than 150 did.
 ''I am outraged that The Times would review such a disgusting and revolting play,'' wrote Brian Tennyson of Lakewood Ranch, Fla. Others accused The Times of regularly ignoring the sensibilities of Catholics and even church-bashing, and said it would never treat other religions the way it treats Catholicism. 
 It is tempting for a secular and culturally liberal newsroom like The Times's to dismiss such objections, especially because many appear to have come from people who neither saw the play nor read in full what The Times said about it. No self-respecting newspaper is going to avoid writing about a controversial work of art because it might offend some segment of the public. That would go against everything a newspaper stands for -- examination of anything that happens in the public square -- and Donohue told me he agreed that The Times should have covered the ''Corpus Christi'' revival. He just did not like what the newspaper said about it.
 A number of Catholics I spoke to expressed outrage or embarrassment at Donohue's methods. ''He overreacts; he caricatures the things he objects to,'' said Paul Baumann, editor of the independent Catholic magazine Commonweal, who himself gave ''Corpus Christi'' a negative review in 1998. ''He raises the temperature in the room in a very unhelpful way.'' 
 I found Donohue's language overheated, but I wound up thinking that he had put his finger on an interesting issue: how a newspaper like The Times, which devotes great space and energy to covering the arts, should deal with the frequent collisions between art and religion. The argument, as it did with ''Corpus Christi'' 10 years ago, often gets framed as a First Amendment fight between those championing freedom of speech and those seeking to stifle speech they object to. But lost in all of that can be the deeper story of the spiritual and religious tensions that gave rise to the art in the first place and the sensibilities of religious readers who may be struggling with aspects of their own faith.
 Peter Steinfels, the co-director of the Fordham Center on Religion and Culture and a religion columnist for The Times, said much of ''the arts over the last century or so have been adversarial'' to the church and traditional morality, creating a problem for secular media. ''Corpus Christi'' fits squarely in that tradition. Set in Corpus Christi, Tex., where McNally grew up, it turns the story of Jesus and his disciples into a parable about the persecution of gays. Along the way, it pushes what have to be hot buttons for many Christians. Jesus is born in a shabby motel room; loud, abusive heterosexual sex takes place in the room next door; Joseph is a boorish, profane carpenter; Mary isn't much of a mother; Jesus discovers he is gay and has sex (not on stage) with the young men who become his disciples; he performs miracles, officiates at a gay wedding, is ultimately betrayed by Judas and is crucified.
 Ben Brantley, the Times theater critic, was not impressed in 1998, calling ''Corpus Christi'' about as ''threatening, and stimulating, as a glass of chocolate milk'' and a ''lazy'' piece of writing. Donohue did not object to that review. Jason Zinoman, who reviewed the revival for The Times, seemed to find it a bit more appealing, saying ''there are moments of hard-won sentiment that will win over the biggest skeptic.''
 Zinoman called the play ''an earnest and reverent spin on the Jesus story, with some soft-spoken, gay-friendly politics thrown in.'' Donohue was infuriated because he said no play that depicted Jesus as sexually active, whether with men or women, could be ''reverent.'' Zinoman defended his description. He said the play was ''very faithful'' to the plot of the New Testament. But he said it had a ''point of view. It's certainly pro-gay-marriage and it's intolerant of prejudice against gay people.''
 But homosexual acts and same-sex marriage are against the teachings of the Catholic Church, and it seems to me that failing to acknowledge that central tension is almost failing to tell readers what the play is about. In it, one of the disciples quotes Scripture as saying that it is ''an abomination'' for a man to lie with a man, and ''they shall be put to death.'' The Jesus character, named Joshua, calls it ''a terrible passage'' and quotes instead, ''And God saw everything that He had made, and behold it was very good.''
 Had the review acknowledged, even in passing, why the play could be disturbing or challenging to many Christians, even those who do not agree with the teachings of the Catholic Church, I think it would have left Donohue no ground to stand on, and he told me he would not have complained.
 A few days earlier, an article by Mark Blankenship noted that ''American gay culture'' marked a ''doubly somber anniversary'' on Oct. 12, the death of Shepard and the final preview performance of ''Corpus Christi'' in 1998 after weeks of protests and bomb threats. He said the events were seen as ''stark reminders of lingering homophobia.''
 Gregory Wolfe, the publisher and editor of Image, a journal devoted to art shaped by religion, said: ''It is possible for a conscientious Catholic to protest the depiction of Jesus as a promiscuous gay man and not be homophobic. To think this way is perhaps to be in a complex and ambiguous position, but I would venture that millions of sincere Catholics find themselves in just such a position.''
 Blankenship said he meant only to single out those who made death threats and he was not suggesting that all those offended by the play were homophobic.
 In a different context recently, Bill Keller, the executive editor of The Times, told me that he believes The Times is a liberal newspaper ''in the sense that a liberal arts college is liberal -- generally secular in outlook, disinclined to take things on faith, nondogmatic, tolerant of and curious about a wide range of views and behaviors.''
 I think that is a good definition -- and that editors need to be sure that the wide range includes the views of the religious.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
I said incorrectly that Matthew Shepard had been murdered in Colorado. He died in a hospital there. Thank you to readers who pointed out that the fatal beating took place near Laramie, Wyo.
I said incorrectly that Matthew Shepard had been murdered in Colorado. He died in a hospital there. Thank you to readers who pointed out that the fatal beating took place near Laramie, Wyo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MURDER (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); METAL DETECTORS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); NEWSSTANDS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC LEAGUE FOR RELIGIOUS & CIVIL RIGHTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



365 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Think Again: Electric Car Has a Comeback

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
AMERICANS with long memories of electric vehicles will recall the brief flowering of the Think City, a plastic-bodied Norwegian-built battery car. 
 Ford bought Think's parent company, then known as Pivco Industries, for $23 million in 1999, but the car did not sell as strongly as Ford had hoped, so the company sold out in 2003. 
 The climate for electric vehicles is better now, though price, range, performance and the economic downturn are still daunting obstacles to significant sales numbers. 
 Looking to buck the odds, Think is back with a revamped City, though only in Europe. 
 Richard Canny, chief executive for Think, said the new City is ''night and day'' different from the earlier model, though both are made of recyclable plastic body panels with molded-in colors. The City is built on a new platform with a larger body, and it is fully capable of highway speeds.
 The car, which has been crash tested in Europe, is basically a two-seater, though 2+2 children's seats are available. It can reach 68 miles an hour and has a cruising range of 100 to 110 miles, roughly twice that of the earlier vehicle. It takes 12 hours to recharge the battery fully from a wall outlet. 
 The company's Web site says the car will sell for ''around $31,388'' in Europe. 
 The first market for this little car is Norway, which, Mr. Canny said, is particularly friendly to electric vehicles.
 ''There is no tax on the initial sale of electric cars, no annual road tax, no freeway tolls, free parking on public streets and they can use bus and taxi lanes,'' he said. ''Usage incentives like that make it compelling.''
 Mr. Canny cited other subsidies for electric cars in Denmark, where the Think will be offered later this year, as well as France and Spain. 
 ''We're interested in starting in the markets that are most attractive to E.V.'s, and for now that means Western Europe and Scandinavia,'' he said. ''But the U.S. is moving quickly to offer incentives, too.'' 
 Think North America was formed last year by the Norwegian parent company and two United States-based investment firms, Rockport Capital and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. General Electric has also invested $4 million. The North American company has a temporary base in Menlo Park, Calif.
 But according to Mr. Canny, a decision on a United States entry date won't be made until the first quarter of next year. 
 Think wants to set up a United States assembly plant, a process that Mr. Canny said would take slightly more than a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THINK CITY: Available this month in Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (62%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORWAY (94%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (78%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); WESTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



366 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Going Against the Grain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Challenging the Crowd in Whispers, Not Shouts'' (Economic View, Nov. 2), Robert Shiller cites research by the psychologist Irving L. Janis to understand how so many experts could have been mistaken about the housing bubble. Janis's book ''Groupthink'' retains its explanatory power today. 
 Consider America's health care system. Some economists and others have warned for decades that it is economically flawed and morally repugnant. Yet they are seldom heard in the councils of power in the health care industry, where their bold calls to normalize American health care by universalization go unheard by policy makers.
 Whether we like it or not, the Titanic of group cohesion and lock-step thought is often preferred. Will we have to wait until after the ship hits the iceberg to find that America's health care course is mistaken? Jack Labusch
 Niles, Ohio, Nov. 2
 To the Editor:
 I would slightly modify one part of the column's argument: Maverick opinions among economists employed by corporations and governments are usually tolerated and, at times, can win over an opposing majority when those views are optimistic and pro-growth. But when the minority opinion warns of crises or impending doom, and calls for policy changes that hamper growth, it is almost always ignored. Robert Pomice
 Middletown, N.J., Nov. 4
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (57%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



367 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Warming to a Life on Ice

BYLINE: By GARY B. BETTMAN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I GREW up principally in a single-parent household in Queens County on Long Island. When it came to rooting for sports teams, I gravitated toward expansion teams. Sports fans often pass down the history of their favorite teams to their children, but with an expansion team, you're living the team's history from the start. I became a Mets fan, as well as a Jets and an Islanders fan. 
 As a child, I wanted to be a lawyer. When I graduated from New York University School of Law and got a job with one of the big New York law firms, I felt I had fulfilled a lifetime dream. 
 Then, three years later, in 1981, I was asked to join the National Basketball Association as assistant general counsel. I remember the day I was offered the job. I thought I had died and gone to heaven. This was before the major sports teams had become the big business they are today. The business of sports and the law pertaining to the business were just beginning to evolve. 
 In 1993, I moved to the National Hockey League as the first commissioner. I loved the sport. I had had season tickets for the hockey team at Cornell, my alma mater, for my undergraduate years. 
 On March 23, 1994, the Los Angeles Kings were playing the Vancouver Canucks in Los Angeles. Wayne Gretzky was set to break Gordie Howe's record for most goals scored in the history of the game, and I was scheduled to make an on-ice presentation when Wayne scored the record goal. I had flown in from New York just in time to make the game. I stopped in the Canucks' locker room to use the restroom before the start of the game, just as the players were heading for the ice. 
 Their equipment manager hadn't seen me come in, and he locked the locker room from the outside as he left. I had to bang on the door to get someone to find the trainer and get the key. Luckily, I got out in time. It would have been a shame to have flown out for the game only to watch Wayne score the goal on TV from the locker room.
 My favorite part of the job is presenting the Stanley Cup -- standing on the ice and being that close to the emotion of the moment. During Game 7 of the 1993-94 Stanley Cup final in Madison Square Garden, when the New York Rangers played the Canucks, I could feel 20,000 people collectively holding their breath and then exhaling after 54 years of frustration when the Rangers won. To see Mark Messier's emotion was incredible.
 Unlike the trophies in other sports, which are newly manufactured every year, the Stanley Cup is more than 100 years old. Every member on the winning team gets his name on the cup and gets to keep it for a day -- to take to his community, to bring to hospitals, and to share with family and friends, all of whom get excited when they see this magical trophy. 
 The most visible, difficult thing I've had to do is cancel a season. I don't like work stoppages. I understand the hardship they place on the people who work in the sport, such as the ushers and ticket takers, and how devastating the stoppages are to our fans. I have always wished it had never come to that. 
 In our last lockout, our economics were unsustainable. However, since that season, we've had three years of record revenue and record attendance. The risk of inaction would have been greater. When you have a collective bargaining relationship, sometimes your only choice is a work stoppage. On a personal level, it's a very solitary experience. For all of us who live and breathe the game, there's a void without it.
 I host a call-in radio show each week, and I love the reaction from the fans. Some people find it hard to believe how positive the callers are. The questions I get most often are about officiating. Do I aspire to do the show full time? Absolutely not. But I enjoy it for an hour a week. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT A. SCHNEIDER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); SPORTS FANS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (87%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK METS (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); VANCOUVER CANUCKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



368 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE VOICE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Bad News at Snarky Gulch

BYLINE: By CAROLINE H. DWORIN

 BODY:
SLIGHTLY more than two weeks ago, Radar magazine counted itself among the recent dead in a torrent of publication closings and scale-backs, folding on the same day as 02138, a glossy aimed at Harvard alumni. 
 Since Radar, a monthly, had made its debut in 2003, it had started and stopped several times, with the most recent start-up in early 2007. Well regarded and familiar to many young, professional New Yorkers, the publication had teeth, attitude and occasionally some earnest reporting. Dealing in entertainment, politics, gossip and reviews, it recently billed itself as ''Pop Culture for Smart People,'' and enjoyed a readership of 200,000 to 250,000, according to Radar's editor, Maer Roshan.
 With the closing, Radar's staff of about 35, many in their 20s and 30s, found themselves suddenly out of work, among them Paige Ferrari, a petite 26-year-old blonde who was the magazine's online features editor. A graduate of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism, she previously freelanced for MSNBC, interned at Slate, worked as an editorial assistant for Smithsonian Books and taught middle school in the South Bronx. 
 A week after learning her fate, Ms. Ferrari sat barefoot on a couch in the apartment in Alphabet City that she shares with three roommates, in front of an open laptop and a half-glass of white wine, and talked about her professional past and her possible future. CAROLINE H. DWORIN 
 On that Friday, Oct. 24, around noon, we found out that we no longer had jobs. It wasn't like it was out of the question that Radar would fold; we've had problems in the past. But the folding was a little bit surprising because it was so sudden. 
 We report on media layoffs. We report on the recession. Then you find yourself actually experiencing it. I don't know if it's better or worse to be a part of a phenomenon.
 It's not as if I have four kids and I'm working at a warehouse that's shutting down. When you compare the plight of young media people to people with real problems, it's not that dire. But it is close to home. 
 I've been laid off before. I was laid off from my publishing job, but then I got into Columbia. I sort of reveled in the layoff; there was a light, a destination at the end of the time. This seems a little more grim. 
 When something like this happens, you have to manage your expectations -- where you're going to be able to live, what sacrifices you might have to make to live. I don't know if it's writing airplane safely manuals on the side while you freelance, or moving out of New York and living in a smaller market and doing real good research and reporting there. I think there's going to be a little bit of a realism that has to set in. 
 At least these first couple of days, I've tried not to get too mired down in thinking about worst-case scenarios. But I've wondered, down the road, when is the point I'm going to feel really concerned, take stock and figure out: Should I live here? Should I do this? 
 I hope it won't come to that. But when you see everyone losing their job, you kind of have to have a B-plan. 
 You picture the layoffs as ''Oh, I worked at the plant for 10 years, and then they didn't want me to make this certain wheel part anymore.'' Not people in this sort of cushy industry -- maybe it's a trickle-up thing? It's starting to affect the yuppies in the East Village. That's when you know it's a recession: when your yuppie neighbors are going on unemployment. 
 It was a media salary, so we're not going to Per Se every day. I have a great deal here with my apartment.
 I came home one day and my roommate was trying to call unemployment. That's when I still had a job, so I was very smug. He was trying to call unemployment to get his unemployment money, but he couldn't get through the menu because he had just got a new iPhone. So he was trying to find the keypad on the new iPhone. I was like, ''I don't think the unemployment menu is set up for people with iPhones.''
 And I can't really tell if this is the bottom or the beginning. We had that funny thing where Lockhart Steele, who runs Curbed, said we'll know when the economy's bottomed out because Radar magazine will fold. He said, ''Well, Radar's folded, but at least the economy's going to come back up now.''
 I was talking to a friend of mine who works in the industry. He's very wise. I said, ''What should I do next?'' And he said, ''Get out of journalism.'' He's probably right; he's got a good read on things. But I probably wouldn't do anything different. I really love working at Radar, and I love what I do when I'm able to do it. 
 There's a Radar funeral tonight. Everyone has sort of a dark sense of humor; everyone will be pouring out a glass for Radar magazine, our fallen homey.
 With the staff at Radar, it'll be interesting to see where we land. Everyone I work with -- worked with -- is really talented, with superimpressive resumes. I think people are going to be fine. But it'll be interesting to see how long it takes. Maybe the government will set up some gossip blogs for us to make a living submitting to. Just so we can feel good about ourselves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



369 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: The Caged Bird Speaks

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ROYTE. 
Elizabeth Royte, a frequent contributor to the Book Review, is the author of ''Garbage Land: On the Secret Trail of Trash'' and ''Bottlemania: How Water Went on Sale and Why We Bought It.''

 BODY:
ALEX & ME
 How a Scientist and a Parrot Discovered a Hidden World of Animal Intelligence -- And Formed a Deep Bond in the Process
 By Irene M. Pepperberg
 Illustrated. 232 pp. Collins/HarperCollins Publishers. $23.95
 ''Alex & Me,'' Irene Pepperberg's memoir of her 30-year scientific collaboration with an African gray parrot, was written for the legions of Alex's fans, the (probably) millions whose lives he and she touched with their groundbreaking work on nonhuman communication. Alex -- for anyone who missed the commemorations last year in The Economist, Nature, The New York Times and on the radio and TV -- could label more than a hundred objects and understood the concept of categories, as well as bigger-smaller, same-different and absence. (The Guardian called Alex ''smarter than the average U.S. president.'') To anyone who's dreamed of talking with the animals, Dr. Doolittle style, Alex was a revelation. 
 For a technical analysis of his feats, you'll want to read Pepperberg's book ''The Alex Studies,'' published in 2000. The present book, in contrast, is largely celebratory -- light on science, heavy on cute animal stories and heartwarming in its depiction of what was either a fruitful professional collaboration or a weirdly dependent friendship, or both. Still, it isn't all billing and cooing: a strain of ''I'll show them'' runs through the text. Accusations against the scientific establishment, which at first denied Pepperberg funding, publication, prestigious appointments and professional respect, propel the narrative. 
 Pepperberg's basic biography ought to be rousing (nerdy girl abandons career in chemistry to pursue animal intelligence; is rejected by establishment; achieves international acclaim). But she tells her own story with far less emotion than she does Alex's. There's much that Pepperberg is unwilling to reveal -- about her cold and controlling parents, her failed marriage and her relationships with colleagues. That's the author's prerogative, but it leaves a reader wondering how she ended up in her 50s, alone and jobless, reduced to eating 14 tofu meals a week (to save money, not the earth). Her approach to herself is neither scientific nor humanistic: the woman remains an enigma. 
 Alex, on the other hand, is a delight -- a one-pound, three-dimensional force of nature. Mischievous and cocky, he also gets bored and frustrated. (And who wouldn't, when asked to repeat tasks 60 times to ensure statistical significance?) He shouts out correct answers when his colleagues (other birds) fail to produce them. If Pepperberg inadvertently greets another bird first in the morning, Alex sulks all day and refuses to cooperate. He demands food, toys, showers, a transfer to his gym. 
 This ornery reviewer tried to resist Alex's charms on principle (the principle that says any author who keeps telling us how remarkable her subject is cannot possibly be right). But his achievements got the better of me. During one training session, Alex repeatedly asked for a nut, a request that Pepperberg refused (work comes first). Finally, Alex looked at her and said, slowly, ''Want a nut. Nnn . . . uh . . . tuh.'' 
 ''I was stunned,'' Pepperberg writes. ''It was as if he were saying, 'Hey, stupid, do I have to spell it out for you?' '' Alex had leaped from phonemes to sound out a complete word -- a major leap in cognitive processing. Perching near a harried accountant, Alex asks over and over if she wants a nut, wants corn, wants water. Frustrated by the noes, he asks, ''Well, what do you want?'' Mimicry? Maybe. Still, it made me laugh. 
 After performing major surgery on Alex, a doctor hands him, wrapped in a towel, to an overwrought Pepperberg. Alex ''opened an eye, blinked, and said in a tremulous voice, 'Wanna go back.' '' It's a phrase Alex routinely used to mean ''I'm done with this, take me back to my cage.'' The scene is both wrenching -- Alex had been near death -- and creepy, evoking the talking bundle in ''Eraserhead.'' 
 Pepperberg frames her story with Alex's death: the sudden shock of it, and the emotional abyss into which she fell. Ever the scientist, she wonders why she felt so strongly. The answer she comes up with is both simple -- her friend was dead -- and complex. At long last, and buoyed by the outpouring of support from people around the world, she could express the emotions she'd kept in check for 30 years, the better to convince the scientific establishment that she was a serious researcher generating valid and groundbreaking data (some had called her claims about animal minds ''vacuous''). When Alex died, that weight lifted. 
 BUT in revealing how Alex lived, and the day-to-day workings of her lab, Pepperberg may soon find herself open to fresh criticism. Her book raises an important question: why, if Alex has the cognitive skills of a young child, and even seems to grasp such concepts as love, would anyone confine him to a cage in a lab? Why run him through the drills, or scold him for getting answers ''wrong''? (''You turkey,'' he'd say, mimicking his trainers, or ''Say better!'') During a stint at M.I.T.'s Media Lab, Pepperberg worked on a device, designed for gray parrot owners, that projects terrifying images of predators when their pets' vocalizations ''exceeded the desired level.'' She doesn't comment on the morality of either confining a highly intelligent creatureor scaring it into submission. She deals with the question of animal rights in just one sentence: while acknowledging it would be cruel to adopt a gray and leave it alone all day, ''that doesn't mean grays or other animals have wide-ranging political rights.'' 
 Alex was a celebrity, and this book will surely please his legions of fans. Meanwhile, supporters of Pepperberg, who continues her research with other grays, will remind critics that we'd have no inkling of parrot intelligence without Alex's sacrifice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ZOOLOGY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); ANIMAL COMMUNICATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: Alex & Me (Book)>; Alex & Me (Book)>; Alex & Me (Book)>; Alex & Me (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



370 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; WINTER IN THE SUN PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: This Season, Procrastination May Pay Off

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
FOR travelers wary about the cost of taking a vacation this winter to the Caribbean or other distant points, some economic relief may be in the offing. In addition to a flurry of discounts from hotels and resorts, many companies are rolling back cancellation penalties, slashing booking deposits and promoting money-back guarantees to encourage hesitant clients to put something on the books. 
 Grupo Posadas, the Mexican hotel operator, has extended a 25 percent-off sale at its Aqua and Fiesta Americana resorts through Dec. 21 for bookings made by Dec. 15. In the Bahamas, Nassau Paradise Island is offering a $500 cash-back rebate to guests who book an air and hotel package at participating resorts for seven consecutive nights or longer by Nov. 30 for travel through February. Guests who stay for three to six nights can receive a $250 rebate. And ResortQuest Hawaii properties are offering discounts of up to 20 percent to guests who book by Dec. 1 for travel between Jan. 2 and Dec. 21, 2009. 
 In the Caribbean, hotels on St. Kitts and Nevis are promoting Worry Free vacations by waiving cancellation fees on bookings made by Dec. 14. Book the Fall in Love package and save 25 percent off a four-night stay or 30 percent off a seven-night stay. 
 Meanwhile, some industry giants are changing the way they do business. Liberty Travel, the travel agency chain based in Ramsey, N.J., recently began promising not just to match but also to outdo competitors' prices by $10 per adult and $5 per child if a customer finds a less expensive airfare, travel package, cruise or tour quote -- a pledge the company is calling its Price Beat Guarantee. And the Globus brands, which include Globus, Cosmos, Monograms and Avalon Waterways, have done away with single supplements, typically $550, on 11 new vacations to Europe to give solo travelers an incentive to book those trips. 
 The recent jitters in the economy are even creating a crack in the booking policies of luxury travel brands. 
 Windstar Cruises, which operates a three-ship fleet of luxury yachts, is giving travelers more time to pay its $750 deposit by requiring just half of the payment within three days of booking for 2009 trips made by Dec. 15. The remainder is due Jan. 15. Island Destinations, a high-end tour operator, said several hotels in the resorts it uses, including the Landings in St. Lucia and the Namale Resort and Spa in Fiji, are being more lenient with cancellation penalties by offering travelers more time to cancel before paying in full. And in some cases, hotels are waiving fees altogether. Sanctuary on Camelback Mountain, near Scottsdale, Ariz., which had charged a penalty fee to guests who cancel within 72 hours of a trip, is now allowing guests to reschedule and apply that charge toward a future stay within the year. 
 Customers of Crystal Cruises, the luxury cruise line based in Los Angeles, will find a few policy changes this winter. The company is now allowing guests to cancel just 45 days in advance (down from 75), reducing deposits to 5 percent from 10 percent for all 2009 itineraries (except for its Full World Cruise) and giving travelers more time to put deposits down. Crystal is also promoting its ''price guarantee'' program, which protects guests who have already signed up for a cruise if the company subsequently offers a sale. ''If we lower a price, we lower it for everybody,'' said Mimi Weisband, a spokeswoman for Crystal Cruises.
 All of these moves are a big shift for the travel industry, which had become accustomed to raising prices and holding clients to strict booking terms when times were flush. But as the economic slowdown sinks in, companies are being forced to respond. Seventeen percent of respondents to a recent Maritz Research poll canceled a vacation in the last six months. Another 6 percent shortened the length of their trip. 
 ''The economy has everybody skittish,'' said Ms. Weisband of Crystal Cruises, where bookings are down about 10 percent for 2009 so far. ''People are feeling paralyzed. Hopefully this will help them make their plans.'' 
 Finding an affordable flight is still a challenge, but with the price of oil coming down, some airlines and cruise companies are beginning to roll back fuel surcharges. For example, average fuel surcharges to Buenos Aires and to Santiago, Chile, were down from $370 round trip at the start of October to $220 late last month, according to data compiled by Tom Parsons, chief executive of Bestfares.com, a discount travel site. Fuel surcharges to Rio de Janeiro dropped to $170 round trip from $250 in early October. 
 And last month, Carnival Corporation announced it would drop fuel surcharges for bookings on cruises in 2010 aboard its six major cruise lines: Carnival, Costa, Cunard, Holland America, Princess Cruises and the Yachts of Seabourn. For 2008 and 2009 departures, the company said it would refund fuel surcharges in the form of a shipboard credit if oil prices stay at or below $70 a barrel for 25 consecutive trading days, ending five days before departure. Norwegian and Royal Caribbean have since introduced similar fuel guidelines. 
 The bottom line: With travel prices on a downward track, avoid bargains that lock you in to a set price. Look for deals that offer you flexibility to change or cancel your plans with little or no penalties should you see a better price.
 To be sure you don't miss out on last-minute airfare sales, travelers have a couple of options. Orbitz.com recently introduced an airfare savings tracker called Orbitz Price Assurance, designed to automatically refund customers who book on the site the fare difference if another Orbitz customer books the same airline ticket for less. Yapta.com, another price-tracking service, alerts travelers to price drops even after the ticket has been bought. Travelers can call the airline to claim their travel credit themselves or pay $15 to have Yapta do it. 
 And don't be afraid to ask for a better deal when making a hotel or cruise reservation. The softening travel demand means it's a buyer's market. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY RASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); SALES REBATES (90%); RESORTS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CRUISES (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (86%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); AIR FARES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (69%)

COMPANY: GRUPO POSADAS SAB DE CV (58%); CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (50%)

TICKER: POSADAS (BMV) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); BAHAMAS (92%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); FIJI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



371 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CHILDREN'S BOOKS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Think Before You Eat

BYLINE: By REGINA MARLER. 
Regina Marler is the author of a literary history, ''Bloomsbury Pie.''

 BODY:
I GET SO HUNGRY
 By Bebe Moore Campbell. Illustrated by Amy Bates
 Unpaged. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $16.99. (Ages 6 to 8)
 WHAT THE WORLD EATS
 By Faith D'Aluisio. Photographs by Peter Menzel
 160 pp. Tricycle Press. $22.99. (Ages 11 to 14)
 Floating doughnuts. Heaped trays of hot dogs and potato chips. Fields of mouthwatering sweets. You might get the idea from Bebe Moore Campbell's ''I Get So Hungry'' that its illustrator, Amy Bates, had more fun with the first half of this picture book about weight control than with the second half. One page offers a teasingly half-unwrapped candy bar with a single bite taken from the end -- the chocolate lovers' version of a blonde in a peek-a-boo nightie. 
 Though its warm, appealing illustrations could send anyone with a sweet tooth running for the cookie jar, ''I Get So Hungry'' is otherwise a lovingly conceived and carefully written salvo in the battle against childhood obesity. Its heroine, Nikki, returns to school one fall to find that she's acquired an unwelcome nickname: ''Nikki Thicky.'' Nikki's mother brushes off her concern. ''We come from a long line of big-boned women,'' she says. 
 Taunted by a schoolmate, Nikki only wants to eat more. She sneaks a few chips in class, then discovers that her new teacher, Mrs. Patterson -- depicted as a vivacious obese woman -- has a secret in common with her: ''Mrs. Patterson pretends that she is looking in her purse for something. Then she coughs, and I see her shove a cookie in her mouth. I can hear Mrs. Patterson breathing when she gets up and walks to the blackboard.'' 
 Nearly half of New York City's public elementary school children are overweight or obese. For a variety of reasons, African-American girls like Nikki have a greater tendency to be overweight than girls of other races. ''I Get So Hungry'' touches on some of the causes of this epidemic, especially family eating patterns and emotional eating. Aimed at 6- to 8-year-olds, though, the book takes for granted that young children cannot control their own diets; they don't buy food or prepare meals. What the story offers instead is inspiration for becoming more physically active and pursuing hobbies and talents. ''If you fill your life with interesting things to do,'' Nikki's teachertells her, ''you won't feel so hungry all the time.'' 
 This is a rare picture book that depicts a mother in an unflattering light -- at least until the happy ending. The parent reading the book aloud may especially feel a prod when Nikki cries that her mother won't buy the good food Mrs. Patterson has started eating. The message is clear: you have to help children eat right. They can't do it on their own. 
 Global changes in eating habits and the resulting health repercussions are an underlying theme of ''What the World Eats,'' written by Faith D'Aluisio and photographed by her husband, Peter Menzel. This amazing volume is a young adult version of their book ''Hungry Planet.''Along the lines of Menzel's book ''Material World'' (1995), in which people posed next to all their worldly possessions, here D'Aluisio and Menzel traveled the globe, interviewing families and photographing them with one week's worth of food. 
 From the desert village of Kouakourou in Mali, where Soumana Natomo's two wives trade off breakfast duties on alternating days, to the frozen town of Ittoqqortoormiit in Greenland, where the only fresh food is swimming under nearby ice, the images and essays in ''What the World Eats'' are completely captivating. Menzel's crisp color photographs include as much peripheral detail as possible: Nepali servants hovering in the background of a Kuwaiti kitchen and brightly colored plastic war toys for sale beside a Sarajevo fruit stand. 
 D'Aluisio's essays take us into each home. They vary in tone, perhaps depending on the level of trust between her and her subjects, and usually reflect the political, geographic and economic factors that influence what people eat. Between the family portraits and the author's frequent hints, it is easy to find examples of dietary changes in the developing world. Many of the families profiled understand that convenience foods aren't as healthy as traditional foods, but in places like China and Eastern Europe, where food was so recently scarce, the calorie-dense, processed items now available in supermarkets and American fast-food chains are often irresistible. 
 Charts on topics like ''Number of McDonald's Restaurants'' in a given country or ''Overweight Population/Obese Population'' are useful, but not as convincing as the portrait of the four members of the Casales family of Mexico posed in front of the six gallons of Coke they drink weekly. 
 Any reader would be staggered by the amount of meat consumed by the Browns of Australia, a family in suburban Brisbane, but it's equally sobering to witness the intense labor required for Ermelinda Ayme Sichigalo and Orlando Ayme to grow their own food on a central Andean hillside in Ecuador or the meager rations with which D'jimia Ishakh Souleymane, a widow, sustains her five children in the Breidjing Refugee Camp in Chad, near the Darfur region of Sudan. 
 Outside the industrialized world, the way food is acquired, prepared and eaten is often as interesting as the food itself. D'Aluisio and Menzel follow the Madsens, an Inuit family of Greenland (favorite foods: polar bear and narwhal skin), on a seal hunt, for example, while Doug Brown, 54, reminisces about porcupine-hunting in the Australian outback before the family moved into town: ''A porcupine is a lot of work,'' Brown says. ''Dig after it, run after it, clean it, hang it, cook it for hours. And just when you're ready to eat it, your friends show up, all wanting a leg each.'' 
 American kids may be surprised that children in other countries are often expected to work to help feed their families, out of necessity, but also because of rigid gender roles. In Mali, for example, girls and women do the bulk of the work -- not just domestic labor, but the grain-selling that supports the family. 
 Of course, readers may simply be enraptured by the ingenuity of hungry people everywhere, who can make meals of starfish, live scorpions, chicken feet and deep-friend silkworm pupae. Highlights include the Filipino street food dugo, described as ''curdled and congealed pig blood, cut into chunks, skewered and then grilled.'' 
 A colorful primer on the global marketplace and cultural change, ''What the World Eats'' sparks an intellectual appetite that no amount of narwhal skin can fill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Casales family of Mexico, top, and the Browns of Australia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); OBESITY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DIETING (77%); BAKED GOODS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

TITLE: I Get So Hungry (Book)>; What the World Eats (Book)>; I Get So Hungry (Book)>; What the World Eats (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



372 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT WHITE PLAINS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Darkens, County Sees Budget Pain

BYLINE: By NICOLE NEROULIAS

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
 BRACING for huge financial potholes on Wall Street and Main Street, Westchester lawmakers have asked their staffs to explore creative ways to trim next year's budget, ranging from adjusting office thermostats to selling old laptops on eBay.
 ''Nothing is too small,'' said Susan Tolchin, the chief adviser to County Executive Andrew J. Spano, who will send his budget proposal to the Board of Legislators on Friday. ''We're looking at every single thing that we can do to save tax dollars.''
 Some savings come at a high price: a $5.9 million addition to the county's fire training center and $10 million in park repairs have been pushed back in Mr. Spano's 2009 capital budget proposal, which was recently submitted to the legislators for approval. The items that remain in the $93.8 million capital plan, which reflects a 19 percent reduction from last year, either enhance public health or safety, increase affordable housing or open space or would generate revenue, Ms. Tolchin said. 
 A more complex approach is required to fashion the operating budget, however. Westchester residents, who already face the nation's highest median property taxes, cannot afford tax increases, yet many would balk at major cuts to education, social services and public safety, county and local officials agree.
 Part of the strategy involves continuing to work with municipal governments and school districts to share services, like the county's mobile shredder, Ms. Tolchin said, while pursuing outside revenue, like the $440,000 the county raised by auctioning off surplus cars and office equipment this year.
 This year's overall budget is $1.77 billion, and Mr. Spano's office has declined comment on his 2009 plan other than to say that it avoids unnecessary increases. Most of Westchester's revenue comes from property and sales taxes and federal and state aid, said Anne N. Reasoner, the county budget director. Tax revenue has held steady -- the county expects to meet its projection of $368 million this year -- but the rest, along with smaller sums from investment income and mortgage recording fees, has begun to plummet, she said.
 In response to a $6.6 million reduction in state aid and about $10 million less in mortgage fees this year, departments have cut $13 million from the current budget since June, partly through hiring freezes. About 70 percent of the county budget consists of mandated expenses, so cuts must come from the other 30 percent.
 Roughly 18 percent of an average Westchester resident's property tax bill goes to the county; the lion's share goes to the schools. County Legislator Michael B. Kaplowitz said he expected Mr. Spano's budget proposal to fall below this year's 3.9 percent tax levy increase, given that many residents have been directly affected by Manhattan's job losses, disappearing bonuses and stock market meltdown.
 ''Wall Street sneezes, and we get the cold up here,'' he said. ''The key is, can we do things that are cost effective, that are efficient, that save the towns and cities from duplicating services?''
 Local governments and school districts have already begun tightening their belts. In Yonkers, where 41 percent of city and school financing comes from the state, Mayor Philip A. Amicone has asked departments for plans to cut spending by up to 10 percent for the fiscal year that begins in July, said David Simpson, a spokesman for the city.
 In Greenburgh, Supervisor Paul J. Feiner said department heads had been asked to submit two proposed budgets for 2009: one with no spending increase, the other with a 5 percent decrease. The town has already cut its DARE youth drug-prevention program, raised recreation and planning fees and scaled back neighborhood garbage service, and it is soliciting outside funds for Meals on Wheels and children's camps.
 If the economy worsens, there is not much left to cut in some places, however, officials say. The Mount Vernon school district, which could not get its budget passed this year and is operating on a contingency plan, eliminated high school sports and has relied on donations to reinstate each team at the last minute.
 ''We're pretty much bare bones as it is right now,'' said Desiree Grand, a district spokeswoman.
 The county can help relieve some town and school shortfalls by consolidating services, but faced with its own reductions, it will not be able to provide contingency funds for any large gaps, Ms. Tolchin said. And, she said, ''we fully expect that we're going to be cut even further.''
 The county legislators have until the end of the year to amend and pass Mr. Spano's budget proposal. But the state's fiscal year does not end until April, so county lawmakers can only guess how much state aid the financial crisis will cost them; Gov. David A. Paterson could call on lawmakers this month to make more cuts.
 Westchester has joined other counties in asking state lawmakers to turn local aid into block grants so they can spend the money as they see fit next year, rather than having it earmarked for specific purposes.
 The Westchester County Association, a business advocacy group, has proposed a plan for state and county lawmakers to control spending without raising taxes through a 5 percent across-the-board cut in government expenses. William M. Mooney Jr., the association's president, said he had been assured that Mr. Spano would work with business leaders to limit tax increases by pooling resources with the towns and schools and restructuring some health and pension benefits.
 ''We all know it's going to be bleak,'' Mr. Mooney said. ''The question is, how bleak is it going to be?''
 In the meantime, Westchester officials will keep looking for savings. In some cases, cost-cutting measures go hand in hand with efforts to make county operations more eco-friendly, like the $1 million it anticipates saving annually by replacing the lighting in county buildings with high-efficiency bulbs and using automatic light sensors, Ms. Tolchin said.
 Furnaces will be turned on later in the day and shut off earlier in the evening, county buildings will be kept two degrees cooler, and the hot water temperature will be lowered, she said.
 ''It's going to be a sweater winter for county employees,'' Ms. Tolchin said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ECO-FRIENDLY: Installing high-efficiency lighting last month at a county office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 IDEA MEN: Leon Smith of Hartsdale, left, fills out a questionnaire about cost savings for Greenburgh Supervisor Paul J. Feiner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SALES TAX (77%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



373 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Electricity Project Forges Ahead Despite Afghan Terrain and Taliban

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

 BODY:
KAJAKI DAM, Afghanistan -- Five shipping containers marked with the Afghan flag, some of them still wrapped in plastic, now sit in the construction camp at Kajaki Dam, Afghanistan's biggest hydroelectric project.
They hold the United States government's largest single gift to Afghanistan of the past seven years: massive pieces of a new 200-ton hydroelectric turbine that, when installed, will double the electricity supply to the towns and districts of southern Afghanistan.
The $180 million project, which includes distribution lines and substations, is intended to reach 1.8 million people and provide jobs and economic renewal to the most troubled and violent part of the country.
The governor of Helmand Province, Gulab Mangal, paid a brief visit by helicopter to the dam in his province in October to emphasize its importance. Speaking to reporters over the roar of the water, he said that even if the immediate benefits were not apparent, future generations would appreciate the assistance coming into Afghanistan. ''The children of Afghanistan will not forget the work done for this power station,'' he said. 
The Chinese-made turbine remains in its packing cases, and it will not be installed and working for perhaps a year. But its arrival in this isolated camp, deep inside Taliban territory, was one of the great feats of NATO forces in southern Afghanistan this year.
It has been a rare instance of a fulfilled promise in the effort to build up Afghanistan's infrastructure. But even with the step forward, the improvements to the dam, in an inaccessible area of northern Helmand Province, are still being held hostage by the Taliban's growing ability to mount offensives in recent years. The overall power project has been repeatedly delayed because of the difficulty of security and logistics. And the rest of the original $500 million proposal to augment the capacity of the dam itself has not been approved, cast in doubt by the Taliban's gains.
''In the case of the Kajaki Dam or others, the security situation impedes the delivery of the service,'' the American ambassador to Afghanistan, William B. Wood, told reporters in Washington in June. ''The reason that there isn't more light at night and more warmth in winter for south Afghanistan is because the Taliban has not let us do everything, work as effectively as we'd like to on the Kajaki Dam.''
This has been the deadliest year for NATO forces and Afghan forces in Afghanistan since the invasion in late 2001, as Taliban insurgents have attacked persistently, in particular with ambushes and roadside bombs. The offensive has severely curtailed efforts by NATO and the government to expand their control from towns into the countryside.
As the summer fighting dragged on, it became clear that 19,000 foreign troops deployed in the southern provinces, alongside thousands more Afghan soldiers and police officers, were in a stalemate with the insurgents, as one senior NATO commander put it. It looked as if Usaid's project to develop the Kajaki Dam would be put on hold for yet another year.
Then in late August, NATO exercised some muscle. More than 4,000 British, American, Canadian, Danish, Australian and Afghan troops combined forces to cut and secure a road through 100 miles of hostile territory to move the equipment and turbine parts that were too heavy to be airlifted up to Kajaki.
The cargo convoy, which included 100 vehicles and carried the turbine in seven containers weighing up to 30 tons each, took five days to struggle through the mountains, amid a strict news blackout. Heavy fighting took place in villages south of the dam, including aerial bombardment, but the convoy took a different route and arrived in early September without damage.
The huge operation was criticized in the British news media, which questioned the exposure of British soldiers to such high risk to save an American government assistance project.
Yet for the Afghans employed here, and the frustrated residents of cities like Kandahar, who have lived with barely a few hours of electricity a day for the past seven years, NATO was belatedly meeting its commitment to bring development to southern Afghanistan.
''It is slow,'' said Sayed Rasoul, 52, an employee at the Kajaki power plant for 28 years and now its chief engineer. ''We have a difficulty with transport.''
Mr. Rasoul is now in charge of the next stage, with an American engineer, George H. Wilder, 62, who works for the American contractors in charge of the project, the Louis Berger Group. They work and live in a small construction camp next to the dam, protected by a battalion of British and Afghan soldiers who keep the Taliban, who hold the surrounding villages, at bay. Everything the workers and soldiers need comes by helicopters that fly high over the brown, barren mountains and then spiral down over the green-blue reservoir into the camp to avoid enemy fire.
Yet Mr. Wilder, who said he was pulled out of retirement to do the job at Kajaki, vowed he would stay until the new turbine was up and running. If all goes well, that should be by next August, he said.
''Of course, security will be humongous,'' he said. ''But we will drive on with it one way or another.''
The British troops have pushed the Taliban back far enough that the rocket attacks that forced the foreign contractors to pull out in 2006 are now rare, Mr. Wilder said.
''We have good nights and bad nights,'' he said, saying the worst were when British troops on night patrol fired mortars from the camp to cover their movements as they pulled back from a fight. The camp itself rarely comes under fire anymore, he said. ''There is no danger here,'' he added.
Extraordinarily, Afghan workers have kept the power station running throughout the past 30 years of war and upheaval, and even now have negotiated with the Taliban so they can travel to work from their villages.
Mr. Rasoul, dressed in faded blue dungarees and a hard hat, clipboard in hand, leads a team of 43 workers, most of whom are white-bearded older men who have been working at the dam since it was built in 1975.
The Taliban hold sway in the countryside around the dam and even charge people for electricity, so they can be persuaded to let the workers keep the power plant running, the workers said.
''We do not have a problem with anyone,'' Mr. Rasoul said. ''We tell them we are working and producing electricity for everyone in the villages and towns.''
The work in the months ahead involves repairing one of the existing American Westinghouse turbines and installing the new Chinese one. But workers also need to survey and lay new transmission lines through miles of Taliban-controlled country to Kandahar.
Governor Mangal said he was confident that could be done, through a mixture of force and persuasion.
''Firstly, we will extend the security with the support of the brave soldiers of our national forces,'' he said. ''But secondly, we will try to win the hearts and minds of the people and tell them how important this power station is. I am sure they will support us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Afghan police officer stood guard in April above the Kajaki Dam, where a new turbine will double the electricity supply. The Taliban hold surrounding villages. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON STRAZIUSO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 After a difficult trek to Kajaki, a vehicle carrying parts of a 200-ton hydroelectric turbine waited in September for unloading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SGT. ANTHONY BOOCOCK/BRITISH MINISTRY OF DEFENSE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: Progress at the Kajaki Dam has been a significant feat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (65%); APPROVALS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



374 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SPORTS NEWARK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: With Names That Could Kill, Women Rev Up Roller Derby

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 WOMEN'S roller derby is undoubtedly having a moment in New Jersey; at least seven leagues, with more than a dozen teams, have sprouted statewide since 2005. (Some leagues have only a single team.) But Mickey Taylor, a construction worker from New Milford who answers to Bone Saw when she skates with the Northern Nightmares, isn't complacent about the long-term prospects for her favorite pastime. 
 Right now, ''it's bubbling,'' said Ms. Taylor, 29, who wore fishnets under sapphire-blue shorts and a leather dog collar around her neck at the Branch Brook Park Roller Skating Center here. On a recent Friday night, her 12-member Nightmares had a bout against the Hub City Hellrazors, both part of the Newark-based Garden State Rollergirls League, formed in 2006. ''The problem is, people love the idea of it, but nobody's coming out to see it,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''We need some big sponsors.'' 
 According to many team captains, a national resurgence in the sport started after A&E broadcast the 2006 series ''Rollergirls,'' based on the Texas Lonestars. Ms. Taylor is not alone, however, in worrying that the sport that once spawned a national craze is headed for the same fate it met in the mid-1970s, when it skidded from the popular consciousness as unceremoniously as the Bee Gees. 
 ''We have crowd participation and people love us,'' said Chris Manzella, a k a Dee Licious, a 30-year-old advertising executive from Morristown. ''We get 200-plus coming out to bouts.'' She is also the owner of the Morristown Madams League, which formed in 2006 and skates at the Morristown Roller Hockey Rink. Still, ''with a recession at our door, are people going to spend money to come out and see us?''
 ''I don't know,'' Ms. Manzella said. 
 For now, although ''leagues form, dissolve and merge on the regular,'' said Tracy Williams, managing editor of the Web site Derby News Network, based in Baltimore, thousands of 18- to 60-year-old New Jersey women are as serious about roller derby as skate names like Predator in Chief, Betty Brawl and Joy Collision may suggest. 
 They head out to practice several nights a week, especially from August to November when most bouts take place, leaving behind their families and jobs to don helmets and attitudes perhaps too serious for a sport that sometimes includes spanking in the penalty box. Bouts are infrequent, sometimes taking place only once every six weeks, and are either interleague or against teams within a radius of a five-hour drive. Because the new incarnation of roller derby is still strictly amateur, each team counts on its own coordinator to arrange bouts, which are open to the public and generally cost $10 to $15. 
 A typical bout starts with loud rock music, often provided rinkside by a house band. Once a referee blows the opening whistle, five heavily padded women from each team take to the rink to try to stop the opposing team's jammer, or point scorer, from advancing through a crowd of blockers during two 30-minute periods. Heckling by the crowd is typical; rude hand gestures are commonplace. 
 ''It's like football on skates,'' said Melissa Morera, 33, a k a Mos Deathly, president and founder of the Deptford-based South Jersey Derby Girls, which formed in 2007. ''You have to have a lot of endurance. 
 ''You also have to be pretty aggressive, although we have some women who aren't aggressive normally outside of derby,'' said Ms. Morera, of Mullica Hill, a co-owner of an insurance marketing company. ''They're just fast and they want to stay in shape.'' 
 In New Jersey, two governing bodies guide the play. While most leagues follow the Women's Flat Track Derby Association rules, at least two leagues subscribe to the practices put forth by the Old School Derby Association, based in Levittown, Pa., and known for allowing tougher, more punishing hits. 
 Among them are the Trenton-based Penn-Jersey She Devils, which counts a derby celebrity on the coaching staff. Judy Sowinski, 68, of Ocean City, a k a the Polish Ace, started skating professionally in 1958 and retired in the mid-1980s. 
 ''I was very fortunate,'' Ms. Sowinski said. ''I got paid. But there's no money in it now, even though some of the girls are very talented.'' Her outlook on the future of roller derby is too pragmatic, probably, to placate devoted players. 
 ''You don't know at this point,'' Ms. Sowinski said. ''It could become a huge hit again or it could go right down the tubes like it did before.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON WHEELS: Members of the Northern Nightmares during a roller derby bout at Branch Brook Park Roller Skating Center with the Hub City Hellrazors. (PHOTOGRAPH: ARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (92%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



375 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD: NOV. 9 - NOV. 15: Art

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Art
 Nicolai Ouroussoff
 The timing of ''BARKLEY L. HENDRICKS: BIRTH OF THE COOL'' couldn't be better. Anxiety over New York's growing economic malaise is bringing back memories of the city in 1970s. Trained as a classical painter at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts and at Yale University, Hendricks rose to prominence in the 1960s and '70s, a time when the urban cultural scene was flourishing, and Wall Street had yet to rule the world. His cool, unpretentious portraits of lonesome figures lounging in urban settings embody an era when art, sex and the grit of urban street life intertwined. Through March 15, Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. 
 Tired of Chagall? Who isn't? Yet ''CHAGALL AND THE ARTISTS OF THE RUSSIAN JEWISH THEATER, 1919-1949'' places him in an intriguing context: the vibrant mix of avant-garde artists, playwrights, actors and producers that flourished in the Jewish theater in the period immediately following the Russian Revolution. The work is astonishing for its range of influences, from Italian Futurism and Russian Constructivism to Jewish folklore. Its pulsating creative energy makes its sudden end, at the hands of Stalin's viciously anti-Semitic regime, only more poignant. Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Costume design for Chagall's ''Agents: A Joke in One Act.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/ADAGP, PARIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (79%); CITY LIFE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); FOLKLORE (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



376 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; PULSE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Frown Fighters

BYLINE: By ELLEN TIEN

 BODY:
As the economy crumbles, the Lipstick Index -- that frivolous financial barometer that says cosmetics sales rise in direct relation to free-falling finances -- has jumped. Sales in the last few months are up 40 percent. Here are 41 of fall's most popular pick-me-ups, from $1.99 to over $50. What do women want when they aren't allowed to want too much? Traditional lipsticks in more-sheer neutral shades; the bright reds of days gone by have been replaced by pinky browns and rosy taupes.
 Top row, from left to right: 
 1. Benefit Full-Finish lipstick in Ladies' Choice, $18 at benefitcosmetics.com.
 2. Sisley Hydrating long-lasting lipstick No. L17, $55 at Neiman Marcus stores. 
 3. Vincent Longo Lipstain SPF lipstick in Americana, $23 at vincentlongo.com.
 4. Pur Minerals lipstick in Raspberry Quartz, $15 at Ulta stores. 
 5. Shiseido Perfecting lipstick in P13, $22.50 at sephora.com. 
 6. Mark Dew Drenched Moisturlicious lip color in Pretty Posey, $6 at meetmark.com. 
 7. Jane Iredale PureMoist LipColour in Melisa, $19 at Vert in Los Angeles, (310) 581-6126.
 8. Josie Maran lipstick in Rumi Joon, $20 at barneys.com.
 9. MAC lipstick in Viva Glam VI, $14 at maccosmetics.com. 
 10. Clinique Long Last Soft Shine lipstick in Bamboo Pink, $14 at clinique .com. 
 11. Avon Beyond Color Plumping lip color in Divine Wine, $8 at avon .com. 
 12. Dior Addict High Shine lipstick in Casual Beige, $25 at Bloomingdale's stores.
 13. Mally Beauty lipstick in Zooey Doll, $15 at henribendel.com. 
 14. Origins Smileage Plus Organic Liptint in Vintage, $11 at origins.com.
 15. Nars lipstick in Dolce Vita, $24 at narscosmetics.com. 
 16. Sally Hansen Natural Beauty in Plum Shimmer, $9.99 at Duane Reade stores. 
 17. Shu Uemura Rouge Unlimited Creme Matte lipstick in Red 165M, $23 at shuuemura-usa.com. 
 18. DuWop Prime Venom nude lip plumping balm and primer, $20 at Sephora. 
 19. Michael Marcus lipstick in Jenifer, $24 at michaelmarcus.com. 
 20. N.Y.C. New York Color Ultra Last LipWear in Brandy Sparkle, $1.99 at Wal-Mart stores. 
 21. Sue Devitt lipstick in Zimbabwe, $20 at Barneys New York. 
 Bottom row, from left to right:
 22. Bobbi Brown lip color in Brown, $22 at bobbibrowncosmetics.com. 
 23. By Terry Rouge Delectation lipstick in Icy Praline, $41 at Barneys New York stores.
 24. Jouer Lip Color in Phoebe, $22 at Henri Bendel in New York, (800) 423-6335. 
 25. Rimmel Lasting Finish lipstick in Coffee Shimmer, $4.95 at CVS stores. 
 26. Ramy lipstick in Ramy Red, $17 at ramybeautytherapy.com. 
 27. Estee Lauder Signature Hudra Lustre lip at bobbibrowncosmetics.com. 
 28. Chanel Rouge Hydrabase in Enigma $27 at chanel.com.
 29. Chanel Rouge Allure in Naive, $30 at chanel.com.
 30. Calvin Klein Delicious Luxury Creme lipstick in Oasis, $18 at sephora.com.
 31. Trish McEvoy sheer lipstick in Innocent Sheer, $22 at Saks Fifth Avenue stores.
 32. YSL Beaute Rouge Volupte lipstick in Sweet Honey, $29 at Henri Bendel in New York, (800) 423-6335.
 33. Smashbox Photo Finish lipstick in Delightful, $22 at Sephora stores.
 34. Rilastil Long Lasting Color Fix in Tender Rose, $28 at C. O. Bigelow in New York, (212) 533-2700.
 35. Laura Mercier lip color in Pink Champagne, $22 at lauramercier.com.
 36. Paul & Joe Lipstick N in No. 17, $20 at thebeautycloset.com.
 37. TheBalm Read My Lips lipstick in Letter to the Editor, $16 at C. O. Bigelow in New York (212) 533-2700.
 38. Lipstick Queen by Poppy King sheer lip color in Medieval, $20 at Barneys New York stores.
 39. Kat Von D Painted Love lipstick in Lolita, $18 at sephora.com.
 40. Korres Mango Butter SPF 10 in Nude 33, $18 at sephora.com.
 41. BeingTRUE translucent lip color in Protagonist, $22 at truelynatural.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Benefit Full-Finish lipstick in Ladies' Choice, $18 at benefitcosmetics.com. 2. Sisley Hydrating long-lasting lipstick No. L17, $55 at Neiman Marcus stores. 3. Vincent Longo Lipstain SPF lipstick in Americana, $23 at vincentlongo.com. 4. Pur Minerals lipstick in Raspberry Quartz, $15 at Ulta stores. 5. Shiseido Perfecting lipstick in P13, $22.50 at sephora.com. 6. Mark Dew Drenched Moisturlicious lip color in Pretty Posey, $6 at meetmark.com. 7. Jane Iredale PureMoist LipColour in Melisa, $19 at Vert in Los Angeles, (310) 581-6126. 8. Josie Maran lipstick in Rumi Joon, $20 at barneys.com. 9. MAC lipstick in Viva Glam VI, $14 at maccosmetics.com. 10. Clinique Long Last Soft Shine lipstick in Bamboo Pink, $14 at clinique .com. 11. Avon Beyond Color Plumping lip color in Divine Wine, $8 at avon .com. 12. Dior Addict High Shine lipstick in Casual Beige, $25 at Bloomingdale's stores. 13. Mally Beauty lipstick in Zooey Doll, $15 at henribendel.com. 14. Origins Smileage Plus Organic Liptint in Vintage, $11 at origins.com. 15. Nars lipstick in Dolce Vita, $24 at narscosmetics.com. 16. Sally Hansen Natural Beauty in Plum Shimmer, $9.99 at Duane Reade stores. 17. Shu Uemura Rouge Unlimited Creme Matte lipstick in Red 165M, $23 at shuuemura-usa.com. 18. DuWop Prime Venom nude lip plumping balm and primer, $20 at Sephora. 19. Michael Marcus lipstick in Jenifer, $24 at michaelmarcus.com. 20. N.Y.C. New York Color Ultra Last LipWear in Brandy Sparkle, $1.99 at Wal-Mart stores. 21. Sue Devitt lipstick in Zimbabwe, $20 at Barneys New York. 22. Bobbi Brown lip color in Brown, $22 at bobbibrowncosmetics.com. 23. By Terry Rouge Delectation lipstick in Icy Praline, $41 at Barneys New York stores. 24. Jouer Lip Color in Phoebe, $22 at Henri Bendel in New York, (800) 423-6335. 25. Rimmel Lasting Finish lipstick in Coffee Shimmer, $4.95 at CVS stores. 26. Ramy lipstick in Ramy Red, $17 at ramybeautytherapy.com. 27. Estee Lauder Signature Hudra Lustre lipstick in Radiant Wine, $19.50 at esteelauder.com. 28. Chanel Rouge Hydrabase in Enigma $27 at chanel.com. 29. Chanel Rouge Allure in Naive, $30 at chanel.com. 30. Calvin Klein Delicious Luxury Creme lipstick in Oasis, $18 at sephora.com. 31. Trish McEvoy sheer lipstick in Innocent Sheer, $22 at Saks Fifth Avenue stores. 32. YSL Beaute Rouge Volupte lipstick in Sweet Honey, $29 at Henri Bendel in New York, (800) 423-6335. 33. Smashbox Photo Finish lipstick in Delightful, $22 at Sephora stores. 34. Rilastil Long Lasting Color Fix in Tender Rose, $28 at C. O. Bigelow in New York, (212) 533-2700. 35. Laura Mercier lip color in Pink Champagne, $22 at lauramercier.com. 36. Paul & Joe Lipstick N in No. 17, $20 at thebeautycloset.com. 37. TheBalm Read My Lips lipstick in Letter to the Editor, $16 at C. O. Bigelow in New York (212) 533-2700. 38. Lipstick Queen by Poppy King sheer lip color in Medieval, $20 at Barneys New York stores. 39. Kat Von D Painted Love lipstick in Lolita, $18 at sephora.com. 40. Korres Mango Butter SPF 10 in Nude 33, $18 at sephora.com. 41. BeingTRUE translucent lip color in Protagonist, $22 at truelynatural.com. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIYOSHI TOGASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%)

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS STORES (70%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (58%); MONSTER BEVERAGE CORP (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (58%); MNST (NASDAQ) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); ZIMBABWE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



377 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2425 words

HEADLINE: Her New York

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LOPATE. 
Phillip Lopate's books include ''Waterfront: A Walk Around Manhattan.''

 BODY:
ADA LOUISE HUXTABLE is, hands down, the dean of American architectural criticism. In her many books and columns for The New York Times, The New York Review of Books and The Wall Street Journal (where she continues to serve as architecture critic), Ms. Huxtable has brought a sharp, skeptical, receptive eye and a nuanced writing style to the task. 
 Her latest book, ''On Architecture: Collected Reflections on a Century of Change,'' being published this month by Walker & Company, is a hefty collection of keepers from the past five decades of criticism. It tells the story of revolutionary upheavals in taste, from the triumph of an austere modernism to an often frivolous postmodernism to the menu of choices that exist today. 
 Ten days ago, in her sunny penthouse apartment on the Upper East Side, Ms. Huxtable talked about the changing face of the city, the state of its architecture, why Times Square dazzles and why an economic downturn may not be the worst thing to happen to New York. 
 Phillip Lopate: How did you get started as an architecture critic?
 Ada Louise Huxtable: I was a graduate student in architectural history at the N.Y.U. Institute of Fine Arts, and working at the Museum of Modern Art part time. I decided after two years that I didn't want to keep working at MoMA forever. I had been studying Italian modern architecture at school. So I applied for a Fulbright to go to Italy. When I came back home, I started writing a few pieces for ARTnews on New York architecture. 
 Lopate: How old were you at that point?
 Huxtable: I was in my 30s. I was a late bloomer. Aline Saarinen had been The New York Times's chief art critic, but when she married Eero Saarinen, she thought she should not write about architecture anymore. The Times's editors were upset; they said they needed to get someone else, and so she recommended me. I went in all dressed up with my clippings, and I remember saying: ''All you've been doing is printing the developers' P.R. releases in your real estate section. You have nobody covering this very important field.'' So they created the post for me of architecture critic.
 Lopate: You grew up in New York.
 Huxtable: Yes, I'm a native New Yorker. I grew up mostly at 89th Street and Central Park West, in one of those Beaux-Arts buildings. I went to Hunter College -- all my schools were in New York. 
 Lopate: How do you think it has changed since your childhood? Is it the same city?
 Huxtable: The same, but different. That was a quieter, safer, more secure time. The city was more a bunch of small-town neighborhoods. There wasn't the same greed, ambition, drive, short attention span. 
 Lopate: I think of the '50s and '60s as a period of great corporate architecture. 
 Huxtable: Yes, that was when the great corporate headquarters were built in New York and Connecticut, which we're now trying to save.
 Lopate: It's ironic that for so long architectural critics, including yourself, lambasted New York for being timid, being caught in an Art Deco time warp, not having the guts to hire the international star architects who were making waves elsewhere. 
 Huxtable: And now the developers have learned that they can make more money by hiring a name architect. It's the law of unintended consequences. They build these hugely expensive oversized condos and the star architect is supposed to make it palatable. The architects are delighted to be used by the developers because they want to build, but it's the same money game. Still, I think it's good, on the whole. 
 Lopate: Well, now we have Gehry's IAC Building on the Hudson River. 
 Huxtable: I love it. I love it.
 Lopate: I like it, too. We have the LVMH Building by Portzamparc on Madison Avenue, a new Nouvel, a Norman Foster and so on, but I wonder if it really makes such a difference to the life of the city. You suddenly have all this undulating forms, but they still have to hew to the street wall. 
 Huxtable: I like the size and elegant subtlety of the Portzamparc. I am not happy with a lot of what is going on, and I am not happy with the way the critics are assessing it.
 Lopate: How so?
 Huxtable: My view of architecture has not changed. It's the current scene that has changed. Architecture is a very real and important art; it affects us all so directly. You must judge it in terms of problem-solving in this uneasy, difficult combination of structure and art. My feeling is that criticism is not looking at this -- it is treating architecture as eye candy. When you combine new technologies with loosening all the dogmatic rules of modernism, you have opened the world wide to greatness and horror. And that's what we're producing now. It's a terribly mixed bag.
 Lopate: What do you mean by ''eye candy''?
 Huxtable: The ''wow'' buildings. Don't blame it all on Frank Gehry. Gehry is legit; what he did at Bilbao is superb. He showed us how to marry all the arts in our time. But the lesson taken away from it was: We need something that looks ''iconic,'' that's going to put our city on the map. 
 Lopate: A building that will knock your socks off. And probably not a rectangle. 
 Huxtable: Yes, computers can produce these endlessly repeating, beautiful curving, sculptural forms. Now we're finally reaching the stage where we begin to recognize, ''Aha! Right off the computer!'' and we don't accept it as readily. For a while the novelty was very great. It doesn't necessarily solve the problem of functioning well for people who use it. On the other hand, if it doesn't take us to another place, it's nostalgia, and there's an awful lot of nostalgia operating out there today. 
 Lopate: You've been both a preservationist and a critic of that movement.
 Huxtable: I believe in reality, in the real world, and I think the real world is constantly evolving. I think it needs vigilance, because you can do terrible things with architecture. But without changing, growing, developing, what kind of a city would we be? 
 Lopate: For instance, in the South Street Seaport they tried to preserve all those lovely old structures, but they cleaned them up a bit too much, whereas the little brick buildings just to the north kept a funkier character.
 Huxtable: They're real. I remember too much, and I know what a fiasco that South Street Seaport plan turned out. I remember when they actually tore down the most important part of the seaport, Peck Slip, which had the oldest and most wonderful buildings. And those were demolished to make way for some Con Edison industrial addition. 
 Then they decided the heart of the seaport was Schermerhorn Row. Then they brought in the Rouse corporation to tie the place together with a shopping center. And Rouse said you have to have so many contiguous feet of shopping or it doesn't work. So that meant that things had to be moved, torn down, adjusted, and look what we ended up with. I am exceptionally grateful for every inch that got saved. My basic preservation philosophy is: Change it but don't destroy it. 
 Lopate: Jane Jacobs always advocated a respect for the piecemeal. So can't we plan for the piecemeal? 
 Huxtable: It's very tough. You know one example of planning, maybe not for the piecemeal but for context and character, is Times Square. The first plan was for four huge towers by Philip Johnson; thank God they never happened. But even in their later form, the idea was to move the lawyers and the finance firms in there. 
 Of course everyone who loved New York and Times Square, we didn't like quite so much porn, but we wanted to keep the lights, the action. Zoning mandated those signs on the buildings. Fortuitously, the zoning that mandated signs coincided with enormous advances in the technology of light. So now you have a show down there that is fabulous and thrilling.
 Lopate: New York used to be able to build these beautiful cities-within-a city, like Rockefeller Center. Why do you think it's so hard to do that now? 
 Huxtable: If you look at Rockefeller Center in detail, it's a very elegant plan: higher and lower levels that lead you from one to the other, streets cut through to keep the human scale. You always feel you're going around a corner, not around a wind-swept plaza, into some other area that has an inviting activity. 
 First of all, Rockefeller Center was privately planned. It was planned for profit; it was a hard-nosed thing, and of course during the Depression it had to be rejiggered completely because it lost its anchor tenant, the Metropolitan Opera. But while Rockefeller insisted on a certain return of profit, he did hire the best architects and let them alone, and they combined Beaux-Arts and modernist principles into a really complex, humanistic urban plan. 
 We don't have that kind of development now. Everything in this city is totally developer driven. You do not get Rockefeller Center-type development unless you have some kind of leadership that will commit to it; and these developers are so powerful and so wealthy and so sure of what they want that you're starting from a different premise. We've had, I think, a very good mayor, who has done good things for the city, but he doesn't know the difference. Bloomberg's a businessman: he thinks development is planning. 
 Lopate: You say in your book, ''Here we practice the art of the deal, not the art of the city.''
 Huxtable: Exactly. It's your urban development corporations, state and city, that are in charge of these things, not the planners. There's nobody in there that has any of this city-making programmed in their heads; they have dollars and cents and time frames. It's pure business.
 Lopate: Not to get us too depressed, but can we talk about ground zero?
 Huxtable: The first piece I wrote predicted what was going to happen. People thought I was clairvoyant. No, I'd just been watching the city for a long time. We all knew! The strange thing that came along was this small group of bereaved families, who really knew how to operate, and who did not speak for the rest of the group at all, but who began to roll over the politicians. 
 If there's anything a politician will roll over for, it's this kind of grief. After all the good things they vetoed or interfered with, cultural institutions like the Freedom museum because they were worried something unpatriotic might be exhibited there, they now have this memorial, and nobody has any concept how overscaled it is. A huge memorial, and these profit-making towers. Daniel Libeskind's original architectural inspiration has been stripped away, and the developer, Larry Silverstein, got everything he wanted. 
 It is a horrible failure, as far as I'm concerned. We missed the chance to make a 21st-century Rockefeller Center. 
 Lopate: One problem is that we're too Manhattan-centric in our planning. I sometimes feel that there's not enough emphasis on the other four boroughs. 
 Huxtable: In one sense they're lucky they were left alone. But in another sense it's not fair at all. This takes me back again to the Lindsay administration, which established special planning offices in every borough. They were doing very interesting work. At that time we attracted the best and the brightest into city planning. You had wonderful Ed Logue running the state's Urban Development Corporation, and he put through Roosevelt Island and other worthy affordable-housing schemes.
 Lopate: You've lived long enough to see many times when New York was counted out. In the '70s and '80s, there was much talk about the death of New York.
 Huxtable: Roger Starr had this idea of ''planned shrinkage.'' Remember that? He thought you should let parts of the city die.
 Lopate: From my perspective, there's been a healthy shift from seeing cities as basically dying to essentially buoyant, yet still requiring help. 
 Huxtable: We've seen a reversal. Years ago there was white flight to the suburbs, the inner cities were crime-ridden, there was a lot of poverty. We still have poverty, but people started moving back to the cities. 
 Lopate: There's also been a shift in attitude regarding density. 
 Huxtable: Yes, urban renewal tried to get rid of density. It was viewed as concentrating poverty and disease. Now there's the awareness that density is more energy-efficient and less destructive of the environment than urban sprawl. 
 Lopate: I take it you're for density but not for overbuilding.
 Huxtable: How can I be against density? I'm a New Yorker! I grew up with density. Still, in a way I'm glad for this downturn in the economy. Because so much bad stuff was being built. This will give us a chance to think, to take stock. I am so weary of these stupid alliances between developers and cultural institutions in which the cultural institution is given a block of space and the developers overbuild the rest and make an enormous profit. 
 The Museum of Modern Art has become a real estate operation. I admit a certain amount of nostalgia: I remember a street that was once one of the best streets in New York, 53rd Street. Watching it change over the years, I can't help but view their new Nouvel tower as the last destructive nail. 
 Lopate: You were fairly skeptical about Lincoln Center when it opened. Do you feel more warmly toward it now? 
 Huxtable: Yes, of course I feel warmer towards it; it's become such a part of New York. As the city has changed, it's become an anchor. At the time it was built, many of us thought that it would make more sense to spread your cultural facilities, which would strengthen different neighborhoods. So much is changed that even though a complex like Lincoln Center is static, it in a sense changes, too. 
 Through its functioning, it's become a beloved institution, and one reason is that open space. Whenever you go there on a night with different events, or the spring festival, with the kids dancing, it's terrific. It's still not great architecture, but by now it has acquired a nostalgic quality of a certain kind of romanticized, popularized modernism. 
 Lopate: Whenever your name comes up, what I hear is: How old is she?
 Huxtable: And that will be the first line of this piece, which I think is so unfair. It's O.K. to mention it, but don't make it in the first line! It makes me into this strange curiosity: ''She's still alive. How old is she?'' Yes, she's old! And she's cooking with gas. And she has strong opinions, and she's still writing because they want her to. As long as they ask me to do it, I'll do it.
 Lopate: So how old are you?
 Huxtable: I'm 87. I'm not ashamed of my age. But I don't want to be judged by my age. Fair?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ada Louise Huxtable in her Park Avenue apartment in 1988, photographed by Arnold Newman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARNOLD NEWMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.CY1)
Ada Louise Huxtable in Midtown in the 1970s.
The St. Urban on Central Park West, where Ms. Huxtable grew up. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BERNARD GOTFRYD/GETTY IMAGES
 BOTTOM LEFT, CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); WALKER & CO (WINTER PARK, FLORIDA) (71%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (71%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



378 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; BUSINESS WHITE PLAINS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: 10 Years On, Spanish-English Newspaper Is Bridging Worlds

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: White Plains 

 BODY:
 EL AGUILA DEL HUDSON VALLEY has something of a split personality. Every story in the newspaper runs twice, side by side -- one version in Spanish and the other, slightly shaded, in English. It's not only bilingual, but also biproduced. The paper's advertising and marketing offices are in White Plains; the layout and design in Honduras. It is published in Poughkeepsie, but edited in Honduras. 
 Recently El Aguila celebrated its 10th anniversary, and Miguel Blanco, the associate publisher, said its success was a result of its role as a bridge between different worlds. The paper, which is free, speaks to both newly arrived Latino immigrants as well as to those who have been in this country for many years, he said. 
 ''Most of my friends are people who are acculturated; they grew up here,'' Mr. Blanco, 38, said. ''That experience is completely different from the guy who just got here six months ago or even a year ago. I wanted something that was going to span the already fragmented Hispanic community.''
 The articles in English also serve as a window for non-Spanish speakers into Latino concerns, Mr. Blanco said. And he noted that not every Hispanic person speaks Spanish. 
 While a bilingual Spanish-English newspaper may seem like a natural in an area like Westchester, where Hispanics are the fastest-growing group of immigrants, it was still a hard sell at the beginning. Norma Maximo, Mr. Blanco's mother, started the newspaper on her kitchen table in Fishkill. 
 ''When I decided to do the newspaper, there was nothing in the area,'' said Ms. Maximo, 64, who immigrated from her native Honduras in 1965 and became a citizen in 1972. She had never worked for a newspaper; her background was in banking and she worked at the United States Treasury Department before starting the paper. ''I always knew Westchester was the place, because the population there was more educated and that was where we would grow,'' she said.
 She moved the business to White Plains in 1999 and recruited her son, who was working as an account executive in Houston, to help run the paper. El Aguila covers politics, the economy, education, the environment, health and other general news topics. Mr. Blanco said that he did not want to separate readers from the same information that other Americans were using to make their decisions. 
 But there is a focus on news from Central and South America, and to a lesser extent the Caribbean. Culture and sports pages play to more Latino interests. Cultural stories recently included coverage of a Brazilian who won a children's literature prize and an article on the Pulitzer Prize-winning author Junot Diaz, a Dominican-American writer. The sports pages include extensive soccer coverage. 
 ''Before El Aguila came to Westchester, we had several failed attempts to establish a newspaper that addressed the needs of immigrants and Latinos in the Hudson Valley,'' said Graciela Heymann, executive director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition. ''El Aguila followed and highlighted the topics that were important to Latinos, like the impact of federal legislation on their lives and local community efforts to address the needs of Latino immigrants.''
 An online version (www.elaguilanews.com) was launched in 2006. (The Web version appears only in Spanish, but the front page can be translated through Google.) The print version has two editions -- a lower Hudson Valley edition, with a circulation of roughly 30,000, and a mid-Hudson edition, with a circulation of 10,000. Local news and advertising are tailored to each area.
 What you won't find in El Aguila are stories about crime or sensational coverage of the Latino community.
 ''We're not looking for breaking news on who robbed who,'' Mr. Blanco said. ''Our stories are to help those who are newly arrived navigate the system and for more established citizens to get to know more about the community.''
 Westchester's Latino population is far from homogenous, which can make producing a newspaper that appeals to a broad readership difficult. According to the 2007 American Community Survey of the Census, Westchester's Hispanic population was 180,819, or about 19 percent of the county total. Readers differ in education, literacy, achievement and culture. 
 ''The Mexican community is totally different from the Puerto Rican community, which is totally different from the Dominican community or the Cuban community,'' said Maria Munoz-Kantha, president of Hispanic Women Leaders of Westchester County. ''Hispanic communities come in all different sizes, colors and shapes.'' 
 Dr. Munoz-Kantha was speaking in White Plains at the Latino Business Symposium Expo, an event that Mr. Blanco organized to celebrate the newspaper's anniversary. He said that instead of planning the usual recognition of such a milestone -- a dinner with awards given to supporters -- he wanted to put together a symposium that would draw attention to the Latino consumer market. Forums addressed health, education and business. 
 Mr. Blanco said that the mainstream press had done a poor job covering the success of immigrants, focusing instead on negative coverage. In Westchester particularly, he said, many immigrants are fully acculturated, professionally successful and relatively untapped as consumers. 
 ''I describe my reader as an upwardly mobile individual, not someone who is just here passing time, but someone who is trying to advance his situation,'' Mr. Blanco said. ''I know myself I'm always looking for opportunities to become a better newspaper executive, a better father and a better man.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALL THE NEWS: El Aguila del Hudson Valley, a bilingual newspaper, was founded by a Honduran immigrant. MILESTONE: Miguel Blanco, associate publisher, at a forum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTILINGUALISM (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (60%); CHILDREN (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); SOCCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



379 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: An Old Brownstone's Loft Aesthetic

BYLINE: By DAN SHAW

 BODY:
DEBORAH MARLAND and David Backus's airy four-story house in Park Slope, Brooklyn, feels more like a loft than a brownstone. It is crisp, clean and contemporary, which suggests that they are chic carpetbaggers, emigres to, and emblems of, the new Brooklyn.
Ms. Marland, however, has lived in this house on Park Place since the early 1970s, having moved there with her mother after graduating from high school. 
''We were living in Manhattan on 15th Street between Second and Third Avenues,'' she said. ''Then there was a fire in the kitchen, and the landlord took the opportunity to kick us out. Suddenly, we had to find a new place to live.''
They were drawn to Park Slope because Ms. Marland's mother, Pamela Marland, who taught English at Seward Park High School on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, had a colleague who had bought a wreck of a house there for only $5,000. ''He had fixed it up and there was a grand piano in the living room,'' Ms. Marland recalled. ''We fell in love.''
The fellow teacher told them about a brownstone for sale on his block. ''It was a white elephant,'' Ms. Marland said. ''The exterior had turned black and looked like it belonged to the Addams family. It was empty.''
But it had been renovated extensively. ''They had removed all the old moldings and everything,'' she said. ''The heating was electric, which they thought was the wave of the future.''
Mother and daughter bought the house for $39,000. It had been divided into two duplexes, and Ms. Marland took the top two floors, which the renovation had given a two-story atrium topped by a skylight; her mother lived on the parlor and garden floors until her death in 1992.
''We were like pioneers,'' she said. ''There weren't many homeowners on the block. There were a lot of rooming houses and gypsy cabs roaming the streets.''
Safety was a concern. ''When Macy's came to deliver mattresses, the delivery men were robbed and locked in the back of their truck,'' she recalled. ''Slowly, very slowly, the neighborhood changed.''
And so, too, did Ms. Marland's aesthetic. ''Deborah had the place filled with Victorian furniture,'' said Mr. Backus, 54, an assistant director on TV commercials. (''I am the guy who yells: ''Quiet please. Roll camera.' '')
When he moved into the house in 1984, he started lobbying for a contemporary look. ''I'm a fan of Neutra, Mies and the Seagram Building,'' he said.
The couple put their dream of modernizing the brownstone on hold when they bought an old saltbox in Orient, N.Y., as a weekend house in 1987, the year they were married. They had a 15-year mortgage on the saltbox and decided they would wait until it was paid off to renovate the Brooklyn house, said Ms. Marland, 56.
When they were finally ready to redo the brownstone, it needed more than cosmetic surgery. ''The place was falling apart; the windows were falling out,'' Mr. Backus said.
They could not decide if they needed two or three of the four floors for themselves. ''We'd been living in the downstairs duplex, but I missed the upstairs one with all the light, which we'd been renting out,'' she said. ''David thought we needed only two floors, but I told him that if he didn't want clutter, we needed three.''
They agreed that the garden floor would become the rental apartment and they hired an architect, Ron DiDonno, to reconfigure the space. To get the home they wanted, everything had to go. ''It was a brick-to-brick renovation,'' Ms. Marland said. ''Nothing is left but the staircase and the downstairs kitchen.''
As they were planning, Mr. Backus realized that the big new open space that had been created on the parlor floor would be ideal for shooting commercials. ''We've rented it to Kohl's and Champion,'' he said.
Like all renovations, it cost more than expected. ''We could have built a brand-new house for what we spent -- it was that type of expensive,'' Ms. Marland said, but she declined to specify a figure.
To economize during construction, the couple and their daughters -- Taylor, now 18, and Marland, now 15 -- camped out in the downstairs apartment. ''We didn't put things in storage,'' Ms. Marland said. ''We brought some furniture to our house in Orient and sold things on eBay, and brought everything else with us. The girls' beds were in the middle of a room filled with boxes. David and I slept in the kitchen for a year. We had no TV. I lied to the girls and told them the cable company said they could not connect it.''
Roughing it had an upside. ''My younger daughter remembers it fondly,'' Ms. Marland said. ''She liked it because she says we were all together all the time.''
They moved into their new old home in May 2005. When it came time to furnish their now-pristine rooms, they had to look for bargains. Ms. Marland found the B&B Italia sofa and Donghia dining table at sample sales. ''We still have $8 paper shades from Pintchik's on the windows,'' Ms. Marland said apologetically, referring to the local hardware store. ''We got burned out.''
She acknowledges that maintaining a spare, contemporary living space is a major challenge. ''It's a lot to live up to,'' said Ms. Marland, who asks visitors to remove their shoes so they don't scuff the Brazilian cherry floors. ''We didn't want to polyurethane them, so we had them oiled. But no one warned us that almost anything will scratch them.''
They are also hesitant to hang anything on the walls, for fear of marring their perfect smoothness. ''Some of our friends call the place the museum,'' Mr. Backus said, ''because we have all these empty white walls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN WITH THE NEW: Deborah Marland and David Backus, with Marland, 15, redid their longtime home. (pg.RE1)
OUT WITH THE OLD: David Backus, Deborah Marland and their daughter Marland, top, in their redesigned brownstone in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Their architect, Ron DiDonno, created a contemporary interior that includes a streamlined kitchen. The family lives on the three upper floors
 the garden floor is rented. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



380 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Sure, It All Sounds Grand, but Don't Forget the Gravitas

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN

 BODY:
WE will soon have a new leader of the United States. He will have considerable power, yet obviously not nearly enough to deliver on everything that has been promised. With these limitations in mind, herewith are a few suggestions regarding some of the pitfalls ahead in handling economic policy: 
 HAVE REALISTIC EXPECTATIONS Plan what must be done to effect the minimum amount of change you'll be happy with. All politicians basically promise the moon and the stars to their supporters. For any new president, it's crucial to try to decide what can be reasonably changed -- like naming a new Treasury secretary and having higher taxes for the wealthy. Then the president must set to work on those while his prestige and mandate are still fresh and strong. 
 CHAMPION ONLY THE SERIOUS IDEAS Don't sign on to any economic policy proposals without some statistical or theoretical heft to them. 
 The Republicans lost this election partly because of the heritages of pie-in-the-sky supply-side economics and excess deregulation. I doubt very much that a Democratic president is going to become a supply-sider, but in the campaign there were some other ideas that sound good but have no rigor to them.
 Alternative energy sounds nice. But here in California, we have poured plenty of money -- in the form of tax credits -- into solar power and wind power. The contribution of these sources to our statewide energy product has been very modest. This doesn't mean that the effort should not be made. But there is a limit to taxpayer resources, and it may be that tax subsidies are not the way to go here.
 Likewise, job retraining for workers in industries affected by foreign competition makes anecdotal sense. But the statistical results about this are highly mixed. Maybe some form of relocation assistance would be better. 
 I am endlessly amazed that I have to pay about $60 an hour to hang a mirror in Rancho Mirage, Calif., and that there is a shortage of reliable handymen there. This has implications for hard-working machinists being laid off in Detroit. Maybe there is some merit to a fund that would take workers where they want to go and are needed.
 Another campaign idea was a reconsideration of free trade. But trying to roll back free trade is like putting toothpaste back in the tube. It rarely works, and it makes a tremendous mess while you are trying. The retaliation involved in erecting trade barriers is almost never worthwhile. 
 Basic hint: If an idea lacks any convincing theory or data to support it, maybe it's best to avoid it.
 BAIL OUT DETROIT Yes, an America without a large automobile and truck industry is not America. This country cannot possibly be a first-class power without maintaining a large motor industry.
 The national security considerations make saving General Motors, Ford and Chrysler a life-or-death matter. And the good men and women who make our fine cars have at least as much claim to government help as farmers and bankers do. We'll want a G.M. or a Chrysler when it's time to make tanks and Humvees and need their workers' skills. 
 HAVE GOOD PEOPLE AROUND And that especially means men and women without axes to grind. The president-elect has some of the best brains on earth around him, especially Warren E. Buffett and Paul A. Volcker. It's important to make full use of them.
 STAY HUMBLE No matter how many electoral votes a president receives, he is mortal. He will make mistakes. Events will pile up that are too much for anyone to handle, so he should be ready to pray over them. A president will be beaten down more than he can expect, and if he is ready with humility, he will be far ahead of the game. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEN STEIN: Lawyer, writer, actor and economist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WIND ENERGY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); POLITICS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); TRADE DISPUTES (64%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



381 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis Last Time

BYLINE: By RICHARD PARKER. 
Richard Parker, an economist, teaches at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. He is the author of ''John Kenneth Galbraith: His Life, His Politics, His Economics.''

 BODY:
For writers who seek to influence public affairs, timing plays a paramount role. And few writers have had better timing than Adolf Augustus Berle. 
 In the summer of 1932, with America trapped in the greatest financial crisis in its history, Berle published ''The Modern Corporation and Private Property,'' a scholarly yet readable analysis of America's largest companies and their managers. Berle is largely forgotten today, yet with that book he succeeded in persuading Americans to see their economic system in a new way -- and helped set the stage for the most fundamental realignment of power since abolition. 
 The stock market had plunged vertiginously three years earlier, and by 1932 Americans were desperate to reverse the much wider collapse that had ensued -- and to make sure it wouldn't happen again. The New Republic was soon hailing ''The Modern Corporation'' as the book of the year, while The New York Herald Tribune pronounced it ''the most important work bearing on American statecraft'' since the Federalist Papers. Louis Brandeis would cite its arguments in a major Supreme Court ruling on corporate power. Running for president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt recruited Berle -- a Republican Wall Street lawyer who had supported Hoover -- to join his ''brain trust,'' and that fall entrusted him with drafting what became the most important speech of the campaign. After the election, Berle remained in New York, yet his connection to the president he audaciously addressed as ''Dear Caesar'' was such that Time would characterize ''The Modern Corporation'' as ''the economic bible of the Roosevelt administration.'' 
 At first glance, the book would hardly seem to merit such broad acclaim. But if the topic was limited, Berle's analysis was not. He used the data compiled by his co-author, the economist Gardiner Means, to examine how markets had become concentrated in just a few hundred firms and how senior managers had wrested power from the companies' legal owners, the shareholders. No radical, Berle was eager to preserve the corporate system, which he called ''the flower of our industrial organization.'' But he now believed that new controls would have to balance ''a variety of claims by various groups in the community'' -- not just its managers or shareholders -- and assign ''to each a portion of the income stream on the basis of public policy rather than private cupidity.'' 
 In 1932, as in our own moment of financial crisis, most Americans could see that something needed to be done because these new behemoths -- which had turned America from a nation of farmers into the world's largest industrial power -- were on the verge of collapse, poised like Samson to pull the entire economy down with them. Berle's genius in ''The Modern Corporation'' was to align his professional insights with the public's fears, and its anger. As he starkly put it in his preface, ''Between a political organization of society and an economic organization of society, which will be the dominant form?'' 
 In Theodore Roosevelt's and Woodrow Wilson's era, reformers like Brandeis had argued that strict antimonopoly and anti-collusion laws could return America to a place of small firms and farms, the beau ideal of Adam Smith's market model. But Americans continued rushing to the cities, spurring an explosion in mass consumption, financed by a boom in cheap consumer credit and easy home loans. Then, in 1929, the markets crashed. 
 The crash for a time reinvigorated not only the anti-monopolists, but also union organizers, socialists, agrarian populists and crackpot utopians. It also brought forth ''forward looking'' chief executives like Gerald Swope of General Electric, who supported progressive corporatism -- a world of government-mandated business cartels in exchange for higher wages, improved working conditions, and corporate-based workers' compensation, pension and unemployment plans. Berle, however, was keen on none of these solutions. In his book, he explained that giant corporations were not ''natural'' economic institutions but recent inventions of the law, cobbled together on the remains of the medieval corporation, a quite different institution. What the Depression showed, he argued, was that modern corporations had failed not only stockholders, but the public -- and would do so again, if left unregulated. 
 But what sort of regulation was required? On details, Berle was maddeningly but deliberately vague. What he did say clearly was that government needed to bear final responsibility for the economy by using its powers to balance supply and demand. It would also need to require corporate directors to manage the managers, not just for shareholders' benefit but in accordance with new rules codifying the collective rights of stakeholders and the broader social responsibilities of corporations. 
 The impact of Berle's ideas was no doubt enhanced by his decidedly nonradical biography. The son of a reform-minded Congregational minister and his wealthy wife, he had entered Harvard at 14 and finished Harvard Law School at 21 -- at the time its youngest graduate ever. (Arrogant as well as gifted, he once showed up in Felix Frankfurter's class the semester after completing it. Puzzled, Frankfurter asked him why he was back. ''Oh,'' Berle replied, ''I wanted to see if you'd learned anything since last year.'') After a year at Louis Brandeis's firm, he briefly did public-interest legal work before marrying well and settling down to a prosperous career in Wall Street corporate law. 
 As clients flocked to him, however, he began questioning the very system that was making them (and him) rich. In 1923, alarmed by the venality, the chicanery and frequently the stupidity of Wall Street, he started writing articles that over the next several years would virtually invent the modern field of corporate finance law, emphasizing moderate solutions. After Columbia Law School offered him a job in 1927, he began cycling between his lucrative practice downtown and his teaching uptown. 
 But the Great Crash -- and the subsequent revelations of market manipulation, fraud and reckless risk-taking -- forced Berle to change sides. He was a Mugwump Republican, but the economic chaos of the Depression, and the threat it posed to American democracy, convinced him a new sort of regulation was now unavoidable. 
 In late 1931, Franklin Roosevelt, then governor of New York, called on the Columbia political scientist Raymond Moley. Roosevelt was weighing a run for president and was looking for fresh ideas. Moley quickly approached Berle and connected the two ambitious Harvard men. 
 A month after ''The Modern Corporation'' appeared, Berle drafted Roosevelt's famous Commonwealth Club address, delivered in September 1932. Proclaiming that ''the day of enlightened administration has come,'' Roosevelt articulated the rationale for much of the New Deal's financial and corporate reforms, including deposit insurance and securities regulation. He defended the coming government interventions as protecting individualism and private property against concentrated economic power. Calling for a new ''economic constitutional order,'' he declared it our common duty to ''build toward the time when a major depression cannot occur again.'' 
 ''None of Roosevelt's speeches,'' Arthur Schlesinger Jr. later wrote, ''caught up more poignantly the intellectual moods of the early Depression than this one.'' It helped assure his landslide victory -- and earned Berle a series of ever more important posts in the administration. America began an unprecedented 40-year expansion. 
 By the Reagan era, however, a new philosophy would take hold, and the public oversight of markets that Berle helped pioneer would over time be swept aside, in confident belief that markets could self-regulate and that government was the problem, not the solution. 
 Today, that era itself seems to be coming to end, and the question Berle posed -- will democracy rule the corporations, or will the corporations rule democracy? -- seems a profoundly important one worth asking again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WALKER/THE NEW YORK TIMES (1969)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



382 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FRESH STARTS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Required: Empathy And Kleenex

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
Fresh Starts is a monthly column about emerging jobs and job trends.

 BODY:
IT may be hard to see a silver lining in the current economic crisis, but if you happen to be a loan workout specialist, things are looking up.
 As banks and other financial institutions grapple with huge loan defaults, they turn to workout specialists for help. These professionals examine a portfolio of loans, identify those in trouble and work with the borrower, the bank and lawyers to resolve problems and create a repayment plan. Not only must they understand how loans are structured, they are also part detective, part diplomat and, often, part therapist. 
 ''It can be rewarding, when you resolve something in a way that is satisfying to everyone. But it can also get ugly,'' said Alexander G. Thomson, managing director of the global real estate practice at Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search firm based in New York. 
 Not since the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s has demand for workout specialists been so intense. Patricia Lynch, an executive recruiter at Tapfin Process Solutions, recruited for the financial services industry during that time. She said that many of those who lost jobs back then became workout specialists. ''They were credit and lending professionals, real estate appraisers and attorneys,'' she said.
 Workout specialists restructure loans owned by commercial entities like banks, private equity funds and corporations. They also work with individual homeowners. The salary depends on the level of experience, but corporate work can pay between $100,000 and $250,000, according to recruiters. Specialists who work with individuals or for nonprofit groups that assist those facing foreclosure or with credit card debt are usually paid less than $100,000.
 The problem is finding such specialists.
 ''Anyone who entered the work force after 1993 had almost nothing but positive real estate markets, except for certain pockets after the tech bubble burst,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''So a whole generation of people now in finance have no experience in this.'' 
 Most specialists acquired their skills on the job. ''We look for people who began their careers as financial or business analysts, or in risk management,'' said Mitchell Feldman, president of A.E. Feldman Associates, an executive recruitment firm in Manhattan. ''You need to be able to analyze cash flow, do financial modeling, valuations and credit risk analysis.''
 Some financial workers who were recently laid off may have a hard time finding jobs as workout specialists because they don't have the right experience. Those who structured commercial real estate financing deals or have merger-and-acquisition experience -- which requires deal-making and negotiating skills -- are in the best position to find work in this area, said Stephen B. Selbst, a workout/restructuring specialist with the law firm Herrick, Feinstein in New York. 
 People with many years of experience are needed to head groups of less-experienced workout specialists, and may be assigned a portfolio of hundreds of millions to several billion dollars worth of underperforming or nonperforming mortgages, said Tim Reagan, an executive recruiter with Magellan International who places workout specialists in banks and large corporations.
 Robbin L. Itkin, a partner with the Los Angeles office of the law firm Steptoe & Johnson, has been doing loan workouts for 20 years. She has represented corporations and high-profile, high-net-worth individuals for decades and now specializes in restructuring debt.
 Ms. Itkin says a nonfinance-related trait is needed for this kind of work: empathy. ''There's a psychological component in all of this,'' she said. ''You learn the most intimate facts about someone's life -- how they spend their money, whom they support, what they buy.''
 FOR individuals, workout specialists help with mortgage loans and credit card debt. Howard S. Dvorkin, founder of Consolidated Credit Counseling Services in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., a nonprofit credit counseling organization that serves mostly consumers, said that all of his credit counselors do loan workouts. They have a college education and generally 5 to 10 years of experience in finance. 
 Over the last 18 months, Mr. Dvorkin said, calls to Consolidated have been up 80 percent. Jorge Ruiz, who spent years working for banks generating mortgages, is now one of the organization's credit counselors. Mr. Ruiz does a financial analysis for clients and creates a budget that enables them to begin to meet their financial obligations.
 ''We look at what expenses can be eliminated or lowered, such as cable TV, gas bills for transportation, extracurricular activities for kids, whatever it is,'' Mr. Ruiz said. ''Then I negotiate with the banking institutions and lawyers.'' 
 The hardest part of his job, though, isn't the negotiations and calculations but witnessing the enormous emotional toll that financial problems have taken. He buys boxes of Kleenex in bulk.
 ''People come to me because they are in trouble and because they need help. If you do this work, you have to find a way to be strong, because it's difficult,'' Mr. Ruiz said. ''People just break down. No one who comes here is having a good day.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robbin L. Itkin of the law firm Steptoe & Johnson has been doing loan workouts for 20 years and now specializes in restructuring debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MERGERS (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); LAWYERS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%)

COMPANY: RUSSELL REYNOLDS ASSOCIATES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



383 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Put Away the Wish List, and Help Households Bounce Back

BYLINE: By PETER BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
 CAMPAIGN talk was all very well, but the new president will have to start his administration with serious business. He should begin his Inaugural Address by saying that most campaign promises must be put on a wait list while he gives his full attention to the critical condition of the economy. There is no time for lengthy deliberation and debate.
 The restoration of some kind of liquidity and order to the financial sector is the first step to recovery. The departing administration has properly made the financial sector its priority, and its efforts appear to be bearing fruit. But these efforts have not been enough. 
 The president's most important priority should be to support the household sector. Households and their mortgages were the key to the onset of crisis. Now, with unemployment rising and home prices still falling, the new administration must help households first if we are to have any hope of reversing the devastating course of a recession. Households are the primary customers of American business.
 To begin, the president should ask Congress to immediately extend unemployment insurance benefits by six months. But that step, while welcome, is only a balm, not a cure. The cure will develop from a plan to bring stability to home prices. There are two reasons for this emphasis.
 First, we can trace the origins of the crisis to the growing pace of defaults on subprime mortgages in the summer of 2007. Until we can contain the defaults on these mortgages and the resulting impact of foreclosure on home prices, the downward pressure on prices will persist. Without such action, these vicious problems will continue to feed on themselves, with further defaults, further fire sales of good homes, further declines in home prices, further threats to the solvency of financial institutions and, most important, further shredding of the morale and the hopes of millions of Americans. 
 The second reason for focusing on the household sector is the special situation of the current national economy. In earlier recessions, the household sector responded to the pressures of recession but was not the driving force behind those pressures. Now, because of a mortgage crisis induced by falling home prices, millions of people -- including those who acted prudently -- are in deep trouble with no clear path back to good jobs and steady incomes. 
 The risk here is not just humanitarian. Indeed, the risk is also to the preservation of the social structure of democracy and to the future progress of America. 
 There is a limit to how far government guarantees can go, because of the variety of complications in dealing with the mortgage mess. In particular, many mortgages were packaged as collateral for newly created fixed-income paper now owned by investors and institutions all around the world. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. proposed a federal government purchase of this so-called toxic paper from financial institutions, which had the attraction of setting a price on these obligations and rendering some liquidity to them. But the mortgages would still be outstanding, and the names of the homeowners who took out those mortgages would still be there. Hence, the ownership of the mortgages might change, but the debtor would still be the same family or individual owing the same amount of money. The main concern now is to help the lender and the homeowner simultaneously.
 A solution to these dilemmas would greatly improve the chances of reaching the primary goal: stabilization of home prices. To achieve it, we must alter the terms of these mortgages to contain the foreclosure process and, in time, bring it to an end. Only then can we shrink the number of houses under forced sale conditions and stop the downward pressure on prices. 
 A compulsory change in mortgage terms would initially appear to damage the lender in order to protect the borrower. But lenders are in as much trouble as borrowers because they cannot collect the money owed them and have little chance of selling a home at a price that would enable them to come out whole. Lenders and borrowers are in this crisis together. 
 The best solution proposed so far has been from Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Under this proposal, servicers of mortgages would rewrite outstanding mortgages to a more affordable level for the homeowner by lowering the principal amount owed, by reducing the interest rate, by extending the maturity -- which would reduce monthly payments -- or by combining these steps. In addition, the government would share a portion of the losses in these mortgages if they went into default. 
 WHILE this arrangement would mean a lower return than the lender originally expected, the ultimate results would be better and less risky than the losses now being incurred. 
 Others will come up with improvements to this plan or offer different models, but the main point is to intervene promptly, directly and powerfully to counter the home price debacle. 
 Only then can we begin to restore hope and optimism to Americans and to the outlook for our economy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PETER BERNSTEIN: A financial consultant, economic historian and editor of the Economics & Portfolio Strategy newsletter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); FORECLOSURE (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



384 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Rating the Loan Process

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FEWER people are qualifying for home loans these days, and those who do often face more paperwork and longer processing times than before.
 But loan applicants don't seem very bothered -- at least according to a new survey by J. D. Power & Associates of nearly 4,300 loan customers in the 12 months that ended on June 30. Out of a possible 1,000 points on J. D. Power's customer satisfaction scale, mortgage originators scored 757, up from the industry's average of 750 in the previous two years.
 The more positive results had less to do with the lenders, however, and more to do with lower expectations, said Tim Ryan, director of the financial services practice at J. D. Power, a research company based in Westlake Village, Calif. 
 ''The public has been so inundated with negative stories about the industry, expectations have been beaten down,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''Then, when you actually get your loan, it's a more appealing experience.''
 Borrowers are also less likely to face inexperienced or incompetent loan officers than two years ago, when the real estate market was stronger and the mortgage industry was awash in new loan officers in search of easy commissions. 
 ''Large national lenders say that because so many companies have gone out of business -- be they brokers or lenders -- the surviving companies have had their pick of good loan officers,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 ''Part of being good means providing timelines and asking for good information up front.''
 Realistic timelines have been especially important over the last year, as lenders have more carefully scrutinized mortgage applications. It now takes about 11 days between an application and approval, Mr. Ryan said, which is one day longer than last year. Among other things, lenders are now more likely to seek additional documents, like paycheck stubs and bank statements.
 This year's survey was the first in which J. D. Power sought opinions about the trustworthiness of loan originators. Of the respondents, 43 percent said they felt their loan officer had customers' best interests in mind, and only 54 percent felt strongly that their loan officer dealt honestly with them.
 Gene Tricozzi, the immediate past president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, says he expects trust levels to improve as regulators require mortgage originators to meet stricter licensing requirements. ''Consumers will be in touch with better-educated originators,'' he said.
 Of course, the mortgage process is already more straightforward than it was at the height of the real estate bubble, when borrowers faced more loan choices than they do now.
 As more exotic loan products disappeared amid the credit crisis, and as the real estate market softened, loan volume dropped sharply.
 Last year in New York State, for example, borrowers originated about 395,000 mortgages, roughly 110,000 fewer than in 2006, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, an industry group in Washington. 
 Those loans, meanwhile, were $13,000 bigger, on average, than mortgages originated in 2006. And according to local mortgage executives, a greater share of the loans went to borrowers with good, or ''prime,'' credit. 
 It may be a coincidence that more financially sophisticated -- and, according to J. D. Power, more skeptical -- borrowers received more mainstream loans and were also more satisfied than in past years. 
 Then again, given the current lending environment, anyone who gets a loan might be happy.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mortgage rates (source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (63%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



385 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; WINTER IN THE SUN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Jamaica's Golden Age

BYLINE: By DAVID G. ALLAN

 BODY:
Many hot spots around the globe had just a brief time in the sun -- a moment when they were the it destination for celebrities and the wealthy of their era. For Jamaica, that golden age was the 1950s and early '60s, when the island was slotted into the jet-set itinerary after Florida and before Barbados.
 The island's spotlight brightened and dimmed in concert with the birth of international celebrity and the vagaries of international politics, but it was lighted in World War II, when Jamaica was a British colony and an Allied base, and its strategic importance led to increased aid and infrastructure development. 
 In the postwar years, a number of famous or wealthy early adopters started building resorts and second homes on the island, among them bellwether celebrities like the James Bond creator Ian Fleming, who wrote about Jamaica's finer qualities; the writer and actor Noel Coward, who was photographed at his Jamaica home for Life magazine; and Errol Flynn, the George Clooney of his day. As word of their island lifestyle spread, other celebrities followed: Clark Gable, Charlie Chaplin, Katharine Hepburn, Alec Guinness, Laurence Olivier and more. 
 ''It was the beginning of modern tourism,'' said Paul Issa, son of Abe Issa, the founder of the Couples resort chain and known as the father of Jamaican tourism. ''Jamaica became a very in place, beginning with Round Hill,'' he said, referring to the high-end resort on the North Coast that has been the standard-bearer since 1953. ''Everyone follows the rich and famous.'' 
 New commercial jet routes, first from Miami then direct from New York and London, made it easier for these pioneering tourists to reach Jamaica. And the influx of foreign capital led to more accommodations and restaurants, even in the now-crime-crippled capital. Kingston was once a jewel in the Caribbean crown, with large glamorous hotels, downtown cable cars and flourishing shopping districts. 
 But the postwar boom also coincided with a Caribbean-wide desire for self-rule and independence from weakened European nations. In 1962, not long after Fidel Castro led a Communist revolution in Cuba, Jamaica earned full independence. ''In the 1970s, we had a government that espoused democratic socialist ideals and put off tourism,'' Mr. Issa said.
 ''Jamaica went through a phase where it became close with Cuba, alienating America and becoming financially troubled,'' said Chris Blackwell, the founder of Island Records, which started the career of Bob Marley and many others and who now owns a collection of boutique resorts in the country, including Fleming's former home, Goldeneye. 
 By aligning itself with Cuba's socialist model, Jamaica saw a flight of needed capital, business interests and tourists. Jamaica flexed its independence muscles with needed reforms like free education, broke down long-held class barriers and rediscovered its own identity through home-grown traditions like Rastafarianism and reggae. But it also witnessed the rise of political violence, corruption and street gangs in Kingston.
 ''All that would have made the people staying in Round Hill uncomfortable,'' said Justine Henzell, a Kingston native and daughter of Perry Henzell, a writer of the Jimmy Cliff film ''The Harder They Come.'' 
 Ms. Henzell, who considers herself part of the reggae generation of the 1970s, compares Jamaica's modern history to a child who has grown from the infantile reliance on colonial guardians, went through the inevitable rebellious teenage years of new independence and is finally growing up. ''We're much more mature now,'' she said, ''but we had to go through that, we had to act out, like all emerging nations.''
 Though the unrest kept some tourists away, the island's sunny beaches and renowned hospitality lured others. But these tourists began staying behind gated walls in new all-inclusive resorts with private beaches, full meals and airport-to-hotel transportation bringing visitors to the country without really seeing it. ''When people are shut up behind walls, they lose so much of what Jamaica is about,'' Ms. Henzell said. ''And we lose because, for example, the live music scene isn't as vibrant as it could be.'' 
 And while the nation still struggles economically and Kingston still endures street violence, it may be turning a corner. At least that's the hope and promise of resorts being developed and renovated, like Goldeneye (adding a 100-acre residential development) and the old Tower Isle (now a Couples property, scheduled to open in March), and a nation that has mellowed into adulthood. Jamaica, Mr. Issa said, ''is poised to be hot again.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); RETAILERS (70%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); WRITERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAMAICA (95%); CUBA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BARBADOS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



386 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Social Currency

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
RUSHCARD
 While recent months have found millions of Americans nervously eyeing their mutual-fund holdings, money-market accounts and credit-card bills, millions of other Americans continue to live their financial lives completely outside this system. Figures vary, but by one widely cited estimate 10 million American households have no bank account. And plenty of businesses sell financial alternatives to the ''unbanked'' -- check-cashing places, for instance. In recent years, another alternative has emerged: instead of converting a paycheck into cash, prepaid cards let users pour it into a piece of branded plastic. Aside from competing on the basis of price (check-cashing fees can be brutal) and convenience (a prepaid card can be used to pay a utility bill online, for instance), at least some of this plastic purports to offer something less quantifiable. 
 Consider, for instance, the Prepaid Visa RushCard, the product of a partnership between Unifund (a Cincinnati company best known for buying up and collecting on bad debts) and Russell Simmons, a founder of Def Jam records and the Phat Farm apparel brand. According to an ad, the ''entrepreneur and philanthropist'' Simmons devised the card because he ''thinks everyone should be financially empowered.'' There's no credit check, and obviously you don't need a bank account. ''We created the prepaid RushCard,'' Simmons says in the spot, ''so everyone will have access to the American dream.'' That sounds a little bland for someone with Simmons's brand-building panache, but recently, in The Economist, Simmons gave his pitch a bit more zing by suggesting (in terms that can only be paraphrased here) that the card has aphrodisiac properties. 
 The point he was making, however earthily, was that plastic and status are intertwined in contemporary America. Ram Palaniappan, general manager of RushCard, offers the more sober formulation that the cards are meant to offer the ''dignity'' of inclusion to consumers otherwise left at the margins of American money culture. Thus that RushCard TV spot depicts respectable middle-class types shopping in department stores or picking up the check on behalf of a cash-toting pal. Palaniappan says the company has issued 1.5 million RushCards since 2003 and figures the card is poised to do well in the current economy, partly because more people will find themselves pushed to the margins but still desiring the convenience -- and status -- of plastic with a credit-card logo on it. 
 There are two versions of the RushCard, one with a sleek black design and the other pink and bearing the logo of Baby Phat, the trendy women's clothing line. But Palaniappan quickly brushes past the brand appeal of the RushCard: ''We're really focused on helping people,'' he emphasizes. ''When our customer deals with us, it's someone who understands their situation.'' Not just compared with check-cashing places, he asserts, but compared with traditional banks, which can levy tough overdraft charges on minimal savers who slip up and dip below minimum required balances when filling up the gas tank. And he points to the recently added ''RushPath to Credit'' feature, which reports debit transactions to a credit-reporting agency, on the theory that this will help the user assemble a positive profile. 
 Still, the RushCard is an entrepreneurial venture, not a philanthropic one. And one critique of prepaid cards -- Wal-Mart offers one, as do others -- is that this ''empowerment'' comes at a price: the RushCard costs $19.95 to obtain, and $1 per transaction to use (that fee is capped at $10 a month). Using one to draw money from an A.T.M. costs $1.95 plus whatever the A.T.M.'s owner tacks on. While direct deposits are free, there are fees to add money in the form of cash (at services like MoneyGram or CheckFreePay) or paper checks. If this sounds like a lot to pay for the privilege of spending your own money, well, that's a pretty routine scenario for the unbanked. Prepaid cards can work out better than other options, like those high-fee check-cashing stores, though as with any currency instrument, the details depend on the situation -- and the behavior -- of the consumer.
 After all, an actual credit card might represent interest-free loans deployed by a savvy consumer, or it might represent ruinous debt. It seems odd that flashing a piece of plastic that might be the engine of negative net worth could represent social status worth emulating, but surely that's the case: the currency that the RushCard and its competitors help users manage is, at least in part, the social kind.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); PREPAID CARDS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BRANDING (75%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (66%); RETAILERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



387 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Condo Developers Change Tack

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

DATELINE: NEW LONDON 

 BODY:
 DEVELOPERS of two waterfront condominium projects, one in this city's historic downtown and the other adjoining it, have resorted to a jointly sponsored sealed-bid promotion to attract buyers. 
 Units remain unsold in the complexes -- Shaw's Landing, by Oaktree Development of Cambridge, Mass., and Harbor Club, by Cathartes Private Investments of Boston -- after more than two years of marketing. The shortage of buyers suggests that New London still has a way to go in remaking its image from a downtrodden city to a premier waterfront location halfway between Boston and New York. 
 Yet investors emphasize that they are not discouraged by the condo closeout sale -- and not just because conditions are tough all over. Downtown New London's progress toward revitalization has been slow but steady over the past five or six years, they say, and improvements are continuing, even in the face of the national economic crisis. 
 Right across Bank Street from Shaw's Landing, for example, construction is under way on Harbour Towers, a 50-unit high-end condominium project. Also, the city recently broke ground on a $10 million redesign of an elevated public plaza called the Parade, in an effort to encourage pedestrian traffic between the heavily used transit centers on the riverfront and the shops and restaurants downtown. 
 The country's painful economic slide feels less severe in a city accustomed to hard times, said Charlotte Hennegan, a downtown loyalist who has bought and renovated four buildings there since 1993. ''We've been down so long that it doesn't impact us so much,'' she said. 
 A seaport city at the mouth of the Thames River, New London has struggled for decades to recover from the loss of military dollars that once fueled its economy. The arrival of Pfizer Inc. in 2001 raised hopes of renewal, but an accompanying redevelopment plan for the Fort Trumbull neighborhood became mired in legal battles after the city declared it would take residents' property by eminent domain. The United States Supreme Court ultimately ruled in the city's favor in a widely criticized 2005 decision, but the plan remains stalled. Last May, the New London Development Corporation, the nonprofit agency overseeing the project, terminated its agreement with the chosen developer and is seeking new proposals, according to its chairman, Michael Joplin.
 The new Pfizer facility attracted other investors, who rushed in to buy many of the 19th-century brick buildings that line Bank Street, parallel to the riverfront, and smaller cross streets. Yet even though investors were able to buy buildings for an average of just $20 per square foot, ''unfortunately, they didn't always renovate them,'' said Jane Walsh, a broker with Pequot Commercial. 
 While empty storefronts persist, the downtown area offers enough restaurants and bars to draw a reliable clientele from the suburbs and nearby colleges on weekends. Over the last five years, city-backed incentives have helped bring more people downtown by encouraging development of at least 135 rental apartments in the upper stories of commercial buildings, said Harry Smith, the city planner.
 Just outside the City Center District, on Pequot Avenue, Cathartes Private Investments saw development potential in what its Web site describes as ''an underused apartment building,'' the Harbor Club. The company bought the building in 2005 and converted it into 42 condominiums. As of last week, all but 10 units had sold. Original prices ranged from about $180,000 (for a studio without a water view) to $350,000 (for a two-bedroom with a direct water view). 
 On Bank Street in 2004, Oaktree Development began building the first phase of Shaw's Landing, with 35 units. Prices are higher there, from about $200,000 to $400,000; units are larger and all have some sort of water view, said Cheryl Desmond, the sales director for both projects. Seven units were unsold last week. 
 The companies pooled their resources and offered the remaining condos through a sealed-bid process that began Oct. 3. They set the suggested minimums at 20 to 35 percent below the original prices, and gave buyers until Nov. 9 to submit offers. 
 Although Ms. Desmond said the suggested minimums ''are not set in stone,'' she emphasized that ''this is not a fire sale.'' 
 ''It's to accelerate the final closings of the communities,'' she said. ''Their desire was to be sold out by this time, but the market being what it is, it's slow.'' 
 As a result, the second and third phases of Shaw's Landing, including a promised pool, have been postponed indefinitely, said Gwendolen Noyes, a partner in Oaktree. 
 The stalled sales may have more to do with Oaktree's misreading of the New London market than a lack of interest among buyers, said Frank McLaughlin, the founder of the McLaughlin Companies, which owns 65 rental apartments in six renovated buildings in the center city. ''They underdeveloped in terms of design,'' he said, ''and they overpriced when they first came to market.'' 
 Downtown rentals, on the other hand, have done well, he said, particularly among young single professionals, many paying upward of $1,000 a month. 
 Mr. Joplin, a general contractor who owns four buildings downtown, said he rarely has more than one vacancy at his 81-unit Crocker House apartment building on State Street. A former New London resident who returned to the area a decade ago after living elsewhere, he is converting 2,000 square feet on the ground floor of another State Street building into five artists' studios and a gallery; the studios have already been rented, at $287 a month each. 
 Artists and musicians have helped give the downtown a creative edge over generic shopping centers. But retail outlets, which include a vintage clothing store, a purveyor of fair trade goods and antiques shops, still lack foot traffic, Ms. Hennegan said. Her own efforts to liven up the retail scene include Thames River Greenery, a combination florist and sandwich shop; and a bistro and cheese market called Brie & Bleu. 
 She is counting on the redesign of the Parade plaza to open up views of downtown to anyone passing through the ferry terminal and rail station. A $750,000 study financed by the state is examining how to maximize the economic potential of the transit facilities. 
 It may be five years or so before the downtown achieves a sustainable mix of retail and residential properties, Mr. Joplin said, but at least there is forward momentum. Ten years ago, he added, ''you could take an afternoon nap on the paint line in the middle of Bank Street.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DOWNTOWN ON THE SOUND: New London is pinning its hopes on both its picturesque old buildings, like these on Bank Street, and new condo projects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); RETAILERS (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); SUBURBS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (81%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (81%); PFEB (BRU) (81%); PFE (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



388 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Hearts Full of Sorrow

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF. 
Ben Ratliff is a music critic for The Times and the author of ''The Jazz Ear: Conversations Over Music,'' which is being published this month.

 BODY:
DELTA BLUES
 The Life and Times of the Mississippi Masters Who Revolutionized American Music
 By Ted Gioia. Illustrated by Neil Harpe
 449 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95.
 It has been 70 years since Robert Johnson's death and 25 since Muddy Waters's. It has been 16 years since the founding of the House of Blues nightclub chain and eight years since the burning of Junior's Place, in Chulahoma, Miss., one of the last of the great Delta juke joints. We are in the post-history of the blues, and at this point we might as well set some requirements, guards against benign nonsense, for new books on all blues, but especially Delta blues. 
 Here are some: One, no overwriting and no cliches. Two, a thorough awareness of the notion that blues fetishism, by collectors, producers and writers, has been equally damaging and helpful. Three, the newest discographical and biographical information, as much as possible. (In some cases, it's all we have to rely on -- a man or a woman was in such a room at such a time.) Four, no pious implications that the blues always represents righteousness, truth and tradition. These were performers; grant them their artifice. (Also, as little positive use of the word ''simple'' as possible. Same for negative use. Neutral use is O.K.) Five, a sure fix on the best musicians as both extraordinary artists and ordinary subjects of history. 
 After that, do what you want. 
 On the second page of the preface to ''Delta Blues,'' his new survey, Ted Gioia explains his middle-aged transition to a deeper level of interest in the blues. ''My attraction to traditional blues,'' he writes, ''was no doubt fueled by my growing dissatisfaction with the overpowering commercialization and commoditization I encountered elsewhere in the music world. Traditional blues' stubborn allegiance to its own guiding lights, its resistance to corporate interference, its blissful ignorance of music videos and trendy radio formats, its affirmation of its own inexpressibly rich heritage. . . .'' 
 No! 
 But a few pages later, the book starts to be tremendously useful. Gioia, the author of three books on jazz and two books on music as social function (''Work Songs'' and ''Healing Songs''), keeps jumping between several different levels. He describes the Delta blues as a critic, writing from hard listening. He traces its history through real-life issues -- migration, labor, audiences, record sales, nightclubs -- pausing every so often to delineate how different the story of this music is, in which someone who was unknown in his own time, like Johnson, can be the king of it. 
 And he attempts to triangulate a kind of leveled-out truth about the blues, weighing dozens of accounts from both the artists and their associates. In this book you become as familiar with researchers, historians, producers and biographers like Alan Lomax, Stephen Calt, Mack McCormick, H. C. Speir and Gayle Wardlow as you do with Son House, Tommy Johnson, Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf. 
 As Robert Palmer did in ''Deep Blues'' (1981) -- a slimmer, more mysterious, more urgent book -- Gioia fills an early chapter with the findings of Charles Peabody, the Harvard archaeologist who explored Coahoma County, Miss., in 1901, and with the memoirs of W. C. Handy, the composer of ''St. Louis Blues.'' Handy's nickname was ''Father of the Blues''; he was also one of its first fantasists, writing about ''the beauty of primitive music'' after his initial encounters with blues musicians in Mississippi, early in the 20th century, and describing it as ''the weirdest music I had ever heard.'' 
 Unlike Palmer, Gioia doesn't spend much time connecting the blues to West African performance patterns and rituals. He favors, instead, its evolution from black antebellum work songs. And in general, as he moves along, he uses work to drive the narrative: how economic opportunities affected musicians, what money and motivation the blues might have offered them, and how their own work ethics and aesthetics squared with those of their audiences. 
 So the chapter on Bukka White and Son House centers on the Parchman prison farm, where both singers served time and where White met the folklorist John Lomax. ''Prisons are not supposed to play a role in the history of music,'' Gioia warns; but in the history of the Delta blues, ''everything is the opposite of what one expects.'' The Muddy Waters chapter is really about the blues' moving north: Waters followed the work force, leaving the Delta around the same time as the first public displays of the cotton-picking machine. The section on Mississippi John Hurt is really about the mechanics of the blues revival of the early '60s, an enlightened orgy of ''rediscovery''; it ties Hurt to the awkward second acts in the careers of Bukka White, Son House and Skip James, and to the waning of the blues as a living tradition. 
 The chapter on John Lee Hooker -- and here Gioia really hits his stride -- deals with Hooker's endless variations on a one-chord groove, but also with the profligacy of his recording career. He could make dozens of records in a single year, some under different names, sometimes lending himself to producers who had no idea what to do with him. There's an embedded narrative here about the way certain blues musicians -- not just Hooker, but Son House and others -- might have taken too much pride in the quantity of their work, and not enough in the quality, as an emotional defense against exploitation. But there's another, too, about the opportunism of both Hooker and his employers. Gioia follows Hooker to the end of his long life with a clear fascination for even some of his lesser achievements, through his '70s recordings with Canned Heat and his Grammy-winning final days. 
 Robert Johnson naturally gets a whole chapter, but faced with a lack of hard biographical facts, Gioia writes an essay about uncertainty and conjecture in blues historiography. What most people have heard about Johnson is the myth that he sold his soul to the Devil at a crossroads; Gioia responds with a nine-page mini-history on the blues and religion, and on the blues and credulousness. (He doesn't believe the crossroads story, of course, but he argues for its significance; this is his rejoinder to Elijah Wald's book ''Escaping the Delta: Robert Johnson and the Invention of the Blues.'') He also recounts the history of the scholars who have tried, and are still trying, to dig up the details of Johnson's life. 
 Gioia does overwrite at times -- not in the moments when he knows something, but when he feels he can't know. ''We may never be able to fully explain Robert Johnson's dark night of the soul,'' he ponders, ''but even less should we try to explain it away, or refuse to admit its hypnotic power.'' (Maybe we should make alternative fuels with it.) Yet tucked into this complex chapter -- as with all the others -- are small analyses of the music, and by contrast they are well handled: neither too wet with wonder nor too dry with data. 
 Much of this material has been covered in other books, though without so much synthesis and circumspection. ''Delta Blues'' is not as contentious as Wald's revisionist ''Escaping the Delta'' or Marybeth Hamilton's ''In Search of the Blues,'' two books that have caused some soul-searching among music critics. (Gioia does take a few guarded stands: in his scene-setting emphasis on the black American work song over the West African griot song, and in his defense of Alan Lomax against recent blues scholars who claimed that Lomax had obscured the contributions of the black researchers he collaborated with in the 1940s.) 
 Instead, Gioia uses original research, interviews with reliable sources and his own calm, argument-closing incantations to draw a line through a century of the Delta blues -- a history that is probably more over than he cares to admit in his book's final pages. He has balanced the story of the music with that of its reception, and where the truth of either one is inaccessible, he says so. He's in favor of the blues retaining some mystery, but only highly informed mystery.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Lee Hooker, circa 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WRITERS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); RADIO FORMATS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Delta Blues (Book)>; Delta Blues (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



389 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Holding Up the Sky

BYLINE: By PATRICK RADDEN KEEFE. 
Patrick Radden Keefe is a fellow at the Century Foundation. His book ''The Snakehead,'' about the Chinese human smuggler Sister Ping, will be published next year.

 BODY:
FACTORY GIRLS
 From Village to City in a Changing China
 By Leslie T. Chang
 420 pp. Spiegel & Grau. $26
 Toward the end of ''Factory Girls,'' her engrossing account of the lives of young migrant workers in southern China, Leslie Chang describes receiving a gift. Min, a young woman who works at a handbag plant, presents Chang with an authentic Coach purse plucked fresh from the assembly line. It emerges that Min's dormitory-style bedroom is stuffed with high-end leatherwear. When the author proposes giving one of the handbags to the mother of Min's boyfriend, Min scoffs. ''His mother lives on a farm,'' she says. ''What's she going to do with a handbag?'' 
 The emergence of China's titanic manufacturing base has been chronicled in numerous books and articles in recent years, but Chang has elected to focus not on the broader market forces at play but on the individuals, most of them women, who leave their villages and seek their fortunes on the front lines of this economy. 
 Since the 1970s, China has witnessed the largest migration in human history, Chang observes, ''three times the number of people who emigrated to America from Europe over a century.'' There are 130 million migrant workers in China today. A few decades ago, a rural peasant could expect to live and die on the same plot of land his family had farmed for generations. But the country's explosive economic growth has allowed the young and adventurous to trade the stifling predictability of village life for the excitement, opportunity and risk of the factory boomtown. 
 A former China correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, Chang focuses on one boomtown in particular, Dongguan, a frenetic jumble of megafactories in Guangdong Province. The city produces garments of every description and 30 percent of the world's computer disk drives. One-third of all the shoes on the planet are produced in the province, and Chang spends time in a factory that manufactures Nike, Reebok and other brands. It has 70,000 employees, most of them women, and boasts its own movie theater, hospital and fire department. 
 Dongguan is ''a perverse expression of China at its most extreme,'' Chang suggests; it is polluted, chaotic and corrupt, but jostling also with a generation of strivers who are unashamed of their ambition and astonishingly indifferent to risk. New arrivals from the countryside can double or triple their income in a couple of weeks by taking a computer class or learning a little English. Switching jobs becomes a form of self-reinvention, and starting a new business is as easy as purchasing a new business card. 
 To Chang, the factory girls seem to live in ''a perpetual present.'' They have forsaken the Confucian bedrock of traditional Chinese culture for an improvised existence in which history and filial loyalty have been replaced by rapid upward mobility, dogged individualism and an obsessive pursuit of a more prosperous future. After revealing that her driver's license was purchased on the black market, one woman seems to voice the general ethos of the town when she says to Chang, of her abilities behind the wheel, ''I know how to drive forward.'' 
 With new job opportunities forever appearing and huge personnel turnover in any given factory, friendships are difficult to make and to maintain, and Chang details the loneliness and isolation of the migrant workers. Dongguan's laborers assemble cellphones, but they purchase them as well, and with their speed-dial archives of acquaintances, the phones become a sort of lifeline, the only way to keep track of the breakneck comings and goings of friends. If a worker's cellphone is stolen, as they often are, friends, boyfriends and mentors may be lost to her forever. ''The easiest thing in the world,'' Chang remarks more than once, ''was to lose touch with someone.'' 
 People living their lives ''on fast-forward'' in this manner would seem to resist any kind of comprehensive portraiture by a reporter. But Chang perseveres, hanging around the factories, purchasing cellphones for some of the women she meets so that she can keep track of them, and eventually renting an apartment in Dongguan. While she relates the stories of numerous different women, she becomes closest with Min, who gave her the purse, and with Chunming, who left her home in Hunan Province in 1992 and has cycled through countless careers and relationships in the years since. (It is Chunming who can only drive forward.) 
 Chang's extraordinary reportorial feat is the intimacy with which she presents the stories of these two women. Min and Chunming lack the reserve of some of their colleagues. They share their diary entries and their text messages, their romantic entanglements and their sometimes strained relationships with the families they left behind. The result is an exceptionally vivid and compassionate depiction of the day-to-day dramas, and the fears and aspirations, of the real people who are powering China's economic boom. 
 BY delving so deeply into the lives of her subjects, Chang succeeds in exploring the degree to which China's factory girls are exploited -- working grueling hours in sometimes poor conditions for meager wages with little job security -- without allowing the book to degenerate into a diatribe. There is never any doubt that the factory owners in Hong Kong and Taiwan -- and the consumers in American shopping malls -- have the better end of the bargain. But for all the dislocation, isolation and vulnerability they experience, Chang makes clear that for the factory girls life in Dongguan is an adventure, and an affirmation of the sort of individualism that village life would never allow. 
 ''If it was an ugly world,'' Chang concludes, ''at least it was their own.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (79%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); APPAREL MFG (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); THEATER (53%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Factory Girls (Book)>; Factory Girls (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



390 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WINEMAKERS A COUPLE'S SECOND ACT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Homegrown Winery With Season's Bounty

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

DATELINE: HIGHLAND MILLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 IT was morning at the eastern foot of Schunnemunk Mountain, and another harvest was beginning at Palaia Vineyards, where two dozen workers snipped clusters of cabernet franc grapes.
 The clusters bounced into gray plastic bins and jiggled. Steam curled from a section of traminette vines, and the sun teetered on a ridge to the east. For a moment it seemed it would roll south. Instead, the sun heaved into the sky and kindled the valley.
 ''This is a great life,'' said Jan L. Palaggi, 50, the vineyard's co-owner and manager. ''You couldn't ask for a better lifestyle. You're outdoors, you're your own boss and it's fun.'' 
 Ms. Palaggi was sitting in a dentist's office in Harriman in 1994 when she read a magazine article that urged readers to think hard about what they wanted to do with their lives. Ms. Palaggi, who made custom window treatments, then planted 18 grapevines in her front yard.
 ''I wanted to see if I could grow grapes,'' she said. 
 After a few years, she and her husband and now co-owner, Joe J. Palaggi, 50, looked for some land. ''We drove past this on the way home to Monroe, and there was this for-sale sign up,'' she said.
 The 10-acre vineyard is situated along the eastern benchlands of Woodbury Creek near the New York State Thruway in Orange County. In 2000, the Palaggis bought the land, which included a house and other buildings on 42 acres, but the field where the vines are now was choked with weeds like dandelions, plantain and Queen Anne's lace. ''It was just a nasty field,'' she said last month.
 Palaia Vineyards is in the Hudson River Region American Viticultural Area, where about 430 acres of grapes produce about 1,000 tons of fruit each year. Soils range from loamy to limestone to clay, all well drained and appropriate for native American, French-American and cold-weather vinifera grapes. The region extends from the Shawangunk Mountains across the Hudson into Dutchess and Westchester Counties. 
 The region has at least 39 open wineries, said Michael J. Migliore, president of the Hudson Valley Wine and Grape Association. Mr. Migliore, who also works with commercial wineries, said that more people had been interested in opening wineries in his region over the last 10 years, partly because they saw opportunities to sell to the affluent New York City markets.
 ''I would say we're probably adding two wineries a year,'' he said. And he said that he didn't think the current economic downturn would have any impact on the number of wineries opening now, and that it was unlikely to affect those expecting to open within the next two years because planning is made so far in advance.
 Like other areas in the New York region, the Hudson Valley has been trying to find ways to lure wine tourists, who usually spend more money on lodging and dining than other tourists do.
 ''We want to bring people to the Hudson Valley for the wine, but there is more to do here as well,'' said Debbie L. Gioquindo, director of Hudson Valley Wine Country, which promotes the region's wine, nature, history and dining.
 At Palaia Vineyards, Ms. Palaggi hoped to crush six tons of fruit before 3 p.m., when she would open the tasting room. Her dog, Penny, a 7-year-old blond sheltie with a brown right eye and a blue left eye, sprinted among the vines while her owner checked on her final harvest of the season.
 A tractor crawled through the 10-foot space between the picked rows. Workers dumped the grapes into a cream-colored bin attached to the loader arm. The bin carried a ton, enough to satisfy a hungry grape-crusher for about five minutes.
 Ms. Palaggi's husband then drove the tractor to the production room beneath the winery and tasting room. The fruit went into a bin in front of the grape crusher, and hoes were used to move the grapes onto a rubber conveyor belt that lifted them to a metal hopper.
 There, an auger nudged the clusters toward an opening that led to a drum with holes the size of silver dollars. As grapes poked through the holes, paddles inside the drum of the grape crusher swatted them from the stems and the stems were spit out a side opening. Meanwhile, two cylinders spinning toward each other gripped the falling grapes and broke the skins, releasing juice.
 The juice, skins and seeds, now called must, drained into a pump and sluiced out of a hose sputtering into a 300-gallon fermenting bin.
 Mr. Palaggi later analyzed the must for its sugar and acid content, determined the nutrients needed for the yeast, added it and closed the top. It would take about a day for the yeast to begin consuming the sugar to produce the main product, alcohol, he said. Nearby, 300 gallons of this year's traminette was fermenting in a steel tank and warmed the metal.
 ''It's science, but it's also art,'' Mr. Palaggi said. ''You're taking this raw material and making something from it that makes people happy.''
 Mr. Palaggi said he learned winemaking partly from his grandfather, Angelo Palaia, who made wine in his basement in Hazleton, Pa., and partly from classes and reading. Mr. Palaia, an 18-year-old shoemaker from Cardinale, Italy, arrived at Ellis Island on July 1, 1912, on the S.S. Moltke, according to family records.
 Somehow, the Palaia name became Palaggi at Ellis Island, the family said. In tribute, the vineyard was named Palaia.
 ''I started out hating this place, but I grew to love it,'' said the Palaggis' son, Joe M. Palaggi, 22, who checked on a vat of crushed grapes. The rocky and clay land, he said, was devoid of nutrients when his parents bought it. ''It's a miracle that we can grow anything out there.''
 Outside, Ms. Palaggi was on schedule to complete her harvest and open the tasting room.
 A small tractor hairpinned around a row about 100 yards away. The driver waved. Penny darted after the tractor and passed beneath a large sycamore that Ms. Palaggi said would bring cheer to the vineyard during the coming cold months, when the sun hangs low in the south.
 ''In the wintertime, when the light comes in the valley, it's like someone put a spotlight on it,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIELDS OF FRUIT: Above, grapes on the vine ready to be picked at Palaia Vineyards. Left, Jan L. Palaggi working with grapes outside the production room at the winery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); WINERIES (89%); HORTICULTURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



391 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2009 FORD ESCAPE XLT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: A Revised Escape Strategy

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
TESTED 2009 Ford Escape XLT
 WHAT IS IT? The ubiquitous four-door compact S.U.V.
 HOW MUCH? $20,825 base, $24,530 for tested XLT with Sync voice-control system ($395) and cargo package ($295). Ford has been offering $2,500 rebates.
 WHAT MAKES IT RUN? 2.5-liter 4-cylinder (171 horsepower, 140 pound-feet) with 6-speed automatic transmission. 
 IS IT THIRSTY? Federal rating is 20 m.p.g. in town, 28 on the highway. Observed mileage: 26.8 m.p.g.
 THE Escape is old. How old, you ask? Well, when this little trucklet was born, in September 2000, Bill Clinton was president and there was no such thing as an iPod. The S.U.V. market was growing 17 percent a year. 
 In the original announcement of the Escape, Ford boasted that it had enough power to tow a speedboat. Now it's bragging about the new soy-based seat foam. How times have changed.
 When a car lasts eight years before a major revision, that probably means it was a pretty solid effort in the first place. Indeed, the Escape is one of those unassuming vehicles that seems to be everywhere. If you count the Escapes in any supermarket parking lot you'll conclude that Ford must have sold a million of the things. In fact, it has -- about 1.27 million in the United States.
 The appeal is understandable. The Escape is a wieldy size, the styling has aged well and there will usually be some excuse for a discount. (If there's not employee pricing or interest-free financing, wait for the Sadie Hawkins Day inventory blowout or National Sandwich Awareness Month.) 
 All those qualities are fundamental to the consistent six-figure sales. Still, after eight years, it was time to update the Escape to compete with the likes of the fresher Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4.
 In 4-cylinder models, the old 2.3-liter 153-horsepower motor gives way to a 2.5-liter 171-horse version that cuts 1.7 seconds off the 0-to-60 acceleration time while getting 1 m.p.g. more.
 In fact, Ford says the 4-cylinder 2009 Escape is as quick as last year's V-6 model, and an imprudent throttle foot can elicit a squeal from the low-rolling-resistance tires. (Note to readers: Peeling out in a 4-cylinder Escape does not impress anyone.) 
 The V-6 goes up to 240 horsepower, an increase of 40. Both engines run on regular fuel. The capless fuel filler is a bit of clever engineering that you appreciate each time you visit the pump. 
 In the name of almighty fuel economy, the hydraulic power steering was replaced by an electric system, which saps less power from the engine. The knock on electric steering is that it typically conveys less road feel than hydraulic systems, but I think Ford properly surmised that few customers were going to complain about a lack of at-the-limit cornering feedback while pointing their Escapes toward Costco.
 The entry-level Escape I tested, with front drive and cloth seats, was less Spartan than I expected. Antilock brakes and an antirollover stability system are standard. Microsoft's Sync system, which lets you control cellphones and MP3 players with voice commands, is a worthwhile $395 option.
 While the basic front-wheel-drive Escape will suffice for most climates (and for those who rarely tow speedboats), I might go for the all-wheel-drive option simply to avoid the front-drive Escape's pathetically empty rear subframe, which is devoid of the differential and driveshafts of its more ruggedly decked-out bretheren. From the back, a front- drive Escape looks like a 4-by-4 that has been vandalized.
 All told, Ford did a nice job updating what is suddenly one of its most relevant products -- a small S.U.V. that gets good mileage and doesn't cost a lot. The Escape may be getting old, but it was ahead of its time. EZRA DYER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



392 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: A Luxury Development Thrives in Denver

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
THREE years ago, when the first residential units went on sale at the Landmark, a mixed-use luxury development on the southern outskirts of Denver, the occasion was noted with a lavish party featuring lobster and Chateaubriand and entertainment by former Cirque du Soleil acrobats. 
 At the time, real estate was booming, and few people imagined that the contortionists and acrobats flying through hoops would become apt metaphors for the obstacles many developers would eventually face as a result of the credit crisis. 
 But Zack Davidson, the president and chief executive of the Everest Development Company, the Landmark's developer, has so far managed to navigate the hurdles that have sidetracked many of his colleagues in the industry in recent months.
 By the time the last performers packed up their tights at that inaugural party, 90 percent of the 135 condominiums in the Landmark tower, the first of two residential towers to be built, had been reserved, at prices ranging from $500,000 to $2 million. About 30 of those contracts have since fallen through, but Mr. Davidson says that most of those units have been resold, at prices 12 percent higher, on average. 
 Residents began moving into the Landmark this summer; a second residential tower, the Meridian, set for completion in December, is 80 percent sold. The retail area -- which features upscale boutiques, a dozen restaurants, a movie theater and a comedy club -- opened in the fall of 2007 and is 80 percent leased.
 Why is this project doing so well while elsewhere others have floundered? 
 Location is important, says Mike Rinner, an executive vice president of the Genesis Group, a real estate research company based in Centennial, Colo. ''It's a deep, deep market,'' he said of Greenwood Village and the neighboring Cherry Hills, two affluent Denver suburbs that the Landmark straddles. ''It would take only a small percentage of that target profile -- affluent baby boomers -- to fill this up.''
 At the same time, there is also pent-up demand for high-end properties in the region, Mr. Rinner and other market experts said. While there are luxury condo developments in downtown Denver -- including a Ritz-Carlton hotel with 25 condos that opened in January -- there aren't many options for empty-nesters looking to downsize in the suburbs, said Rike Palese, a broker at Re/Max Classic Homes, which is handling sales for the Landmark. 
 Dan and Angela Japha, a retired couple in their 50s, agreed. ''There isn't anything like this in the suburban area,'' said Mr. Japha, who worked as a corporate lawyer. Three years ago, the Japhas made a down payment on two penthouses on the top floor of the Landmark tower. They moved into the combined 4,200 square-foot space in August. ''You're not going to have this kind of view anywhere,'' he said. 
 The development, on a high point in Greenwood Village with unobstructed views of Denver and the Rocky Mountains, is also one of a handful of projects in the area to take advantage of proximity to the Denver's new light rail system. ''Being near light rail or public transportation, and having amenities and that 24-hour live, work, play environment is a concept that's growing in popularity, both among young people and baby-boomer retirees,'' said Susan Smith, a director in the real estate advisory services group of PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 It also helped that the Denver market never became as overheated as those of other regions, like Phoenix, Las Vegas and parts of Florida, experts say.
 Mr. Davidson recently broke ground on a second phase in the development: a $260 million European-style village on an adjacent 11.4-acre parcel. The European Village of Homes, as it is called, will contain around 130 brick-and-stone residences, including private brownstones and manor-style homes -- modeled on homes in Florence, Italy -- with prices ranging from less than $1 million to more than $3 million. The homes will be spread out among English gardens and courtyards, cobblestone streets and tree-lined promenades. 
 For Mr. Davidson, 40, it's the details that make the difference. ''Whether the economy is good or bad,'' he says, ''affluent people want that kind of attention.'' 
 The complex, which is meant to mimic a sort of urban village, emphasizes a luxury lifestyle. A concierge staff -- the managers were recruited from Ritz-Carlton hotels -- provides services like dog-walking and party planning. There are three fitness centers, a wellness spa, infinity pools and cabanas, an arts and crafts room with two kilns, and a video-conferencing center on site. 
 A substantial art collection is also on display throughout the residential buildings and grounds. Mr. Davidson has two museum curators on retainer, who have helped him select pieces like Hunan pottery and the two 1888 jardinieres by Antonio Gaudi that will grace the entrance to the European Village. For all these amenities, homeowners pay roughly $5 a square foot in annual fees, which translates to $12,500 for a midsize 2,500-square-foot unit.
 Don H. Ruggles, the president of D. H. Ruggles & Associates, based in Denver, is responsible for the residential architectural designs. Mr. Davidson took him and a six-person design team on a 10-day tour of Europe to study classical architecture. 
 Mr. Davidson's hands-on approach extends to the landscaping. He personally selected more than 2,000 mature trees, including maples, oaks and lindens, some more than 25 feet tall, to be shipped and replanted. He even wrote some of the advertising copy for his marketing fliers. 
 ''I personally stay really involved,'' said Mr. Davidson, who encourages clients to call him on his cellphone if they are not getting what they need. 
 That has given investors a level of comfort in turbulent economic times. ''He does one project at a time, and he lives it and breathes it,'' said Davis Deadman, a partner at Highland Capital Management in Dallas, an investment firm and the largest investor in the Landmark. ''Some developers spread themselves too thin. But Zack, he does what I call bear-hugging.'' 
 In addition to an infusion of capital from Highland Capital Management, Everest lined up a $182 million construction loan from the Hypo Real Estate Bank, based in Munich, for the first phase of the project. Funding for the European Village is coming from a mix of bank lenders, private investors and bonds backed by the City of Greenwood Village. 
 Forty-five of the European Village homes have already been sold, according to Mr. Davidson, including five in the last few weeks, even amid the stock market's turmoil. The five homes sold for $595 to $627 a square foot, he added, some of the highest prices for new condos in the south Denver area.
 Mr. Davidson, who worked in real estate for investment banks before becoming a developer, has worked through difficult times before. In 2000, his previous firm, Eikon Investments, bought One Embarcadero South, an apartment complex that was being built in the South Beach neighborhood of San Francisco, near AT&T Park. He converted it to condos to take advantage of the booming market -- just before the dot-com bust and the 9/11 attacks cratered the market. Still, Eikon managed to sell 57 homes in November and December 2001.
 And while other developers are pulling in their horns these days, Everest is aggressively marketing the Landmark. In the last few years, Mr. Davidson has held 13 parties at the site, at a total cost of around $3 million. ''You've got to be willing to spend the money to promote your brand and what makes it special,'' he said, ''even in times like this.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The developer Zack Davidson, above, says he has had little problem attracting tenants and residents to the Landmark, a mixed-use development outside Denver. The complex includes residential towers, left. A substantial art collection is on display inside the residential buildings as well as throughout the grounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE SCHWABEROW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); SUBURBS (87%); RETAILERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); BABY BOOMERS (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (61%); CREDIT CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (95%) COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



393 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Expressive Hands, Jump-Rope Girls and Rival Stores

 BODY:
Editor's Note Appended
 Hands Point the Way to a Vanished World
 To the Editor:
 ''Hand Signals'' (The City Visible, Oct. 26), featuring Luis Mallo's photographs of passengers' hands on the subway, reminded me of the famous photographer Weegee. 
 You can learn a greaft deal about people from body language, including the way they fold their hands. Photographs speak volumes about history that many have long since forgotten. Larry Penner 
 Great Neck, N.Y.
 Finding the Heroic in Everyday Lives
 To the Editor:
 ''The Jump-Rope Girls 20 Years On'' (Oct. 19), about four women on a block in Brooklyn who were profiled as children in 1988, was by turns uplifting and heartbreaking. 
 The article was deceptively simple on first glance, but richly layered and nuanced below the surface. It made me think about the social ills of our urban neighborhoods, about women's issues and about our broken education system.
 I guess in the end, it's nice to know that those little girls never let anyone else claim their patch of sidewalk. Tricia Clark
 Los Angeles
 To the Editor:
 At a time when everyone is thinking about political and economic challenges, ''The Jump-Rope Girls'' told us of the perseverance of ordinary people.
 Jennifer Morris
 Lincoln, Mass.
 To the Editor:
 All the women in ''The Jump-Rope Girls'' had a tough upbringing and are now fighting it out on their own. They are courageous, and perhaps in another 20 years, they will have achieved most of their goals.
 The family structure described in the article is similar to what I have seen back home in India. The mothers care for their children and the rest of the family. The fathers are generally more hands-off. Maybe my future bodes something similar?
 Balaji Megarajan
 Palisades Park, N.J.
 When the Punishment Doesn't Fit the Crime
 To the Editor:
 I read with exasperation ''Busted in the Park'' (New York Observed, Nov. 2), the account by a cyclist who was given a summons for riding in Central Park after 1 a.m. While the letter of the law was carried out by a zealous police officer, the spirit of the law was bypassed. 
 We want our parks to be safe, day and night. We also urgently need to make choices that support an environmentally sustainable city. To choose walking or biking at any hour of the day, rather than using other means of transportation, leaves a zero carbon footprint. That choice must be supported, not punished.
 All pedestrians and cyclists who wish to cross the park after 1 a.m. are forced onto the least safe routes: the transverses, which are dark, narrow speedways. As the author of the essay made his way out of the park, summons in hand, and onto the 65th Street transverse, he would have cycled past the ''ghost bike'' of a woman we know only as Eve. She was killed there.
 My husband, Dr. Carl H. Nacht, was killed when he collided with a truck while bicycling on a Hudson River bike path near West 38th Street in June 2006.
 Mary Beth Kelly
 Upper West Side
 Already Enough Shops, Thanks Very Much
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Trouble, Two Doors Down'' (Oct. 26), about the opening of an epicurean market on the same block as a grocery in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn:
 I beg to disagree with the resident who was quoted saying she doesn't ''have time to stop in three or four stores to get dinner supplies.'' There is already a unique variety of prepared foods in the three neighborhood shops -- all on the same block -- before this latest unnecessary addition.
 If I'm in the mood for organic-vegetarian or Asian, I have Sue's Fruits and Vegetables, my neighborhood bodega and Korean market. There I can find complete supplies for a fast dinner. If I'm in the mood for fresh pasta with homemade sauces, there's Caputo's across the street. If I want a tasty Milanese chicken cutlet ready to reheat, I have Good Food, the supermarket mentioned in the article.
 The people who run all three shops have personal relationships with their customers. It is impossible to think of abandoning them to a newcomer, but they are getting pushed out by huge rent increases and loss of business to big corporate businesses like Fairway and Trader Joe's. We need to support these traditions before they are lost.
 Melissa Homann
 Carroll Gardens
 Fewer 'No Radio' Signs? Thank Technology, Too
 To the Editor:
 Re the F.Y.I. item on Oct. 19 about the vanishing of signs in cars reading, ''No Radio'': The response neglected to point out that it has become far more difficult in recent years to steal radios (or even to steal cars, for that matter).
 While some crooks will always find ways to stay ahead of the curve, most radios these days are simply not free-standing devices, as they were in the old days. Rather, they are hard-wired into cars' computer systems, which are much more complex. And many become instantly disabled if you remove them, or even shut down the car's electrical system. Hard to fence, except for scrap value. Larry Gage
 Washington
 Readers are invited to submit letters to cityletters@nytimes.com Each letter should include the author's name, address and phone number, though only the author's name and neighborhood will be published. 
 Note to Readers
 Letters are subject to editing for space and clarity. We regret that because of the volume of submissions, we cannot acknowledge letters individually.
 For more information, call (212) 556-7702.
 Editor's Note: November 16, 2008
 A letter to the editor on Nov. 9 by Mary Beth Kelly, who commented on a first-person account by a cyclist who was given a summons for riding in Central Park after 1 a.m., concluded with a mention that her husband, Dr. Carl H. Nacht, was killed while riding a bike in June 2006. Ms. Kelly had briefly noted that fact after her signature when she submitted the letter. During the editing, additional information about her husband's death was inserted into the body of the letter as if Ms. Kelly had written it. The Times should have consulted with Ms. Kelly about the changes before publication.
 Expressive Hands, Jump-Rope Girls and Rival Stores(Nov. 9, 2008) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (88%); CHILDREN (88%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (85%); CITY LIFE (78%); WOMEN (75%); WRITERS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (60%); CYCLING (60%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008



394 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: A Slower Pace in Teardowns

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
NO. 1 Teardown State. That has been New Jersey's ranking from the National Trust for Historic Preservation each year since 2002, when the trust began keeping track of how many older houses in historic neighborhoods were being demolished to make way for new and often bigger houses. In August, the trust cited 85 communities -- from Alpine to Fair Lawn; from Morristown to Wykoff -- where teardowns were heavily concentrated.
But since then, another trend has become a lot more noticeable -- even in New Jersey. The overall economic situation and the sorry state of the housing market mean that fewer and fewer people are ''throwing away perfectly good houses,'' as one preservation-minded architect from Point Pleasant, Verity L. Frizzell, put it. 
 Ms. Frizzell said she had closely observed an instance in nearby Bay Head a few years ago in which a carefully restored Victorian was sold, demolished and replaced. ''That upset a lot of people,'' she said, ''and there was a big push for a moratorium on teardowns there.'' But some residents argued that ''it would be taking away from their property value, and the zoning change was ultimately defeated.''
 ''Now,'' Ms. Frizzell said in a cheerful tone, ''the point is probably moot.'' Since the beginning of the year, she added, she and half a dozen other Monmouth and Ocean County architects whom she informally surveyed by telephone have seen a decline of roughly 15 percent in the inquiries they receive about ''teardown and build'' projects. 
 ''Just six months ago,'' said Stacey Ruhle Kleisch, who is president-elect of the American Institute of Architects' New Jersey chapter, ''it was 'the sky's the limit' with my clientele. Whenever possible, it was, 'Tear it down, and make something new.' '' 
 But that is definitely ''grinding to a halt,'' said Ms. Kleisch, whose firm GK&A Architects is based in Rutherford. ''Now, it's, 'Let's see what choices we can make to save money, immediately, and over the life cycle of a home.' '' 
 ''Whether it is economic issues, tax issues or, in a few cases, stricter zoning restrictions,'' Ms. Kleisch added, ''this is one point where some negative pressures are giving a positive result.''
 James Foerst is a Westfield town councilman who based his first run for office in 2003 on a pledge to slow down the pace of teardowns. He said he believed that tightening local limits on the permitted height and size of new houses three years ago had made some difference.
 Even so, he said, the number of teardowns did not peak in Westfield until last year, when there were around 80. 
 ''This year,'' Mr. Foerst added, ''we still have some. But I'll be surprised if it reaches 30.''
 It is certainly not as if the bulldozers had gone quiet around the state. Last summer, for instance, a frayed but once-grand 1910 colonial on Park Street in Montclair went down abruptly after a developer bought it. The new colonial now under construction -- at 4,200 square feet, slightly smaller than the old house, but outfitted with a full array of modern technological conveniences -- is being marketed by Rhodes, Van Note & Company for $1.85 million.
 Joseph Feltz, who builds homes in the wealthy shoreline towns of Deal and Elberon, says that while the pace of teardowns is off by half in those two communities, he personally has done five projects involving teardowns this year.
 Mr. Feltz says many of his clients are Hasidic Jews who prefer to pay cash, aren't particularly affected by stock market gyrations, and require new, large homes to accommodate family gatherings. ''Everyone wants two things, and I've seen no change in that,'' he said. ''They want a lot as close to the shore as possible, and a big modern house with 5,000 square feet.'' 
 Peter Primavera, a vice chairman of the Urban Land Institute in New Jersey, says that although he perceives a lull in teardown activity, that does not translate into a halt.
 ''When the stock market is up,'' Mr. Primavera said, ''old houses go down. Now, things are bad on Wall Street and fewer houses are being taken down. But the overall dynamic is still in place of people wanting to build new, big McMansions when they have the money to do so.''
 Mr. Primavera pointed out that there tended to be less restriction on teardown activity in poorer urban areas, where the populace and public officials can be overburdened with keeping streets safe and similar issues, and where there is a lack of resources to focus on the loss of older housing stock.
 But he did note the exception of Newark, where the administration if Mayor Cory A. Booker has recently emphasized that preserving and rehabilitating old buildings -- or even just parts of them, like a stone facade -- should be a factor in redevelopment projects.
 Similarly, John Hatch, a partner in the architecture firm of Clarke Caton Hintz, held up the example of rehab work going on now at various factory buildings in downtown Trenton.
 A number of boarded-up factories are being converted into stylish condominiums, under the aegis of federal housing programs that subsidize mortgages for low- and moderate-income buyers. But the process is respectful of their architectural integrity and ''recycles'' the buildings, rather than destroying them, he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNDER CONSTRUCTION: Architects around New Jersey report a drop in inquiries related to demolitions. But there are exceptions, like this house on Park Street in Montclair, going up on the site of a recent teardown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); RANKINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (65%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008



395 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: It's Getting Uglier Nov. 2-8

 BODY:
As voters streamed to the polls, stocks jumped in their strongest Election Day rally in 24 years, with key indexes up more than 3 percent. Behind the News The economy was the driving issue of the election. In exit polls, 6 in 10 voters chose the economy as the most important issue; most of them voted for Barack Obama. Wall Street historically has enjoyed a bounce in the fourth quarter after a presidential election. But some analysts ascribed the rally more to interest rate cuts, a thaw in credit markets and a growing resiliency of the markets to bad news. ''We don't know if it's the end of the bear market yet, but it looks as though the bear has taken a nap,'' said one analyst. 
So much for the Election Day rally. The bear woke up. Stocks erased all of their gains, with key indexes falling more than 5 percent. Behind the News The selling began early, after a report showed that activity at the nation's service industries contracted in October, falling at the fastest pace since records began in 1997. Several major businesses reported disappointing earnings; there were also concerns about rising unemployment. Still, some analysts said that after weeks of extreme volatility, Wall Street appeared finally to be reacting predictably to bad news. Perhaps a return to stability was at hand. ''Markets are moving in a more orderly way,'' said one analyst.
Works by a wide range of artists failed to sell at a Christie's auction in New York, and items that did go fetched disappointing prices. Behind the News The contagion has infected the art world. Collections from the estates of two New York philanthropists were expected to generate at least $104 million in sales; they brought in $47 million. Left behind at the end of the night were works by Manet, Cezanne and Renoir. ''People were frightened,'' said one dealer. The market could sag even more. A report issued earlier in the day predicted that Wall Street bonuses would plummet this year. (''Honey, we may have to sell the Matisse.'' But to whom?)
Retailers reported sales plunged in October, a possible portent of a severe, extended recession. Behind the News The bad news touched discount and luxury stores alike, cast fresh doubt on the survival of some chains and signaled what is likely to be the weakest holiday shopping season in decades. Desperate retailers are responding by extending their hours and offering blowout sales. Even Wal- Mart, the nation's largest retailer and one of the few to see October sales increase, has begun a massive discount program. Will it be enough? ''You walk the mall and consumers look like zombies,'' said one analyst. ''They're there in person, but not in spirit.''
The American economy lost another 240,000 jobs in October, the government said, the 10th consecutive monthly decline.
The unemployment rate rose to 6.5 percent, its highest level since 1994. So far, 1.2 million jobs have been lost this year and 10.1 million people are unemployed, the most since 1983. Still, stocks rose after two days of heavy losses though shares were down 4 percent for the week. Perhaps traders took note of President-elect Barack Obama's first news conference, at which he pledged to confront the economic crisis ''head on.'' He also warned that ''it's not going to be easy to dig ourselves out of the hole that we're in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TUESDAY: ELECTION RALLY (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS)
WEDNESDAY: REVERSAL (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)
WEDNESDAY: ART ANGST (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THURSDAY: RETAIL GLOOM (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC FRANCIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 FRIDAY: SPARE A DIME? (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); AUCTIONS (86%); RETAIL SALES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



396 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: Obama Weighing What to Take On in First Months

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the economy in disarray and the nation's treasury draining, President-elect Barack Obama and his advisers are trying to figure out which of his expansive campaign promises to push in the opening months of his tenure and which to put on a slower track.
 Mr. Obama repeated on Saturday that his first priority would be an economic recovery program to get the nation's business system back on track and people back to work. But advisers said the question was whether they could tackle health care, climate change and energy independence at once or needed to stagger these initiatives over time.
 The debate between a big-bang strategy of pressing aggressively on multiple fronts versus a more pragmatic, step-by-step approach has flavored the discussion among Mr. Obama's transition advisers for months, even before his election. The tension between these strategies has been a recurring theme in the memorandums prepared for him on various issues, advisers said. 
 ''Every president is tempted to take on too much,'' said one Obama adviser, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. ''On the other hand, there's the Roosevelt example and the L.B.J. example, which suggest an extraordinary president can do an awful lot. So that's the question: Is it too risky for the president to be ambitious?''
 Much of the issue may be out of Mr. Obama's hands. The $700 billion financial bailout threatens to push the deficit into the stratosphere. ''The poor man has his hands tied by the economic and financial mess we have right now,'' said John Tuck, a former aide to President Ronald Reagan. ''I don't know what his options are. They're very, very limited.''
 At a news conference Friday and again in a radio address on Saturday, Mr. Obama signaled that he intended to move quickly to address the nation's financial problems, despite any obstacles. ''I want to ensure that we hit the ground running on Jan. 20,'' he said on Saturday, ''because we don't have a moment to lose.''
 The argument for an aggressive approach in the mold of Franklin D. Roosevelt or Lyndon B. Johnson is that health care, energy and education are all part of systemic economic problems and should be addressed comprehensively. But Democrats are discussing a hybrid strategy that would push for a bold economic program and also encompass other elements of Mr. Obama's campaign platform, even if larger goals are put off.
 Congressional leaders want to move swiftly in January to pass a major expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program -- a plan vetoed by President Bush -- as a step toward the broader coverage Mr. Obama promised. Likewise, Democrats plan to incorporate his proposed middle-class tax cuts in the economic legislation or pass them in tandem. And Mr. Obama could increase investment in alternative energy as a down payment on a far-reaching climate plan.
 ''I believe it would be important to show fairly early on that change is here,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, a member of the House Democratic leadership. ''One of the very visible ways to show that would be to pass some of the bills George Bush vetoed.''
 In that same vein, the Obama transition team has identified executive orders he can sign in the first hours and days of his presidency to demonstrate action, even as the more ambitious promises take more time. Among other things, he can reverse a variety of Bush policies, like restrictions on abortion counseling and stem-cell research. 
 Mr. Obama has acknowledged that the economy will force him to recalibrate his program but insists that he has not backed off his commitments. ''We can't afford to wait on moving forward on the key priorities that I identified during the campaign, including clean energy, health care, education and tax relief for middle class families,'' he said Saturday.
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama identified many other priorities, like withdrawing from Iraq; talking with Iran; tackling immigration; closing the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; and renegotiating trade rules with the country's neighbors.
 Mr. Obama's transition advisers studied how past presidents used their first months and concluded that even if various agencies moved forward in many directions, a new chief executive must husband his time, energy and political capital for three dominant priorities at most. Several Obama advisers cited Reagan, who concentrated his early efforts on tax cuts and military spending.
 But advisers also worry that putting off sweeping initiatives makes them harder to pass later, when a president's mandate and momentum have faded. They pointed to Mr. Clinton, who delayed his ultimately doomed health care plan while he passed a deficit reduction package and the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 And the pent-up demand from Democrats who waited out the Bush administration will be enormous. ''In the next three months before they take over, the list of demands on the table is going to be staggering,'' said former Representative Jim Leach of Iowa, a Republican who endorsed Mr. Obama during the campaign. 
 Mr. Obama recognizes that. In an interview on CNN days before the election, he explicitly ranked his priorities, starting with an economic recovery package that would include middle-class tax relief. His second priority, he said, would be energy; third, health care; fourth, tax restructuring; and fifth, education.
 But then he hedged, foreseeing the unforeseen. ''We don't know yet what's going to happen in January,'' he said. ''And none of this can be accomplished if we continue to see a potential meltdown in the banking system or the financial system.''
 Energy and Economy, Intertwined ''I will invest $15 billion a year in renewable sources of energy to create five million new energy jobs over the next decade.'' OCT. 31, DES MOINES
 On energy and climate change, Mr. Obama's focus has shifted markedly over the course of the year as the economy has weakened. 
 An earlier proposal put an economy-wide cap on greenhouse gases, requiring industry and utilities to buy credits from the government to emit carbon dioxide. That plan would produce hundreds of billions of dollars in government revenue and drive up the cost of energy for everyone. 
 Mr. Obama is now emphasizing a program to spend $150 billion over 10 years to develop renewable sources of energy, like wind, solar and biofuels, and to encourage energy conservation in homes, offices and public buildings. He would also provide substantial financial help to the auto industry to develop high-mileage and electric cars. JOHN M. BRODER 
 Beyond 'No Child Left Behind' ''A truly historic commitment to education -- a real commitment -- will require new resources and new reforms.'' MAY 28, MAPLETON, COLO.
 Mr. Obama's education plan outlined some $8 billion for recruiting, performance pay and other initiatives that represent his approach to updating the education law known as No Child Left Behind. But his plan also offered grand proposals for every level of education, including a $4,000 tuition tax credit that would make college more affordable for millions of students and a $10 billion expansion of early childhood programs.
 The challenge will be how to finance all these proposals when budgets are extremely tight, experts said.
 Mr. Obama's $10 billion proposal to expand early childhood education would probably produce tremendous savings to the nation later, but experts said he would find it extremely challenging to finance under current financial conditions. SAM DILLON 
 Reaching the 45 Million Uninsured ''If you don't have health insurance, you'll be able to get the same kind of health insurance that members of Congress get.'' OCT. 31, DES MOINES
 Mr. Obama has said ''every American has a right to affordable health care,'' but he has not said exactly how he would finance coverage for the 45 million people who are uninsured. The economic slump and the bailout for the financial industry may reduce the amounts available to cover the uninsured. 
 On his Web site, Mr. Obama says his health plan ''will lower health care costs by $2,500 for a typical family by investing in health information technology, prevention and care coordination.'' Health policy experts endorse those goals, but say they are unlikely to produce such large savings.
 If Mr. Obama hopes to keep his promise, he will need to mobilize public support for specific legislative proposals. And he will need to co-opt or placate a swarm of lobbyists. ROBERT PEAR 
 Interrogations and Guantanamo ''We're going to lead by setting the highest of standards for civil liberties and civil rights and human rights.'' FEB. 20, DALLAS
 As president, Mr. Obama could simply declare an end to practices that have been widely condemned as torture. He could revoke President Bush's executive order, disclosed in 2007, allowing the Central Intelligence Agency to use more severe interrogation techniques than allowed under the Army Field Manual. 
 To do so, however, he would have to overrule at least some intelligence professionals who have argued that they need more aggressive methods.
 His pledge to close the detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, would require finding a place to imprison dozens of detainees. Federal officials have drafted plans to move them to centers in the United States, but even supporters of that acknowledge the potential consequences, including the release of suspects for lack of evidence. STEVEN LEE MYERS 
 Security and Citizenship ''We cannot deport 12 million people. Instead, we'll require them to pay a fine, learn English and go to the back of the line.'' SEPT. 10, WASHINGTON
 As a senator, Mr. Obama supported comprehensive immigration overhaul, and in the campaign he pledged to enhance border security and provide a path to citizenship for millions in the country illegally. And while he said he favored a guest worker program, he also advocated tougher penalties for employing illegal immigrants. 
 But Mr. Obama's proposals are likely to encounter resistance from opponents who contend that they amount to amnesty -- an argument that helped jettison a bill in Congress. And with the economy shedding jobs, opponents will also argue that immigrants are taking jobs from citizens. But experts say Mr. Obama will face pressure to act from the many Hispanic voters who supported his candidacy in part because of his stance on immigration. MICHAEL FALCONE 
 Tax Breaks, Old and New ''As president, here's what I'll do: cut taxes for every working family making less than $200,000 a year.'' OCT. 29, PAID TELEVISION ADDRESS
 Mr. Obama pledged to extend the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 past 2010, when they would expire, for taxpayers making less than $250,000 a year. He would repeal the cuts for taxpayers making more than that, effective Jan. 1, 2010.
 Mr. Obama considers the extension for those making under $250,000 a continuation of current policy, not a tax cut. 
 But he promises a new break for taxpayers making less than $200,000 -- an annual tax credit of $500 a worker, or $1,000 per working couple. It would be a refundable credit, so those who do not earn enough to pay income taxes but do pay payroll taxes would also benefit. 
 Given the economic crisis and the Democratic gains in Congress, the odds are good that he will push the measures through. JACKIE CALMES
 Withdrawing From Iraq ''Nobody's talking about bringing them home instantly, but one to two brigades a month. It'll take about 16 months to get our combat troops out.'' MAY 16, WATERTOWN, S.D.
 Mr. Obama has said repeatedly that he would set a 16-month timetable for troop withdrawal. Some military experts believe that could lead to a reversal of the gains from the surge in troops over the past 18 months, and they argue that the generals running the war should decide how many troops to pull out and when to do it.
 Mr. Obama appears to have the Iraqi government on his side. Iraqi leaders say his timetable is closer to theirs, which they put at 2010. The Bush administration timetable, which has some wiggle room, is 2011. 
 But all of this supposes relative stability, even while troops are withdrawing. And questions also remain about the kind and level of force Mr. Obama would leave behind. HELENE COOPER 
 Working With Iran ''I would be willing to lead tough and principled diplomacy with the appropriate Iranian leaders at a time and place of my choosing.'' JUNE 4, WASHINGTON
 Mr. Obama initially raised expectations that he would meet with Iran's leaders; he said during the campaign that the notion of not talking to foes was ''ridiculous.'' Since then, he has tempered his words somewhat, indicating that he would send envoys initially and would meet personally with Iranian leaders only if he thought he could advance the American agenda.
 Mr. Obama also faces the issue of when to reach out. If he makes a move before June, when Iran's presidential election is scheduled, he risks giving President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad claim to a foreign policy victory, to the possible detriment of more moderate Iranian presidential aspirants. But if he waits too long, Iran could get closer to acquiring a nuclear weapon. HELENE COOPER 
 Negotiating Nafta ''I think we should use the hammer of a potential opt-out as leverage to ensure that we actually get labor and environmental standards that are enforced.'' FEB. 26, DEMOCRATIC DEBATE
 No legal hurdle would prevent President-elect Obama from pulling out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, a distinction from other trade deals. But trade experts say the political and economic costs of scuttling the deal would be enormous. 
 Even opening it up to renegotiate labor and environmental standards carries risks: Canada might seize the opportunity to renegotiate provisions on energy, while Mexico might push for access for its trucks in the United States.
 Mr. Obama's union supporters have not put changing Nafta at the top of their agenda, focusing instead on issues like China's exchange rate. With little political upside and so much potential downside, this may be one issue Mr. Obama prefers not to touch. MARK LANDLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama at a news conference in September. After nearly two years of campaign promises, Mr. Obama and his advisers face the complex task of setting priorities for his presidency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); BAILOUTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



397 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 8299 words

HEADLINE: After the Imperial Presidency

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER. 
Jonathan Mahler is a contributing writer. His most recent book is ''The Challenge: Hamdan v. Rumsfeld and the Fight Over Presidential Power.''

 BODY:
Ask a long-serving member of the United States Senate -- like, say, Patrick Leahy of Vermont -- to reflect on the Senate's role in our constitutional government, and he will almost invariably tell you a story from our nation's founding that may or may not be apocryphal. It concerns an exchange that supposedly took place between Thomas Jefferson and George Washington in 1787, the year of the constitutional convention in Philadelphia. Jefferson, who had been serving as America's ambassador to France during the convention, asked Washington over breakfast upon his return why he and the other framers created a Senate -- in addition to the previously planned House of Representatives and presidency -- in his absence.
 ''Why did you pour that coffee into your saucer?'' Washington reportedly replied.
 ''To cool it,'' Jefferson answered. 
 ''Even so,'' Washington said, ''we pour our legislation into the senatorial saucer to cool it.''
 The United States Senate has been called the world's greatest deliberative body. By serving six-year terms -- as opposed to the two-year terms in the more populist and considerably larger House of Representatives -- senators are supposed to be able to stand above the ideological fray and engage in thoughtful and serious debate. What's more, the filibuster rule allows a single senator to halt the creep of political passions into the decision-making process by blocking a given vote.
 Perhaps nowhere is the ethos of the Senate, this commitment to principle over politics, more memorably captured than in the classic 1939 film ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,'' when Jimmy Stewart, who plays an idealistic freshman senator wrongfully accused of graft, refuses to yield the floor until he has cleared his name. (After almost 24 hours, he winds up passing out from exhaustion but is ultimately exonerated.)
 ''We're supposed to be the conscience of the nation,'' Senator Leahy told me recently in his Washington office, which is decorated with New England folk art, including a print of a dog and cat cuddling on a throw rug that looks as if it could be on loan from a bed-and-breakfast in his home state. 
 Leahy is one of Congress's so-called Watergate babies. He was elected to the Senate following Nixon's resignation in 1974, and his arrival on Capitol Hill coincided with the sweeping bipartisan effort to investigate the Nixon administration's abuses of executive power. ''There was a sense inside the Senate among both Republicans and Democrats that the government had gotten off course and that we had a responsibility to find out what happened,'' Leahy recalled.
 Weeks after the 34-year-old Leahy was sworn into the Senate, his Democratic colleague from Idaho, Frank Church, began his legendary probe into domestic spying during the cold war. Church's bipartisan Senate committee interviewed more than 800 officials and held 21 public hearings, uncovering widespread abuses by the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. ''I had just come from eight years as a federal prosecutor,'' Leahy told me, ''so I knew a little something about convening grand juries and issuing subpoenas. But this was on a scale magnified a thousand times anything I had ever seen.'' 
 If Leahy speaks about that era with a certain nostalgia, it's because he recognizes that the power of the Senate, which blossomed during his early years in Congress, has now withered. The story of the United States is in many ways the story of the push and pull between the executive and legislative branches. Consider just the last half-century or so. In the late 1940s, Congress moved aggressively to recoup some of the power it had lost to Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who took full advantage of his presidential prerogative during a 12-year tenure that spanned both the Depression and World War II. (Among other things, Congress passed the 22nd Amendment, which limited future presidents to two terms in office.) President Harry Truman and other cold warriors pushed back; the '50s and '60s were dominated by the high-stakes diplomacy and covert overseas operations of the Soviet Union-United States conflict, shifting the balance of power back to the executive -- until the aforementioned Nixon reaction. Yet much of the authority that Congress recaptured during the post-Watergate and post-Vietnam administrations of Carter and Ford it gave back when Ronald Reagan assumed the presidency and flexed his presidential muscle to push through an ambitious agenda that included massive tax cuts and an escalation of America's global struggle against Communism. 
 During Bill Clinton's tenure, what was shaping up as a strong presidency was brought to heel by an independent counsel and impeachment hearings. By the time Clinton finished his second term, it looked to many experts as if the White House would be working with diminished authority for years to come: the presidential historian Michael Beschloss called George W. Bush ''the first truly postimperial president.''
 As it turned out, the power of the president soared to new heights under Bush. Many of the administration's most aggressive moves came in the realm of national security and the war on terror in particular. The Bush administration claimed the authority to deny captured combatants -- U.S. citizens and aliens alike -- such basic due-process rights as access to a lawyer. It created a detention facility on Guantanamo Bay that it declared was outside the jurisdiction of the federal courts and built a new legal system -- without any input from Congress -- to try enemy combatants. And it argued that the president's commander-in-chief powers gave him the authority to violate America's laws and treaties, including the Geneva Conventions. 
 The assertion and expansion of presidential power is arguably the defining feature of the Bush years. Come January, the current administration will pass on to its successor a vast infrastructure for electronic surveillance, secret sites for detention and interrogation and a sheaf of legal opinions empowering the executive to do whatever he feels necessary to protect the country. The new administration will also be the beneficiary of Congress's recent history of complacency, which amounts to a tacit acceptance of the Bush administration's expansive views of executive authority. For that matter, thanks to the recent economic bailout, Bush's successor will inherit control over much of the banking industry. ''The next president will enter office as the most powerful president who has ever sat in the White House,'' Jack Balkin, a constitutional law professor at Yale and an influential legal blogger, told me a few weeks ago.
 And yet the issue of executive authority scarcely reared its head in the presidential campaign. It wasn't addressed directly in any of the debates, and aside from a Boston Globe questionnaire on executive authority given to all of the primary candidates in December of last year, neither Obama nor McCain had much to say on the stump or in interviews about the power of the office he aspired to occupy.
 ''Ambition must be made to counteract ambition,'' James Madison wrote, meaning that America's divided system of government would depend on both the president and Congress forcefully pursuing their respective roles -- and in so doing, acting as a natural check on each other. Why did that fail to happen during the Bush years, and will a new president and newly elected Congress act to undo the excesses of presidential power over the past eight years?
 Senator Lindsey Graham, the baby-faced South Carolina Republican who first stepped onto the national stage as a House manager of Clinton's impeachment trial, has not been an easy figure to pin down in the struggle over presidential power. At times, he was one of the Bush administration's most reliable allies in the Senate, notably when it came to the executive branch's assertion that it could block enemy combatants from challenging their detentions in federal court. In the fall of 2005, days after the Supreme Court agreed to hear a Guantanamo detainee's lawsuit against President Bush, Graham came to the administration's rescue with a bill devised to kick the case off the court's docket and to make all pending and future detainee challenges illegal. (The bill passed, but the justices nevertheless refused to dismiss the case, Hamdan v. Rumsfeld.)
 But Graham, a former Air Force lawyer, was also one of a handful of Republican senators who resisted the executive branch's claim that the president could authorize coercive interrogations of detainees. He memorably accused Alberto Gonzales, then the nominee for attorney general, of ''playing cute with the law'' in order to justify that claim and was a member of the triumvirate of so-called Republican mavericks -- along with Senators John McCain and John Warner -- who drafted a bill aimed at preventing the torture of enemy combatants.
 ''The Bush administration came up with a pretty aggressive, bordering on bizarre, theory of inherent authority that had no boundaries,'' Graham told me one day last summer in his Senate office. ''As they saw it, the other two branches of government were basically neutered in the time of war.''
 As has now been widely noted, the chief architect of the Bush administration's expansive view of executive power was Vice President Dick Cheney, whose interest in pumping up the presidency dates to the mid-1970s, when, as President Ford's chief of staff, he had a front-row seat for Congress's post-Watergate crusade against the executive branch. Ten years later, as a member of the House of Representatives, Cheney dissented from the majority of his colleagues in the Iran-contra affair, arguing that President Reagan possessed the power to provide arms to the contras -- even though Congress had expressly prohibited him from doing so. 
 Yet even absent a Cheney, it's very likely that any president, Republican or Democrat, would have accrued more authority in the aftermath of 9/11. The president needs the flexibility to move quickly and forcefully to protect the country during wartime, even if this entails concealing information from the public and encroaching on civil liberties. ''It is of the nature of war,'' Alexander Hamilton wrote, ''to increase the executive at the expense of the legislative authority.''And Hamilton was speaking about conventional warfare -- not the war on terror with all its novel challenges.
 In a sense, it's hard to fault Congress for the historic surrender of its authority during the Bush years. Like the Iran-contras arms deals, many of the actions that the administration undertook after 9/11 -- like the rendition of suspected terrorists to ''ghost prisons'' in foreign countries and the warrantless wiretapping of American citizens -- were kept secret, even from lawmakers, which made oversight impossible. The administration also did everything it could to block unwanted disclosures about its policies, routinely invoking the formerly obscure ''state-secrets privilege'' to avoid revealing details of its treatment of enemy combatants.
 When the administration did choose to pass on information to Congress, it did so selectively, not always reliably, and with a very clear political goal in mind. In ''Angler: The Cheney Vice Presidency,'' Barton Gellman, a reporter at The Washington Post, wrote that when Cheney was lining up support for the invasion of Iraq, he met with Representative Dick Armey, the Republican majority leader. Behind closed doors, he told Armey, who had been skeptical, that Saddam Hussein had made ''substantial progress'' toward building a miniature nuclear weapon. Armey duly voted for the invasion.
 Still, Congress was hardly unaware of what was going on. Many of the most aggressive positions that the Bush administration staked out after 9/11 -- from the creation of Guantanamo to what amounted to the suspension of America's Geneva Conventions obligations governing the treatment of captured combatants -- were a matter of public record. Not only did Congress not flinch at such unilateral actions, but it also helped enable the expansion of presidential authority by passing the USA Patriot Act, which gavethe executive sweeping new law-enforcement powers.
 It wasn't until the fall of 2005, a year and a half after the detainee-abuse scandal at Abu Ghraib became public, that Congress passed a piece of legislation intended to limit, rather than expand, the president's wartime authority -- the torture bill. I asked Graham why he and his fellow senators waited so long to try to reclaim their place in the constitutional order. ''The Congress was intimidated after 9/11,'' he answered. ''People were afraid to get in the way of a strong executive who was talking about suppressing a vicious enemy, and we were AWOL for a while, and I'll take the blame for that. We should have been more aggressive after 9/11 in working with the executive to find a collaboration, and I think the fact that we weren't probably hurt the country. I wish I had spoken out sooner and louder.''
 Graham's explanation -- that the 9/11 attacks threw Congress off its game -- tells only part of the story. Congress, like the White House, was in Republican hands from 2003 to 2006; it's impossible to ignore the role politics played in the institution's passivity. 
 Single-party rule in Washington has not always translated into a timid Congress. In 1941, Harry Truman, then a largely unknown Democratic senator from Missouri, drove his Dodge across the country to expose profiteering by private military contractors under F.D.R., who was supplying weaponry to the Allied powers. During the Carter administration, the Democratic Congress aggressively investigated among other things the shady financial dealings of the president's brother, Billy.
 The Senate is a different place now, though. Consider this telling bit of institutional history, as related by Robert Caro in his continuing biography of Lyndon Johnson. When Johnson was elevated to the vice presidency in 1961, he suggested to Senator Mike Mansfield, his successor as Senate majority leader, that he be permitted to continue presiding over the Democratic caucus. Mansfield initially agreed -- but the rest of the caucus revolted. The vice president might be the ceremonial president of the Senate, they argued, but to empower him to attend their caucuses, let alone run them, would create a dangerous precedent.
 By contrast, in recent years, you could set your watch by the arrival of Vice President Cheney's motorcade on Capitol Hill for the Republican caucus's weekly strategy sessions. He was at times known to bring Karl Rove with him as well. ''You can imagine the amount of dissent that goes on with the two of them sitting there,'' Leahy told me.
 As Leahy sees it, these weekly trips to Capitol Hill were part of the administration's strategy to marginalize Congress by encouraging Republican senators to put party loyalty ahead of institutional loyalty. He draws a sharp contrast between Cheney and vice presidents like George H.W. Bush and Walter Mondale, who made an effort to get to know members of both parties and ensure that their voices were heard inside the Oval Office. ''I think in a way this administration set out to make the Republican Party on the Hill an arm of the White House,'' Leahy told me. 
 But the politicization of the Senate didn't begin with Bush. Norman Ornstein, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, traces the roots of the trend to the Congressional elections of 1994, when the Republicans took back the House after 40 years in the minority. Led by Newt Gingrich, a new group of fire-breathing freshman lawmakers arrived on Capitol Hill with an ambitious, highly partisan agenda. Finally in the majority, the House Republicans gleefully wielded their newfound subpoena power to harass the Democratic president, Bill Clinton, by, for example, taking dozens of hours of testimony on whether he abused the White House Christmas-card list for the purposes of fund-raising.
 According to Ornstein, the Senate, and in particular its leader through 1996, Bob Dole, was at first skeptical of Gingrich and his ideological minions in the House. But Dole's successor, Trent Lott, was more partisan and thus more willing to engage in the politicization of Senate actions like the confirmation of Clinton's judicial appointments.
 It was the Clinton impeachment trial in 1999, though, that finally pushed the Senate into the trenches of political warfare and polarized the institution once and for all. Senators now saw themselves as members of their respective political parties first -- and representatives of their constituencies second. After George W. Bush's election in 2000, many Republicans on Capitol Hill saw it as their duty to protect him from their Democratic colleagues. ''The Republican leaders in both houses of Congress made the decision that they were going to be field soldiers in the president's army, rather than members of an independent branch of government,'' Ornstein says. 
 Next year, the Senate will lose one of its most beloved and respected figures, the 81-year-old Virginian John Warner, who decided not to seek re-election to a sixth term. The son of a World War I field surgeon, Warner served in both the Navy and the Marines and then did a tour as President Nixon's secretary of the Navy before joining the Senate in 1979. He has been on the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee for decades and has served as its chairman on three occasions.
 Scanning the framed photographs in Warner's office in the Senate's Russell Building -- on horseback with Ronald Reagan; in the Persian Gulf with John Glenn; conferring, pipe in mouth, with Barry Goldwater -- you can't help feeling that an era is passing with his retirement. A tall, courtly and dapper man with a thick mane of white hair, Warner is the model of the senator as elder statesman, a man who isn't swayed by the mercurial moods of the nation or the ideological passions of his party. Over the years, this has produced some memorable acts of apostasy. In the 1994 Virginia Senate election, for instance, Warner refused to support the conservative hero Oliver North in his run against the incumbent Democrat, Senator Charles Robb. 
 Warner's Senate career began improbably, after Virginia's Republican nominee, Richard Obenshain, died in a plane crash weeks before the general election. When he got the phone call inquiring if he'd be willing to run for Senate, Warner and his wife at the time, Elizabeth Taylor, were getting ready to leave for Ireland, where Taylor was to serve as grand marshal at the Dublin Horse Show. ''There were about 10 big bags of her luggage sitting in the front hall,'' Warner told me recently. Instead, he stayed behind and kicked off his Senate campaign -- ''Liz Taylor's Next Role: Senator's Wife?'' asked a headline on the cover of The Saturday Evening Post -- and wound up winning.
 The popular perception of Warner when he first arrived on Capitol Hill in 1979 was hardly generous: a Doonesbury cartoon portrayed him as a ''dim dilettante who managed to buy, marry and luck his way into the Senate.'' But Warner soon established himself as a shrewd politician and a powerful defender of the importance of the Senate's role in our constitutional government, a role that he now worries the Senate is in the process of ceding. ''The tripod has got to stand on these three legs,'' he told me, referring to America's three coequal branches of government, ''and if one leg gets weak, the tripod begins to not supply the support this country needs. I see this institution getting weak.''
 I met with Warner on a Friday in late September, the day after Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson first announced that the government was working on a massive financial bailout plan. Warner was annoyed that the executive branch hadn't given the Senate a heads-up about its intentions. ''Until about 8 o'clock last night I didn't know a damn thing about what these guys were doing,'' he told me. ''I had to pull over to the side of the road so I wouldn't have an accident listening to the secretary of the Treasury's press conference on the radio.'' What bothered him even more, though, was the fact that the Russell building was largely deserted: ''Where is everybody? We've got a major crisis facing America.''
 The central problem, as Warner sees it, is the soaring cost of Senate elections. By political necessity, senators spend as much time as possible back in their home states building up their treasuries for their next race. To accommodate this need, most Senate votes are scheduled between Tuesday and Thursday. ''When I came here, the Senate would work Mondays through Fridays,'' Warner recalls. ''Old Bob Byrd was the majority leader, and if he was not happy, you stayed here all weekend, without a lot of notice.'' 
 The fact that many senators have to spend so much time away from Capitol Hill means less time for Senate work. It has also eroded the fabric of the institution. It's now common for senators to leave their families back home and basically commute to Washington. ''In my days here the Senate was kind of a family,'' Warner recalls. ''It was a lot easier to cross the aisle because you just had dinner the night before with the senator and his wife or your kids were in school together. Now the relationships between senators just don't develop.'' 
 Even the most independent-minded senators are still members of a political party. When that party also happens to be in control of the White House, senators often find themselves trying to balance their party loyalty with their duty to keep a close eye on the executive branch. This can be especially tricky for those in leadership positions, as Warner was during his last term as chairman of the Armed Services Committee from 2003 to 2006.
 As a veteran of the Senate, Warner was hardly a stranger to dealing with presidential administrations eager to impose their will on Congress. But he was nevertheless surprised by Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's highhanded approach to the Legislature. ''Warner was bewildered by Rumsfeld's way of doing his business, his attitude that the Senate should just confirm his people, validate his programs and shut up,'' one former senior staff member of the Armed Services Committee told me. (The senator himself declined to discuss the specifics of his relationship with the former defense secretary.) 
 Still, apart from the occasional sternly worded letter, Warner tried assiduously to prevent his relationship with Rumsfeld from becoming openly hostile. When the defense secretary publicly snubbed one of Warner's longtime staff members, Les Brownlee, leaving him as acting Army secretary for months on end, another one of Brownlee's Senate mentors, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Ted Stevens, directed his staff to find one of Rumsfeld's pet Pentagon projects so that he could withhold financing for it. (Rumsfeld still refused to relent.)
 Warner, too, had a powerful lever to use against the defense secretary: the Armed Services Committee has to confirm all high-level appointments to the Pentagon. Warner could have held up any number of Rumsfeld's nominees, yet he declined to do so. ''Look, I've got to work with this guy,'' the senator would say, according to the former staff member, whenever one of his aides urged him to move more aggressively against Rumsfeld. 
 Warner was also a captive of his own background. As a former secretary of the Navy, Warner had a powerful reverence for the institution of the defense secretary and the Pentagon in general. This, combined with his loyalty to the Republican Party, made him at times deferential. When Warner requested a full committee briefing with a press conference to follow on the activities of the Lincoln Group, a public-relations firm under contract with the United States military that was paying to have stories placed in Iraqi newspapers, Rumsfeld instead asked him to come to the Pentagon for a private briefing to prevent one of the committee's Democrats, Edward Kennedy, from exploiting the issue. Warner acceded.
 When Warner was determined to challenge the Republican administration, he had to contend with his right flank inside the Senate. After the Abu Ghraib scandal broke in April 2004, Warner was taken aback to learn that the Pentagon had known about the detainee abuse for months but had never so much as informally briefed him on it. Many of Warner's Republican colleagues urged him to let the administration deal with the scandal on its own, but Warner insisted on convening public hearings and summoned Rumsfeld to testify as the first witness. He even ordered that Rumsfeld be sworn in, a breach of common practice that infuriated the defense secretary.
 To Warner, if anything cried out for aggressive Congressional oversight -- not simply a hearing room filled with news cameras but an independent bipartisan probe -- Abu Ghraib was it. But opening a special investigation would have required the approval of the majority of the Senate. In the days of Iran-contra, this was not a problem; the creation of the special Senate subcommittee that investigated the illegal transfer of arms to the contras passed overwhelmingly. Warner knew he wouldn't be able to get enough support from his fellow Republicans for a similar probe into Abu Ghraib. So he instead resigned himself to conducting oversight on the Pentagon's own internal investigations into the scandal.
 Yet even this was too much oversight for many of Warner's fellow Republicans. As the hearings moved forward, several conservative senators turned up the heat on Warner, both publicly and privately. Ted Stevens, a longtime friend and colleague, angrily confronted Warner one afternoon in the Senate cloakroom. ''No more hearings,'' he said. ''Their attitude was that these hearings were just going to provide propaganda for the insurgents and be politically embarrassing for the Republican president during an election year,'' says the former Armed Services staff member. 
 Things reached a head in late May 2004, when a handful of Republican senators on the Armed Services Committee came to Warner's office with an ultimatum: if he continued with the hearings, they warned, they were no longer going to be able to support his chairmanship. To underscore their seriousness, they presented him with a letter signed by all of the committee's Republicans save for Senators McCain, Graham and Susan Collins of Maine. It was unprecedented for a group of junior senators to take such a confrontational posture toward a senior figure like Warner, effectively threatening to strip him of his chairmanship; Warner was convinced they had been put up to it by Rumsfeld himself.
 Warner refused to stop the hearings, but the focus of his inquiries subtly shifted. He was less confrontational and more concerned with trying to prevent future abuses than with assigning blame for those that had already occurred. He and his colleagues eventually passed the torture bill, which was devised to address what they considered to be the root cause of Abu Ghraib -- the murky interrogation standards promulgated by the administration. But Warner never urged the president to fire or even censure the official ultimately responsible for those standards, the secretary of defense.
 Warner told me that Rumsfeld's successor, Robert Gates, has been much more cooperative with Congress. Nevertheless, he says that today's Senate is still no match for an executive branch that works 24 hours a day, seven days a week -- and for a president who, from the day he is sworn into office, has a vested interest in increasing his authority at the expense of Congress. ''Every president, as he leaves the Capitol steps and gets into his limo proceeding to the inaugural, is calculating, How soon can I put that place behind me?'' Warner says. 
 You need not look any further than Senator John McCain's efforts to give Congress a voice in the treatment of detainees to grasp the difficulty that the legislative branch faces trying to push back against a determined president.
 McCain first got involved in the torture fight in early 2005, when it was by no means a popular cause, particularly inside his own party. ''At a time when there was not a single person in the United States who had any influence who was willing to take this issue on, he took it on,'' says the executive director of Human Rights First, Elisa Massimino, who worked with McCain on the torture bill.
 The White House did everything it could to stop McCain, Warner and Graham from going forward with their torture bill. Bush repeatedly threatened to veto the legislation, and Cheney met behind closed doors with the three senators on three separate occasions to persuade them that limiting the president's power to authorize coercive interrogations would hurt the war against terror.
 McCain dug in his heels, though. When Stephen Hadley, the president's national security adviser, called Warner to urge the senators to at least soften the language of the legislation, a Warner aide alerted a McCain staff member. In a matter of minutes, McCain was bounding down the hall toward Warner's office. He emerged triumphantly a few minutes later, joking to Warner's staff, ''I had to go in there and waterboard him.''
 After months of work, the senators succeeded in getting the torture bill passed with a vetoproof majority, 90-9. But the president subsequently undid all of their efforts with a stroke of the pen. The language of the bill required that all military interrogations be conducted according to the United States Army Field Manual, which defines what methods can and can't be used and outlaws ''cruel, inhumane or degrading'' treatment of prisoners. When Bush signed the bill into law at the end of 2005, he issued a presidential signing statement asserting the right, as commander in chief, to determine what constitutes ''cruel, inhumane or degrading'' treatment. For good measure, he reserved the power to violate the torture bill itself if he thought it necessary for the purposes of national security.
 McCain's experience with the Military Commissions Act, another bill governing the treatment and trial of detainees, followed a similar arc. Once again, he took the lead in drafting the legislation. Once again, the White House leaned on him. And once again, the president had the last word.
 The stickiest issue was how to deal with the Geneva Conventions. The Supreme Court ruled in June 2006 in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld that the Geneva Conventions were applicable to America's conflict with Al Qaeda. But the White House argued that the treaty's prohibition against ''outrages upon personal dignity'' was too sweeping, placing too many restrictions on the C.I.A.'s methods of interrogation. The president wanted Congress to define, narrowly, what would constitute such outrages. 
 To an extent, McCain, Warner and Graham were legislating in the dark. They were trying to place limits on how far interrogators could go, but to do that, they needed to know what techniques had been used in the past and with how much success, and the White House wouldn't tell them.
 In late September 2006, after a weekend-long negotiating session, the two parties reached a compromise. The bill came under fire from many Democrats but passed. For their part, the three senators were happy with the deal they struck. They had made a lot of sacrifices but had stood their ground on the all-important question of the Geneva Conventions. The bill did not restate America's obligations under the international treaty. Rather, it put the onus on the administration to issue an executive order listing the interrogation techniques it considered legal under the existing language of the Geneva Conventions. This, the senators believed, would force the administration's hand by requiring it to publish its interrogation techniques while also allowing Congress to hold the administration accountable going forward.
 Nine months after signing the bill into law, the president issued his executive order. Not only did it fail to address specific interrogation techniques, but it also created more wiggle room for C.I.A. interrogators by barring only ''willful and outrageous acts of personal abuse done for the purpose of humiliating or degrading the individual.'' (In other words, outrageous acts of personal abuse done for the purpose of gathering intelligence were permissible.) No sooner had the order been issued than the C.I.A. revived its program of coercive interrogations, which had been dormant since the Supreme Court's ruling that all detainees must be treated in accordance with the Geneva Conventions.
 ''It was frustrating,'' one of McCain's aides told me. ''We were expecting the administration to lay things out there in a good-faith way.'' Still, the three senators did not publicly press the president to rescind the order.
 In as much as McCain spoke to the issue of presidential power during the campaign, his attitude appeared to shift. In the Boston Globe's 2007 questionnaire, he articulated a less expansive view of the White House's authority than Bush. McCain said he would never issue a signing statement if elected president and that he didn't believe the president had the authority to violate any laws. He also said that he would ''do his utmost to accommodate Congressional requests for information.'' 
 Yet as the campaign progressed, McCain seemed to tack toward a more robust view of the president's authority. Last spring, he voted against a bill that would have restricted the C.I.A.'s interrogation techniques -- explicitly outlawing waterboarding, among other things -- and in so doing siphon power away from the president. And in June, one of his top aides wrote in National Review magazine that the senator believed that Bush's warrantless-wiretapping program, which bypassed the special court established by Congress in 1978, was both constitutional and appropriate. 
 Senator Arlen Specterplays squash almost every day, usually before dawn in the basement of the Federal Reserve building, one of the few remaining courts in Washington designed for hardball, the largely outdated form of the game that he prefers. He keeps a record of the scores of all of his matches against a rotating group of opponents, including a 27-year-old staff member whom the senator has been known to call at 5:30 a.m. with directions to get dressed and meet him on the court in half an hour. Even now, at the age of 78 and having recently survived Hodgkin's disease, Specter is enormously competitive. During a recent match, when he suspected that I might be easing up a bit, he barked at me to play harder.
 After our match, over breakfast in the Senate dining room, I asked Specter, who was chairman of the Judiciary Committee from 2005 to January 2007, how he thought Congress had fared vis-a-vis the executive branch during the Bush administration. ''Decades from now,'' he answered, ''historians will look back on the period from 9/11 to the present as an era of unbridled executive power and Congressional ineffectiveness.''
 Having risen to the Senate from the courtrooms of Philadelphia, Specter is a stickler for process. Even now, he becomes visibly angry when he recalls reading in the newspaper that the National Security Agency was illegally wiretapping United States citizens. ''I was madder than hell,'' he told me. ''It was a flat violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and it violated the well-established custom of briefing the chairman and ranking member of the Judiciary Committee on matters like this.''
 When I asked Specter whether he thought he had done everything he could to prevent the executive branch from expanding its authority, he became a little indignant: ''I fought it every step of the way -- I'm still fighting it.''
 There is truth to this, though the story is more complicated. During the Bush years, Specter did write numerous pieces of legislation intended to bolster Congress's role in the war on terror. In February 2002, he introduced a bill that would have established a system of trials for suspected Al Qaeda detainees. It never made it out of the Senate Armed Services Committee, leaving the administration to devise the trial system itself. In 2006, Specter proposed the Presidential Signing Statements Act, which would have empowered Congress to file suit to have a signing statement declared illegal by a federal court. This, too, never went anywhere.
 As Specter sees it, the very same rules that are intended to ensure thoughtful deliberation inside the Senate put it at a disadvantage with respect to the White House. ''The executive branch requires the decision of one person, as opposed to the legislative branch, which requires 10 votes just to get my bill out of committee,'' he says.
 But Specter also missed his share of opportunities to stand up for Congress in the battle over the president's wartime powers. When Attorney General Alberto Gonzales testified before the Judiciary Committee in early 2006 about the illegal wiretapping, Specter didn't require that he be sworn in, nor did he ask for any of the Justice Department's internal legal memorandums on the secret surveillance program. What's more, Specter's own legislative response to the warrantless-wiretapping scandal, which he proposed in 2006, was widely seen as a capitulation to the White House.
 Like Warner, Specter was no doubt torn between his obligations to the Senate and his duties to the Republican Party. And Specter's hold on the chairmanship of the Judiciary Committee, a job he had coveted since being elected, was more precarious than Warner's. Because of Specter's support for Roe v. Wade, the Republican leadership had agreed to give him the job only if he agreed not to block the president's judicial nominees. He was basically on probation from the moment he took over the chairmanship.
 Specter's most noteworthy concession to the executive branch came when he voted for the Military Commissions Act of 2006. Despite McCain's and Warner's enthusiasm for the bill, Specter strenuously opposed it because it empowered the White House to strip detainees of their ability to challenge their imprisonments in federal court. He argued that the Constitution permitted the president to suspend this particular right -- the right to habeas corpus -- only in times of rebellion or invasion. Specter drafted an amendment to the act to preserve the habeas rights of detainees and delivered an impassioned speech on the Senate floor in defense of habeas corpus, tracing its roots back to Magna Carta of 1215. After his amendment was narrowly defeated, he vowed to vote against the legislation. Yet when the Military Commissions Act came up for a vote less than 24 hours later, Specter supported it.
 One former Judiciary Committee staff member told me that his change of heart was animated partly by his loyalty to Rick Santorum, the conservative Republican who held Pennsylvania's other Senate seat at the time. To the displeasure of the right wing of the party, Santorum helped rescue Specter during a tough primary fight against a more conservative opponent in 2004. At the time of the Military Commissions Act vote in the fall of 2006, Santorum was engaged in a difficult re-election battle of his own. Fearing that Specter's opposition to the bill would hurt his own cause among conservatives -- who still blamed Santorum for Specter's re-election -- Santorum made a personal plea to Specter to vote for it.
 Specter told me that he was anguished over the Military Commissions Act vote. ''I've voted about 9,000 to 10,000 times in the Senate, and that was the most agonizing vote I've ever had,'' he said. ''Bork and Thomas were nothing compared to that one,'' he added, referring to the confirmation battles of the two Supreme Court nominees, ''and Bork and Thomas were toughies.''
 Specter said he would not have voted for the bill if he hadn't thought that the Supreme Court would strike down the section that dealt with habeas corpus. His instincts there were correct. Last June, the Supreme Court concluded in Boumediene v. Bush that the Military Commissions Act did indeed represent an unconstitutional suspension of habeas corpus.
 In the long history of the court before Bush, it ruled against a sitting president only a handful of times during a period of armed conflict; the Boumediene decision represented the fourth time that the court rebuked President Bush in the war on terror. Perhaps nothing better sums up both the ambitions of the administration and the passivity of Congress, which left its duty to oversee the prosecution of the war largely in the hands of a judiciary that has historically been loath to interfere with the president's war-making power. 
 Several weeks ago, I met with Warner's Democratic successor as Armed Services chairman, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan. A rumpled-looking man with gold-rimmed glasses and a gray comb-over, Levin pulled a document out of a beat-up briefcase to illustrate, as he put it, ''what happens when you have a majority of Congress protecting the president.''
 Levin explained that in early 2003, before the war in Iraq began, he asked George Tenet, the director of the C.I.A., at a public hearing if the C.I.A. had given the United Nations its list of so-called high-level suspect sites where United States intelligence officers thought it most likely that inspectors would find weapons of mass destruction. Tenet answered yes. Levin told Tenet he thought he was wrong.
 In a private setting later that day, Levin brought up the subject again. ''I said: 'George, I'll tell you, I've looked at your report, and there is a significant number of sites that haven't been shared. This is a pretty important issue in terms of whether or not we should be going into Iraq.' '' Tenet agreed to double-check. Soon after, at another public hearing, Levin again asked Tenet about the high-level suspect sites. Tenet said that he had double-checked and that the C.I.A. had indeed shared its complete list with the U.N.
 Levin told me he urged the Armed Services Committee, then in Republican hands, to press the issue, but he didn't get anywhere, and as a member of the minority party, he lacked the power to convene hearings or issue subpoenas. Levin then showed me the document, a Senate Intelligence Committee report dated almost two years later, pointing at one of the few lines that wasn't redacted: ''Public pronouncements by administration officials that the Central Intelligence Agency had shared information on all high- and moderate-priority suspect sites with United Nations inspectors were factually incorrect.''
 To Levin's way of thinking, the Democrats have made great strides toward restoring the balance of power since retaking Congress in 2006. There's no question that they have engaged in more vigorous oversight. Levin has been behind one of the Senate's most significant probes, investigating how tactics from the C.I.A.'s SERE (Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape) program, which was established to train American troops in surviving capture and resisting torture by enemies who don't abide by the Geneva Conventions, were adopted by United States military interrogators in the war on terror. 
 Not all of the Democratic Congress's oversight efforts have been as successful, though. A number of administration officials have invoked executive privilege rather than answer questions at hearings; others have simply refused to show up altogether, often ignoring subpoenas in the process. While hardly pleased, the Democrats have yet to issue a single contempt-of-Congress citation.
 Nor has the Democratic Congress made much use of the rest of its tools against the executive branch. Take, for instance, the Senate's power to confirm appointments. When President Bush nominated Michael Mukasey to serve as attorney general in the fall of 2007, the Senate could have easily insisted on any number of conditions before confirming him, even something as simple as a public statement that the president is bound by the laws passed by Congress. There was a clear precedent for such deal making. In 1973, the Senate refused to confirm President Nixon's attorney general nominee, Elliot Richardson, until Richardson agreed to name a special prosecutor to investigate Watergate. The Senate even insisted that it be allowed to sign off on the name of the special prosecutor before moving ahead with Richardson's confirmation. The Senate made no such preconditions with respect to Mukasey. In fact, he was confirmed even after stating during his confirmation hearing that the administration's secret surveillance program was not illegal because the president has the right to ignore statutory law if he thinks it's necessary to defend the country.
 When I asked Levin what needs to happen for Congress to take back the rest of the ground that it ceded to the executive branch during the Bush years, he replied predictably, ''We need a Democrat in the White House.''
 For those concerned about the expansion of presidential power, Barack Obama's answers to the Boston Globe's 2007 questionnaire were encouraging. Among other things, he said the president can't conduct surveillance without warrants or detain United States citizens indefinitely as unlawful enemy combatants. He also said that it's illegal for the president to ignore international treaties like the Geneva Conventions and that if Congress prohibits a specific interrogation technique by law, the president cannot employ it. ''The president is not above the law,'' Obama said. 
 It would be a mistake, though, to view presidential power as a left-right issue. Historically, Democratic presidents have been no less eager than their Republican counterparts to leverage the authority of their office. Recall that the last Democrat to occupy the White House, Bill Clinton, launched airstrikes on Kosovo in a war against Yugoslavia without Congressional authorization and liberally invoked executive privilege during the various investigations into his private life and financial dealings.
 History has shown that where you stand on executive authority is largely a matter of where you sit. Before his election, Abraham Lincoln criticized President James Polk for provoking the Mexican War; as president, Lincoln unilaterally suspended habeas corpus and ordered a blockade of the ports of rebel states. As a senator, Richard Nixon -- of all people -- criticized President Truman's frequent invocations of executive privilege.
 Bruce Fein, a Justice Department lawyer in the Reagan administration who is now a critic of presidential power, told me a few weeks ago that he expects the next president to ''take everything Bush has given him and wield it with even greater confidence because Congress has given him a safe harbor to do so with impunity.'' This may be overstating the point, but it's worth keeping in mind that in the final year of Bush's presidency -- while facing a Democratic Congress and historically low approval ratings -- he was able to push through a federal bailout bill that vested almost complete control over the economy in the Treasury secretary (who reports to the president), not to mention a major rewriting of the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that will make it easier for the White House to spy on American citizens.
 At the president's urging, the new FISA bill, which Obama and McCain supported, also went a step further, granting immunity to telecom companies that cooperated with the government's secret surveillance program. As a result, we will probably never know how many people were spied on, what criteria were used to select them and what was done with the information gleaned from the wiretaps. 
 These are just a few of the many unanswered questions raised by the White House's policies in the war on terror. Presumably, as more detainee lawsuits make their way through the federal courts, we will learn additional details about the mistreatment of enemy combatants, particularly because the new administration's lawyers won't have the same incentive to suppress such information. But there has been no talk of the newly elected Congress undertaking a sweeping investigation of the Bush administration's activities along the lines of the Church Committee.
 During my conversations with the senators, I sometimes had the impression that their irritation with the White House's arrogance toward Congress had overshadowed their concerns about the administration's policies themselves. I wondered if along the way they had lost sight of their duty to represent the interests of their constituents. 
 For all of the legislature's complaints about being excluded from the political process during the Bush years, it seems fair to question whether Congress really wants to be a full partner in America's government. Senators may not like being kept in the dark, but they seem to prefer to leave the big decisions -- especially those concerning national security -- to the executive. ''There's a psychology of vassalage to the president,'' Fein says. ''They don't want to be out there on a limb.''
 Given these diminished ambitions, even if the legislative branch does reassert itself in the next administration, what exactly will that mean? Will Congress simply insist on being asked for its blessing before empowering the president to do whatever he sees fit? And if so, what will it take for what the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. identified as democracy's greatest virtue -- ''its capacity for self-correction'' -- to kick in and restore the constitutional balance? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS DEMAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MM42, MM43, MM46, MM47, MM48) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); FILIBUSTER (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (50%)

COMPANY: ACCURIDE CORP (91%)

TICKER: ACW (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%)

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (78%); RICHARD NIXON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



398 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: After Push for Obama, Unions Seek New Rules

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After making millions of phone calls and knocking on millions of doors to elect Barack Obama, the nation's labor unions have begun a new campaign: to get the new president and Congress to pass legislation that would make it easier for workers to unionize.
 Unions, delighted that they will have a friend in the White House after eight years of fighting President Bush, also plan to push for universal health coverage and a huge stimulus program to create jobs and counter the downturn.
 ''Our major priority in the short and long term,'' said Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, ''is to get the economy working for Americans who work.''
 But corporate America has already declared war on labor's push for new legislation that would help unions organize. 
 ''This will be Armageddon,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 Labor's No. 1 priority is a piece of legislation called the Employee Free Choice Act, also known as the card-check bill. The bill would give workers the right to join a union as soon as a majority of employees at a workplace signed cards saying they wanted one. Business groups have attacked the legislation because it would take away employers' right to insist on holding a secret-ballot election to determine whether workers favored unionization. 
 With union membership sliding to 7.5 percent of the private-sector work force, one-third the rate in 1983, unions see enactment of the bill as the single most important step toward reversing their loss of membership and power. Some labor leaders predict that if the bill is passed, unions, which have 16 million members nationwide, would add at least five million workers to their rolls over the next few years.
 ''We really need fundamental change to counterbalance corporate power and reverse the decline of the middle class,'' said John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, ''and that's why we support the Employee Free Choice Act.''
 Mr. Sweeney said labor unions were eager for a stimulus program to jump-start the economy and to help those hurt by the downturn. He called for extending unemployment benefits, increasing financing for food stamps, approving a rescue plan for Detroit's automakers and immediately spending more on rebuilding roads, bridges and schools. 
 Thomas J. Donohue, the chamber's president, criticized the card-check bill as ''payback'' that labor unions were expecting in return for their campaign efforts. 
 Bill Samuel, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of government affairs, disagreed, noting that President-elect Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. had co-sponsored the act as senators.
 ''This is not about payback,'' Mr. Samuel said. ''We're looking to work with the new administration on a shared set of priorities that focus on lifting workers and improving the economy.'' 
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win, the rival labor federation, campaigned all out for Mr. Obama, with labor leaders saying that unions and their political action committees spent nearly $450 million during the race. 
 Mr. Sweeney said that in the last four days of the campaign, 250,000 volunteers from A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions made 5.5 million phone calls and visited 3.9 million union households. All told, he said, unions reached out to more than 13 million voters in 24 states, with some undecided union members being contacted more than 30 times through phone calls, household visits and workplace conversations.
 Union leaders say they were pivotal in helping Mr. Obama win several battleground states, including Florida, Indiana, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. According to a voter poll by Peter D. Hart Research Associates, 67 percent of members of A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions voted for Mr. Obama, a Democrat, and 30 percent for his Republican rival, Senator John McCain.
 One of labor's main goals was to help the Democrats capture 60 Senate seats, with an eye to overcoming a Republican filibuster against the card-check bill, which the House approved last year. In the Senate, there were 51 votes for the bill, but it failed because supporters could not overcome a Republican filibuster.
 Democrats gained at least six Senate seats on Tuesday, giving their caucus at least 57 seats, but they are likely to fall short of 60. (In three races, the winner has not yet been determined.)
 Even without 60 seats, many labor leaders want to press ahead with the Employee Free Choice Act. The service employees union has pledged to mobilize tens of thousands of members to urge Mr. Obama and Congress to enact that bill and universal health coverage in the 100 days after Inauguration Day, Jan. 20.
 ''I don't think that just because we have 40 Republican senators or some higher number means we can't get EFCA passed,'' said Tom Woodruff, director of strategic organizing for Change to Win, a federation of seven unions that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''There are a number of Republicans who, in order to save our economy, can be brought around to supporting the act.''
 One Republican senator, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, has co-sponsored the bill. 
 While the Chamber of Commerce seems ready to cooperate with organized labor to back an economic stimulus package, Mr. Donohue, the chamber's president, said it would be unwise for Mr. Obama to embrace the Employee Free Choice Act when the economy was in such bad shape. He said the bill -- along with other labor-backed bills that would raise business costs, including one that would guarantee most workers seven paid sick days a year -- would hurt companies when many were struggling.
 ''The president has one barrel of challenges,'' Mr. Donohue said, ''and he should read the doctor's oath to make sure in the first 100 days he does no harm.''
 Chamber officials voiced confidence that they have the backing in the Senate to block the bill, a move that might cause business and labor to negotiate a version with compromises. Among the compromises floated would be keeping the secret ballot vote, but holding the vote just a few days after the union requests an election. Other ideas are to give union organizers access to workplace sites and to limit employers' ability to campaign against the union. 
 But Mr. Stern of the service employees said today's hard times for workers increased the urgency to enact the bill, without compromises. ''We have to solve the problems of sliding wages and increased inequality, and you can't compromise on solving those problems,'' he said.
 Businesses oppose another provision in the bill: if a newly recognized union and an employer fail to agree on a contract within 120 days, there would be binding arbitration to determine what should be in the contract.
 ''The card-check provisions and the arbitration provisions are a nonstarter with the employer community,'' said Mr. Johnson of the chamber. ''The idea that government arbitrators can set every term is ludicrous and unacceptable.''
 Union officials say they do not dislike the secret ballot, but rather the lengthy, expensive, adversarial campaign before the vote in which companies often fire union supporters and use videos, large meetings and one-on-one sessions to pressure employees to vote against unionizing.
 ''Their focus is maintaining their right to wage an aggressive campaign against the union,'' said Mr. Samuel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''That's what we're trying to protect workers from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Volunteers with the service employees union cheered after being acknowledged by Barack Obama at a Cleveland rally on Feb. 23. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



399 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: The Climate for Change

BYLINE: By AL GORE. 
Al Gore, the vice president from 1993 to 2001, was the co-recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007. He founded the Alliance for Climate Protection and, as a businessman, invests in alternative energy companies.

 BODY:
THE inspiring and transformative choice by the American people to elect Barack Obama as our 44th president lays the foundation for another fateful choice that he -- and we -- must make this January to begin an emergency rescue of human civilization from the imminent and rapidly growing threat posed by the climate crisis.
 The electrifying redemption of America's revolutionary declaration that all human beings are born equal sets the stage for the renewal of United States leadership in a world that desperately needs to protect its primary endowment: the integrity and livability of the planet.
 The world authority on the climate crisis, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, after 20 years of detailed study and four unanimous reports, now says that the evidence is ''unequivocal.'' To those who are still tempted to dismiss the increasingly urgent alarms from scientists around the world, ignore the melting of the north polar ice cap and all of the other apocalyptic warnings from the planet itself, and who roll their eyes at the very mention of this existential threat to the future of the human species, please wake up. Our children and grandchildren need you to hear and recognize the truth of our situation, before it is too late. 
 Here is the good news: the bold steps that are needed to solve the climate crisis are exactly the same steps that ought to be taken in order to solve the economic crisis and the energy security crisis. 
 Economists across the spectrum -- including Martin Feldstein and Lawrence Summers -- agree that large and rapid investments in a jobs-intensive infrastructure initiative is the best way to revive our economy in a quick and sustainable way. Many also agree that our economy will fall behind if we continue spending hundreds of billions of dollars on foreign oil every year. Moreover, national security experts in both parties agree that we face a dangerous strategic vulnerability if the world suddenly loses access to Middle Eastern oil. 
 As Abraham Lincoln said during America's darkest hour, ''The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew, and act anew.'' In our present case, thinking anew requires discarding an outdated and fatally flawed definition of the problem we face.
 Thirty-five years ago this past week, President Richard Nixon created Project Independence, which set a national goal that, within seven years, the United States would develop ''the potential to meet our own energy needs without depending on any foreign energy sources.'' His statement came three weeks after the Arab oil embargo had sent prices skyrocketing and woke America to the dangers of dependence on foreign oil. And -- not coincidentally -- it came only three years after United States domestic oil production had peaked.
 At the time, the United States imported less than a third of its oil from foreign countries. Yet today, after all six of the presidents succeeding Nixon repeated some version of his goal, our dependence has doubled from one-third to nearly two-thirds -- and many feel that global oil production is at or near its peak.
 Some still see this as a problem of domestic production. If we could only increase oil and coal production at home, they argue, then we wouldn't have to rely on imports from the Middle East. Some have come up with even dirtier and more expensive new ways to extract the same old fuels, like coal liquids, oil shale, tar sands and ''clean coal'' technology. 
 But in every case, the resources in question are much too expensive or polluting, or, in the case of ''clean coal,'' too imaginary to make a difference in protecting either our national security or the global climate. Indeed, those who spend hundreds of millions promoting ''clean coal'' technology consistently omit the fact that there is little investment and not a single large-scale demonstration project in the United States for capturing and safely burying all of this pollution. If the coal industry can make good on this promise, then I'm all for it. But until that day comes, we simply cannot any longer base the strategy for human survival on a cynical and self-interested illusion.
 Here's what we can do -- now: we can make an immediate and large strategic investment to put people to work replacing 19th-century energy technologies that depend on dangerous and expensive carbon-based fuels with 21st-century technologies that use fuel that is free forever: the sun, the wind and the natural heat of the earth. 
 What follows is a five-part plan to repower America with a commitment to producing 100 percent of our electricity from carbon-free sources within 10 years. It is a plan that would simultaneously move us toward solutions to the climate crisis and the economic crisis -- and create millions of new jobs that cannot be outsourced. 
 First, the new president and the new Congress should offer large-scale investment in incentives for the construction of concentrated solar thermal plants in the Southwestern deserts, wind farms in the corridor stretching from Texas to the Dakotas and advanced plants in geothermal hot spots that could produce large amounts of electricity.
 Second, we should begin the planning and construction of a unified national smart grid for the transport of renewable electricity from the rural places where it is mostly generated to the cities where it is mostly used. New high-voltage, low-loss underground lines can be designed with ''smart'' features that provide consumers with sophisticated information and easy-to-use tools for conserving electricity, eliminating inefficiency and reducing their energy bills. The cost of this modern grid -- $400 billion over 10 years -- pales in comparison with the annual loss to American business of $120 billion due to the cascading failures that are endemic to our current balkanized and antiquated electricity lines.
 Third, we should help America's automobile industry (not only the Big Three but the innovative new startup companies as well) to convert quickly to plug-in hybrids that can run on the renewable electricity that will be available as the rest of this plan matures. In combination with the unified grid, a nationwide fleet of plug-in hybrids would also help to solve the problem of electricity storage. Think about it: with this sort of grid, cars could be charged during off-peak energy-use hours; during peak hours, when fewer cars are on the road, they could contribute their electricity back into the national grid. 
 Fourth, we should embark on a nationwide effort to retrofit buildings with better insulation and energy-efficient windows and lighting. Approximately 40 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States come from buildings -- and stopping that pollution saves money for homeowners and businesses. This initiative should be coupled with the proposal in Congress to help Americans who are burdened by mortgages that exceed the value of their homes. 
 Fifth, the United States should lead the way by putting a price on carbon here at home, and by leading the world's efforts to replace the Kyoto treaty next year in Copenhagen with a more effective treaty that caps global carbon dioxide emissions and encourages nations to invest together in efficient ways to reduce global warming pollution quickly, including by sharply reducing deforestation. 
 Of course, the best way-- indeed the only way -- to secure a global agreement to safeguard our future is by re-establishing the United States as the country with the moral and political authority to lead the world toward a solution. 
 Looking ahead, I have great hope that we will have the courage to embrace the changes necessary to save our economy, our planet and ultimately ourselves. 
 In an earlier transformative era in American history, President John F. Kennedy challenged our nation to land a man on the moon within 10 years. Eight years and two months later, Neil Armstrong set foot on the lunar surface. The average age of the systems engineers cheering on Apollo 11 from the Houston control room that day was 26, which means that their average age when President Kennedy announced the challenge was 18. 
 This year similarly saw the rise of young Americans, whose enthusiasm electrified Barack Obama's campaign. There is little doubt that this same group of energized youth will play an essential role in this project to secure our national future, once again turning seemingly impossible goals into inspiring success. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (62%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008



400 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Lame Ducks and Recession Politics

 BODY:
The job numbers for October, released by the government on Friday, leave no doubt that the nation is in a recession that will be deep and painful. As President-elect Barack Obama said on Friday, Congress cannot wait for a new administration to take action.
 Lawmakers, no matter how lame-duck they may be, have a duty to pass an extension of unemployment benefits and other measures that directly address surging joblessness and shrinking incomes. Mr. Obama was right to endorse this approach, but as he noted, there is already a sitting president. If President Bush and his team care at all about their legacy at this point, they should support a real stimulus plan, or at the very least get out of the way and not block or distort it. 
 In addition to unemployment pay, the most effective forms of stimulus are bolstered food stamps and federal aid to states and cities so that they can continue to provide health care and other services. Of late, however, the administration has insisted that its bank bailout and inadequate anti-foreclosure plans are the solution to rising joblessness. If Mr. Bush sticks to that script, it will be difficult to enact a stimulus bill that is targeted and timely. 
 Failure to do so, however, would be derelict. After 10 straight months of job losses, the ranks of the unemployed swelled to 10.1 million in October, for a jobless rate of 6.5 percent, the highest since 1994. Worse, the rate would be 11.8 percent if it included Americans who are working part time because they cannot find full-time work and jobless workers who have given up looking for work because their prospects are so dim. Worse still, well over one in five jobless Americans -- some 2.3 million people -- have been out of work for six months or more, a level of long-term joblessness not seen in the early stages of any recession since World War II. 
 That is not the only way this recession is atypical. Mortgage defaults often rise in a downturn because losing a job makes it impossible for some borrowers to keep up. But this time around, unemployment-related defaults will come on top of millions that have already occurred -- and are to come -- because of spiking payments on adjustable-rate loans and falling home prices. Rising unemployment, combined with the fallout from junk lending, will prolong the financial crisis and the recession. 
 The Bush administration has rightly thrown money at the financial crisis, and it must now throw more money at the economic downturn. But it must be smart money. Unemployment benefits, food stamps and federal aid to states and cities yield the biggest return for every dollar spent. They are also easy to pare when the economy recovers, thus posing little long-run danger to the federal budget. Tax rebates and other tax cuts, in contrast, pack relatively little bang for the buck. And tax cuts are difficult to take away once granted and so tend to add to the long-term deficit. 
 A package of unemployment benefits and state aid is also easier to build upon in sensible ways. As they extend jobless benefits, lawmakers can also revamp the unemployment insurance system, along the lines of the modernization bill passed last year by the House. Fully paid for by reauthorizing an uncontroversial employer surtax, the bill would enable states to provide unemployment benefits to workers who are often ineligible, like part-timers. Similarly, aid to states could be expanded to include money for roads, bridges and other large projects, creating jobs and, at the same time, upgrading the neglected infrastructure of the nation. 
 It is not the content of a stimulus bill that is difficult, it is the politics. For President Bush and Congress, this is one final chance to act on principle for a nation they have so often neglected and disappointed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); RECESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BANK FAILURES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); HOME PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

 
