

201 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: UConn's Rivalry: Auriemma Versus Calhoun

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It will not stink to be Geno Auriemma this weekend, unless his Connecticut women's basketball team is ambushed again in the national semifinals by Stanford on Sunday night. Or worse, should it lose the title game to Oklahoma or Louisville, teams it has wiped the hardwood with this undefeated season.
 But Auriemma has Maya Moore, the premier player, and Renee Montgomery, the best women's point guard since Sue Bird. If form holds in St. Louis, the Huskies will win Auriemma's sixth national championship, in a year when his favorite foil, Tennessee's Pat Summitt, did not survive the first round. 
Meanwhile, Jim Calhoun, Auriemma's unfriendly rival and in-house coaching contemporary, has been dogged by reports of recruiting violations all the way into his national men's semifinal loss to Michigan State on Saturday. 
 Auriemma is gloating about none of this, at least not publicly. Recently turned 55, he says he has softened with age, but the ego at his level of success seldom contracts. Besides, why should he forgive old grudges? Summitt won't even schedule a regular-season game against Auriemma anymore. 
 As for Calhoun, he once mocked the women's team's fan base as the world's largest nursing home. Does he seem like a man with whom coexistence as campus kingpin could ever be a treat?
 About Calhoun, Auriemma long ago said: ''Do we get along? No, but we don't have to.'' After UConn's men's and women's teams won their last national titles on consecutive nights in 2004, there were reports of reconciliation between the coaches, who are both members of the Basketball Hall of Fame. Auriemma also defended Calhoun after Calhoun was pressed to defend his $1.6 million, state-financed salary during a painful recession at a February news conference. 
 Why wouldn't he? Auriemma has a similar deal. Asked more recently about the relationship, the best Auriemma could offer was: ''With the excitement, the attention, things that are written, all that gets magnified. For the past 15 years, we've managed to work that out.''
 Auriemma versus Calhoun has been among the rarest of intercollegiate role reversals, a men's program deservedly held to a standard established by women. Granted, this isn't exactly a fair fight, given the operational differences.
 The women's game may be deeper than ever, but the Huskies have beaten Oklahoma by 28 points and Louisville in the Big East tournament by 39. Whether that is more of a commentary on UConn than an indictment of the sport will depend on what happens in St. Louis.
 Calhoun, who has won the men's tournament twice, competes in a Big East Conference in which there were as many national title contenders this season as there were for the women in the whole country.
 There is also the matter of student-athlete realities, behavioral and academic. His trespasses aside, Calhoun can always play defense against his critics by arguing that his recruiting net is cast across a more perilous socioeconomic minefield than Auriemma's. He must invariably stand aside or give talented underclassmen his blessing when they leave early for the N.B.A.
 But the pro money doesn't fully explain Calhoun's longtime sickly graduation rates. The latest six-year numbers provided by the Institute for Diversity and Ethics at the University of Central Florida are, as usual, startlingly lopsided. UConn produces men's basketball players with degrees at a rate of 33 percent, actually a slight uptick; the women weigh in at 100 percent.
 No one is naive enough to believe the women's game hasn't created its own recruiting rat race, but the worst thing Auriemma's program has been publicly accused of -- and admitted to -- was providing Moore a tour of the ESPN studios during a visit. 
 Auriemma, like Summitt, can expect a fair number of the most desirable high school players to recruit him as much as he recruits them. By virtue of his success and status, he is reminiscent of John Wooden, with an acerbic wit and a Philadelphia smirk.
 He gets all the rewards without Calhoun's risks, including respect across coaching lines. On his Final Four conference call, Auriemma just happened to drop the name of Mike Fratello when the subject of good Italian restaurants in the St. Louis Hill district came up. In a telephone interview, Fratello confirmed the friendship, which he traced to their induction to the National Italian-American Sports Hall of Fame in Chicago.
 ''I've followed his career over the years, initially because of the Italian brotherhood,'' Fratello said. ''We've worked Michael Jordan's fantasy camp together during the summer. We stay in touch, talk the game, about things you can run for Maya Moore, stuff we used to run for Dominique Wilkins in Atlanta, Bernard King in New York.''
 Auriemma would succeed in the men's game, too, according to Fratello. ''He stands for all the right things -- team defense, sharing the basketball, shot selection,'' he said. 
 It is difficult to imagine Auriemma going anywhere. He has the best of coaching worlds. He can graduate players and win championships and even go unbeaten. Yes, in many ways, it is better to be Geno than Jim -- though Auriemma will reserve judgment on that for a few more days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); SPORTS FANS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (77%); MICHIGAN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



202 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In America, Labor Has An Unusually Long Fuse

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The workers and other protesters who gathered en masse at the Group of 20 summit meeting last week in London were continuing a time-honored European tradition of taking their grievances into the streets.
 Two weeks earlier, more than a million workers in France demonstrated against layoffs and the government's handling of the economic crisis, and in the last month alone, French workers took their bosses hostage four times in various labor disputes. When General Motors recently announced huge job cuts worldwide, 15,000 workers demonstrated at the company's German headquarters.
 But in the United States, where G.M. plans its biggest layoffs, union members have seemed passive in comparison. They may yell at the television news, but that's about all. Unlike their European counterparts, American workers have largely stayed off the streets, even as unemployment soars and companies cut wages and benefits.
 The country of Mother Jones, John L. Lewis and Walter Reuther certainly has had a rich and sometimes militant history of labor protest -- from the Homestead Steel Works strike against Andrew Carnegie in 1892 to the auto workers' sit-down strikes of the 1930s and the 67-day walkout by 400,000 G.M. workers in 1970. 
 But in recent decades, American workers have increasingly steered clear of such militancy, for reasons that range from fear of having their jobs shipped overseas to their self-image as full-fledged members of the middle class, with all its trappings and aspirations.
 David Kennedy, a Stanford historian and author of ''Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945,'' says that America's individualist streak is a major reason for this reluctance to take to the streets. Citing a 1940 study by the social psychologist Mirra Komarovsky, he said her interviews of the Depression-era unemployed found ''the psychological reaction was to feel guilty and ashamed, that they had failed personally.''
 Taken together, guilt, shame and individualism undercut any impulse to collective action, then as now, Professor Kennedy said. Noting that Americans felt stunned and desperately insecure during the Depression's early years, he wrote: ''What struck most observers, and mystified them, was the eerie docility of the American people, their stoic passivity as the Depression grindstone rolled over them.''
 By the mid-1930s, though, worker protests increased in number and militancy. They were fueled by the then-powerful Communist and Socialist Parties and frustrations over continuing deprivation. Workers also felt that they had President Roosevelt's blessing for collective action because he signed the Wagner Act in 1935, giving workers the right to unionize. 
 ''Remember, at that time, you had Hoovervilles and 25 percent unemployment,'' said Daniel Bell, a professor emeritus of sociology at Harvard. ''Many people felt that capitalism was finished.''
 General strikes paralyzed San Francisco and Minneapolis, and a six-week sit-down strike at a G.M. plant in Flint, Mich., pressured the company into recognizing the United Automobile Workers. In the decade's ugliest showdown, a 1937 strike against Republic Steel in Chicago, 10 protesters were shot to death. That militancy helped build a powerful labor movement, which represented 35 percent of the nation's workers by the 1950s and helped create the world's largest and richest middle class.
 Today, American workers, even those earning $20,000 a year, tend to view themselves as part of an upwardly mobile middle class. In contrast, European workers often still see themselves as proletarians in an enduring class struggle. 
 And American labor leaders, once up-from-the-street rabble-rousers, now often work hand-in-hand with C.E.O.'s to improve corporate competitiveness to protect jobs and pensions, and try to sideline activists who support a hard line. 
 ''You have a general diminution of union leadership that was focused on defending workers by any means necessary,'' said Jerry Tucker, a longtime U.A.W. militant. ''The message from the union leadership nowadays often is, 'We don't have any choice, we have to go down this concessionary road to see if we can do damage control,' '' he said. 
 In the case of the Detroit automakers, a strike might not only hasten their demise but infuriate many Americans who already view auto workers as overpaid. It might also make Washington less receptive to a bailout.
 Labor's aggressiveness has also been sapped by its declining numbers. Unions represent just 7.4 percent of private-sector workers today. 
 Unions have also grown more cautious as management has become more aggressive. A watershed came in 1981 when the nation's air traffic controllers engaged in an illegal strike. President Reagan quickly fired the 11,500 striking traffic controllers, hired replacements and soon got the airports running. After that confrontation, labor's willingness to strike shrank markedly.
 American workers still occasionally vent their anger in protests and strikes. There were demonstrations against the A.I.G. bonuses, for instance, and workers staged a sit-down strike in December when their factory in Chicago was closed. But the numbers tell the story: Last year, American unions engaged in 159 work stoppages, down from 1,352 in 1981, according to the Bureau of National Affairs, a publisher of legal and regulatory news. 
 Michael Kazin, a historian at Georgetown University, said that while demonstrations remain a vital outlet for the European left, for Americans ''the Internet now somehow serves as the main outlet'' with angry blogs and mass e-mailing.
 Left-leaning workers and unions that might be most prone to stage protests during today's economic crisis are often the ones most enthusiastic about President Obama and his efforts to revive the economy, help unions and enact universal health coverage. Instead of taking to the streets last fall to protest the gathering economic crisis under President Bush, many workers and unions campaigned for Mr. Obama.
 Leo Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers, said there were smarter things to do than demonstrating against layoffs -- for instance, pushing Congress and the states to make sure the stimulus plan creates the maximum number of jobs in the United States.
 ''I actually believe that Americans believe in their political system more than workers do in other parts of the world,'' Mr. Gerard said. He said large labor demonstrations are often warranted in Canada and European countries to pressure parliamentary leaders. Demonstrations are less needed in the United States, he said, because often all that is needed is some expert lobbying in Washington to line up the support of a half-dozen senators. 
 Professor Kennedy saw another reason that today's young workers and young people were protesting less than in decades past. ''This generation,'' he said, has '' found more effective ways to change the world. It's signed up for political campaigns, and it's not waiting for things to get so desperate that they feel forced to take to the streets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEN: French workers in Marseille protest the government's economic policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLAUME HORCAJUELO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 US: The scene at a Flint, Mich., factory during a strike against G.M. in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HISTORY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); WRITERS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JOHN P JONES III (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



203 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Home Is Where You Hang Your Debt

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP celebrated its 40th birthday with a boisterous party in its gleaming, four-story Chelsea home on 19th Street. Performances erupted in the stairwell, the terrace, even the revolving door. The place pulsed with a beyond-capacity crowd. The year was 2005, and the message was clear: Full steam ahead. 
 Fast-forward to the present, and the steam has run out. The deficit mushroomed after the workshop opened its new space, in an 11-story mixed-use building that it helped finance through a successful capital campaign, in 2002. That deficit largely accounts for the organization's $4.2 million debt. It must raise more than $400,000 by June 30, the end of its fiscal year, simply to pay its expenses. 
 In the past ''we were able to borrow money in order to continue the mission of the organization,'' said Michael Connelly, a board member since 1995 and president from 1998 to 2005. ''We've always just had a shortfall relative to the expectations.'' 
 Dance Theater Workshop is one of many organizations that have invested in buildings in recent years, hoping for homes in which to safeguard their artistic mission. But these spaces have become burdens, contributing to escalating deficits and distracting the institutions from their core purpose. 
 ''You get a building, and then you buy it, and then you get an endowment, and then the heavens open and the angels sing,'' said Clara Miller, president and chief executive of the national Nonprofit Finance Fund. ''And at each one of those steps up that ladder to heaven you're actually becoming less flexible. You're building more of a kind of organizational shell around yourself -- which you may need, which may be the right kind of cradle for your mission. But you may be really undermining your flexibility to change with the times.'' 
 Dance institutions have struggled to adapt to dwindling endowments and shrinking philanthropy. Squeezed between uncertain revenue streams and high fixed costs, organizations like Dance Theater Workshop, Dance New Amsterdam and 3LD Art & Technology Center find themselves beyond their means. Leaders of nonprofit groups say the economy has only worsened problems in an arts sector that is as overbuilt as the housing sector. 
 The cherished American belief that ownership guarantees security has been cruelly disproven for many, arts organizations as well as individuals, who bit off more than they could chew. The situation is acute in New York's cutthroat real estate market, especially for an impoverished, space-hungry field like dance. Eviction stories are legion, so it's no surprise that institutions are drawn to acquiring their own space. And the involvement of many parties -- the city, donors, foundations, architects and the organizations themselves -- can affect the scale of a project. 
 ''Especially in New York City the capital process drives people into this artificial growth spurt,'' said Brian Rogers, director of operations for Dance Theater Workshop and the co-founder, with Sheila Lewandowski, of the Chocolate Factory, a multidisciplinary theater in Long Island City, Queens. ''And when the city gets involved in the capital process, it becomes much more expensive than it has to be. There's not enough people in the process saying, 'No, let's do this simpler.' ''
 The Chocolate Factory is planning its own campaign to buy its 5,000-square-foot facility. The co-founders said they were adamantly resisting a constellation of city agencies, donors and others who push nonprofits to get bigger, both architecturally and programmatically, and to emulate for-profit models to increase earned income. 
 ''The pressure is to have another space for rentals,'' Ms. Lewandowski said, ''to increase the number of performances, to charge more for tickets, to sell CDs.'' 
 But expansion requires additional resources, she added, and ''funding sources still have not kept up with the general operating needs for programming, and that's the state and city as well.''
 Kate D. Levin, commissioner of the New York City Cultural Affairs Department, said the government could help pay for only so much and disagreed that it pushed excessive development.
 ''If you want to build something, and the city can help, that's great, but you cannot expect us to come in also with operating funds,'' she said, adding that this is why adequately developed and educated boards are crucial, especially those who understand that nonprofits needn't follow the commercial world's grow-or-die paradigm. ''We have to have organizations that are able to deal with the operating costs.'' 
 But it is exceedingly more difficult to raise money for everyday expenses than for shiny new architecture. Never mind the naming rights; there's nothing sexy about paying for utility bills. 
 ''We like to build things, but we don't want to sustain them,'' said Diane Ragsdale, associate program officer for performing arts at the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, speaking in an unofficial capacity. ''We want to close our eyes and believe that will magically happen.'' 
 Magical thinking certainly comes to mind when examining some organizations' choices. Dance New Amsterdam, for example, in 2006 moved to a six-studio facility on Chambers Street, now pays $60,000 a month on a multiyear commercial lease. Facing a $4.1 million debt and desperately needing steady income, it has rented several rooms to Pace University, outsourcing to nearby studios the very thing its mission rests on: its own classes.
 ''When you're in a loft and everyone's working together, that's one lifestyle,'' said Catherine Peila, who became executive director in August 2008 and slashed the budget from $3.6 million to $2.9 million, tightened accounting and overhauled revenue projections. There was ''a whole new model that needed to be developed.''
 She blamed delays in city and state funds and equipment for creating the need for costly bridge loans and overextended projects. This sentiment was echoed by Ellie Covan, the founding executive director of Dixon Place, an experimental performance space that recently moved from Ms. Covan's Bowery loft to a state-of-the-art facility on Chrystie Street. 
 Dixon Place has been conservative in building its facility and projecting revenue from its bar. (Such an amenity is a notoriously unreliable moneymaker.) But the reserve intended for increased operating costs is gone largely because of the downturn, and Plan B -- bringing in new donors, seeking funds from old donors and increasing its reach -- sounds ominously like other organizations' failed efforts. 
 ''Can we really stay true to our mission, particularly in this economy, and fulfill our financial commitments?'' Ms. Covan said of the decision by the artist-oriented theater temporarily to abandon a system in which it paid artists a set fee in favor of one based on ticket sales. ''That is the question. We have to take care of the institution first and foremost, or they won't even have a place to come, right?''
 As Dixon Place adjusts to a more imposing reality, in which taking care of the real estate sometimes comes before taking care of the artists, Dance Theater Workshop faces a diminished one. 
 ''I won't participate in any more debt being taken on by this organization,'' said the workshop's executive director, Andrea Sholler, signaling a sharp policy shift. She will have to trim $700,000 to $1 million from next year's $3.5 million budget to avoid accumulating more debt. 
 Many strategies have been debated: staff furloughs, a Joyce Theater partnership, selling the building outright. Ms. Sholler, who started in October,is banking on emergency donations as she streamlines operations and negotiates with the bondholders and foundations that set up the $1.37 million endowment, which the organization has borrowed against. She is laying off at least 5 of 23 employees and shortening by three months the presentation season, so the theater can be rented.
 The institution for now remains committed to staying put. Should it? The struggles of many institutions raise questions about how well real estate serves organizations' missions, especially given current dramatic shifts in technology and audience consumption habits. 
 ''Two or three years ago, when we looked across our portfolio, maybe 75 percent of the facility-based arts organizations who own or who are very strongly identified with a location, were financially on the ropes,'' Ms. Miller said. ''That tells us we've got a whole sector which, possibly, has built itself up based on an institutional model that is flawed.'' 
 But don't expect this model to disappear anytime soon. New York might even see something of a boom, said Paul Wolf of Denham Wolf Real Estate Services, which specializes in the nonprofit sector.
 ''The groups taking this time to get healthy and plan will be able to take advantage of the marketplace,'' he said. ''Two years ago a million bought them nothing. Now it will open the door.''
 What's waiting for them on the other side is an open question.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the home of Dance New Amsterdam, which faces debt. Above, ''Bear Crown,'' a recent production at Dance Theater Workshop, which moved into its current home in 2002.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLE CHUYN)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Right top, the main-stage interior at Dixon Place's new facility on Chrystie Street. Left bottom, a studio at Dance Theater Workshop's 19th Street building.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LESLIE STRONGWATER)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED RAWLINGS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



204 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; DINING MASSAPEQUA PARK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Surfing Motif Flavored By Tacos and Quesadillas

BYLINE: By JOANNE STARKEY

 BODY:
WHEN Zim Zari opened in January, the weather was as dreary as the economic news. This new Massapequa Park restaurant is a tonic for both. 
 Its decor is sunny, with a surfing motif: boards mounted over the bar, murals of sand and palm trees and an overhead TV showing home movies of giant waves. As for the menu, entrees start at $5.95 and top out at $12.95; the children's menu has meals for $3.95.
The casual staff members are as warm and lighthearted as the decor. Waiters sport black T-shirts with a pineapple logo on the front and messages like ''peace, love and tacos'' on the back. The restaurant's full name is Zim Zari California Coastal Grill, suggesting seafood, big salads and lots of avocado. Zim Zari uses all those ingredients, but often in dishes like burritos, fajitas, tacos and quesadillas. 
 Appetizers are less predictable. Our favorite opener was bang bang shrimp, a big bowl of crisply crusted small shrimp tossed in a creamy spicy sauce. They were first cousins to Japanese rock shrimp tempura. Another Asian-inspired starter is habanero edamame; the soybean pods were tossed in habanero oil and served with a cilantro-lime salt for dipping. They were just hot enough to produce a slight tingle in the mouth.
 The house-made guacamole was chunky and full of flavor. Even better were the ''upside down nachos'' -- a definite improvement over the usual ones, whose heavy toppings quickly turn tortilla chips soggy. This version featured a small casserole of refried beans, salsa, sour cream, diced tomatoes and chopped avocado under a mantle of melted cheese, surrounded by warm, crisp chips for dipping.
 The only opener that missed the mark was the Laguna Beach lettuce wraps. The grilled diced chicken in the filling was dry, and the bibb lettuce wrappers didn't provide the same crunch as iceberg.
 Zim Zari impresses with high-quality ingredients. The meat in the steak fajitas was juicy and tender, and it was sizzling when it came to the table. The beef was equally tender in the memorable Southwest steak salad, which was the best entree we sampled; it also included crisply fried onions, fire-roasted corn and romaine lettuce in a chipotle Parmesan dressing. Another high point was a dish called a zimzalada. It contained three flour tortillas stuffed with one's choice of filling, sauced, covered with cheese and baked. We tried one with a filling that incorporated shrimp, avocado, scallions, charred pineapple and diced tomato; it was hefty, hearty and delicious.
 The juicy chicken fajitas were as good as the steak variety. Diners can choose either the usual flour tortillas to wrap their meat and vegetables or go ''Cali style'' with bibb lettuce wraps.
 That old standby cheese quesadilla was crisp outside and gooey with cheese within. It was served with a side of lime sour cream; a dollop of guacamole would have made it even better. California tacos also showed off first-class ingredients. We liked the surf-and-turf tacos, served in crunchy flour taco shells, which combined firm shrimp and cubes of tender filet mignon with a chipotle pesto sauce, Jack and Cheddar cheeses and crispy onions.
 The dessert roster lists appropriate finales ($3.95 to $4.95). Best were the long, crisp, sugar-coated churros (fried dough). The fried ice cream, battered and breaded in a crisp cinnamon coating, arrived in a crunchy flour tortilla shell with caramel sauce and whipped cream. The tropical fruit flan, dotted with chunks of mango, hit the spot, but a cookie-dough flauta did not. Consisting of chocolate chip cookie dough loaded into a flour tortilla and fried, it was heavy and unappealing.
 But just about everything else at this very casual, inexpensive restaurant lightened the spirit.
 Zim Zari
 California Coastal Grill
 4964 Merrick Road
 Southgate Shopping Center
 Massapequa Park
 (516) 809-6960
 zimzari.com
 VERY GOOD
 THE SPACE Long, narrow restaurant with bare tables, open kitchen and spirited waiters. Not wheelchair accessible.
 THE CROWD Very casual. Lots of children.
 THE BAR A service bar only. Three wines, served only by the glass ($7), as well as sangria ($5.95 a glass, $25.95 a pitcher) and a half-dozen beers ($3.75 to $4.75). Tropical drinks like daiquiris ($5.50) and margaritas ($5.50 to $8.95) are featured.
 THE BILL The same menu is served all day. Entrees are $5.95 to $12.95. Children's meals are $3.95. American Express, MasterCard, Visa and Discover are accepted.
 WHAT WE LIKE Bang bang shrimp, upside down nachos, habanero edamame, guacamole, cheese quesadilla, surf-and-turf tacos, Southwest steak salad, chicken fajitas, steak fajitas, shrimp zimzalada, fried ice cream, churros, flan.
 IF YOU GO Open 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday to Thursday, till 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday. No reservations.
 Reviewed April 5, 2009 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEARTY: Diners at Zim Zari California Coastal Grill, where bang bang tacos, left, are featured on the menu. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SURFING (90%); MENU PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SNACK FOODS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



205 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: 40 Years On, It's Woodstock 'The Brand'

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WOODSTOCK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 As we approach the 40th anniversary of the concert that wasn't held here, it's important to know that these days Woodstock Nation, like Caesar's Gaul, is divided into three parts.
 There's the concert site itself, about an hour from here, which is now part of the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, where there will no doubt be concerts, museum exhibits, movies and assorted observances of the half million who luxuriated in the muck and shouted ''No rain, no rain,'' in August 1969.
 There's Michael Lang, one of Woodstock's co-creators, who has a memoir coming out, who has made assorted marketing deals for the Woodstock logo and gear and who is hoping to put together a free, greenish concert extravaganza, perhaps in Brooklyn or Queens, near the anniversary of the event. 
 And then, there are the purveyors of a new cyber-Woodstock for the Internet era, who can be found in the intergalactic headquarters of the Woodstock Broadcasting Network. Once this was a tiny local station, WDST Radio Woodstock, where various shaggy-haired creatures played progressive rock. Now, through a combination of smart trademark lawyering and advances in broadband technology and streaming media, it can make a credible claim for bringing Woodstock to the world. 
 Indeed, while mighty commercial empires and brands have dwindled or collapsed, there are few brands, after all these years, as resilient as Woodstock's.
 ''Everything we do is about the brand,'' said Gary Chetkof, who with Richard Fusco runs Woodstock Broadcasting Network, the enterprise that is one part local radio station, one part concert promoter and one part fledgling new-media conglomerate. ''It's about programming to the Woodstock brand, connecting music from the late '60s to today, the alternative, holistic lifestyle and products that cater to it. We're not just tied to this piece of earth we're sitting on any more.'' 
 Of course, lots of people have their own ties to the Woodstock experience, from the guys with stringy ponytails who came in 1969 and never left to tie-dyed high school kids. Locally they include sundry big-time musicians who still call the place home, merchants at places like Ye Olde Hippie Shoppe of Woodstock or the people driving old Volvos with bumper stickers reading: ''Welcome to Woodstock: We're All Here Because We're Not All There.''
 AS it is everywhere, the economy here is sagging, but people are hoping for a boost from the anniversary, few more so than Radio Woodstock. Mr. Fusco, who once ran a beloved local club, the Joyous Lake, was part of the original programming team when WDST began in 1980. When Mr. Chetkof bought it in 1993, he and Mr. Fusco focused on the broadcast and online possibilities and began trademarking names and Web addresses.
 ''I specialized in trademarks, and I realized, 'Wow, I could own the radio station and one day it could be beamed all over the world,' '' Mr. Chetkof said in his office, a riot of old guitars and music memorabilia. ''Usually you create a product and establish the brand. This is the opposite. We're trying to fit things programming-wise and commerce-wise into this existing global brand.'' 
 Their plans include music Web sites, a Woodstock social network and perhaps a cable station where Woodstock TV reporters could report from concerts the way the Weather Channel descends on hurricanes. 
 There will, of course, be much more this year, including many books, an Ang Lee film and a four-hour director's cut of the Woodstock concert movie with previously unreleased footage.
 Mr. Lang and Bethel Woods are trying to complete separate concert plans, but Mr. Lang says all signs are propitious for a major celebration. 
 ''There seems like a big appetite for it, and a lot may have to do with what's going on around us,'' he said. ''The election of Barack Obama seems like a Woodstock moment in a way. And there are a lot of similarities between the late 1960s and where we are now. That was sort of an out-of-the-blue moment of hope when people saw a better path, and I think people are looking for something like that now.''
 On the other hand, maybe the 40th will be a big moment simply because who knows who will be alive, sensate and ambulatory by the 50th.
 As Barry Samuels, who owns the Golden Notebook bookstore, said, ''We might as well celebrate the 40th like it's the 50th, because who knows who's going to be around in 10 years?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC (78%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (72%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (67%); BROADBAND (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



206 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Panel Discussion

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
1BOG
 Most of the time, a single customer has relatively little in the way of bargaining power with a larger business entity. A pack of customers introduces a different dynamic. That's why, for instance, your company or trade group can get you a better deal on health insurance than you might get on your own. Collective buying power has been harnessed in various ways in the past, but generally speaking the strategy has been marginal among contemporary American consumers, maybe because it doesn't mesh well with the rugged individualist's self-image. 
 Then again, in a cultural moment when many individuals aren't feeling all that rugged, perhaps it makes sense that a company called 1BOG has put collective buying at the center of its business model. The name is derived from the phrase ''one block off the grid,'' a reference to the goal of rounding up groups of homeowners willing to install solar-power systems on their houses -- removing the rough equivalent of one block from a city's electrical grid. 
 The first 1BOG effort, last year, enlisted 41 San Franciscans to ''solar up,'' with a group-purchase discount of 20 percent or more from Real Goods Solar, an installer. (The specific discount depends on the size of the system, among other factors; the name notwithstanding, 1BOG participants actually remain on the grid but use less electricity supplied the traditional way.) The firm is now recruiting its third batch of Bay Area residents for a group buy and is at various stages of similar efforts in Los Angeles, San Diego and New Orleans. Those will most likely be followed by Denver and Phoenix.
 Owned by Virgance, a for-profit company based in San Francisco, 1BOG aims to make money by collecting what amounts to a referral fee from the solar installer, and some of the incentives it offers to consumers involve straightforward middleman functions: mastering the details of state, local and federal incentive programs that drastically lower costs; vetting solar-installation companies; and so on. Solar panels are, after all, a big-ticket item that few consumers know much about. (Costs vary, but under normal circumstances a $20,000 price tag is not unusual.) Finding the best installer and getting a fair price can be intimidating and bewildering. 
 But it's the way that 1BOG goes about building its collectives that gives some credence to the assertion by Steve Newcomb, Virgance C.E.O., that the company is engaged in something of a ''societal, economic and political experiment.'' When 1BOG starts a ''campaign'' in a city, it relies on its consumer participants to recruit more consumer participants. ''The reason we call it a campaign is that we run it like a political campaign -- house parties, signs in yards, bumper stickers,'' he says. 
 This can work only if it taps into something besides the savvy consumer's hunt for a good deal: the more abstract quest to be part of a solution or even a movement. Newcomb explicitly positions his company's strategy as a kind of sequel to Obamamania, and in fact he has hired a former Obama organizer to create, expand and maximize the company's ''volunteer work force.'' In other words, the strategy is to make collective buying appealing as much for the collective as for the buying. 
 Kanyi Maqubela, the former Obama campaign organizer (he was based in Nevada), joined Virgance as its ''field director'' this past February. He suggests that 1BOG is tapping into ''latent activism'' now that the election is over but immense problems and challenges still pervade daily life. The first step in a 1BOG campaign -- people in a given city simply signing up on the company's Web site to express (nonbinding) interest -- generally happens as a result of press or blog coverage of the company. That's how New Orleans made its way onto the short list: an article in The Times-Picayune incited more than 200 sign-ups, which got the company's attention. (Louisiana happens to offer a generous subsidy to solar consumers.) Maqubela speaks with such 1BOG ''supporters'' to identify the rough equivalent of precinct captains. 
 Newcomb says the company plans to add cities, but it also intends to run a new campaign every four months in the cities where it is already established. This would make solar power more common, and it would also put collective buying into the American mainstream in a new way. Newcomb muses about other ways the model could be applied -- group purchases of hybrid vehicles perhaps? ''Once we've built a community buying club,'' he points out, ''it's built.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); POLITICS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%)

COMPANY: REAL GOODS SOLAR INC (55%)

TICKER: RSOL (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238990 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY TRADE CONTRACTORS (55%); SIC1799 SPECIAL TRADE CONTRACTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



207 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Spreading the Green

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BOWDEN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I GREW up in Wisconsin, on a six-acre farm outside Milwaukee. We didn't actually farm -- we had a garden and a few goats. My dad was a scientist at the Pabst brewery who moved into the sales division. 
 When I was 9, I would take my wagon up and down the street, collecting old newspapers from the neighbors. I took the papers to the recycling center and turned them in for cash. At the time, I didn't realize it was good for the environment. 
 My father loved sales, so when Pabst insisted that he return to the lab he found a job selling chemical reagents to doctors and we moved to the high desert of Southern California. We went from having a small forest on our property in Wisconsin to having three small mulberry trees on a little over an acre. 
 In 1991, I graduated from Azusa Pacific University, a Christian university near Los Angeles, with a major in art and a minor in business. I had started hearing about a hole in the ozone layer in the 1980s, and I realized students could do a lot to help the environment.
 I created a campus organization, Students Against Vandalizing Earth, or SAVE, and started a recycling program for the school. We educated students on environmental awareness, but it was tough getting people to care back then.
 I completed my senior project in ceramic pottery. An art professor said that if I was going to survive in this field, I would have to make 100 cups, bowls and plates every day until I became well known. That's when I decided to go into business. 
 I thought I'd get an M.B.A and join a nonprofit, but the founder of a small nonprofit discouraged me. He said I'd be too busy fund-raising to do much good. I'd be better off using my business skills to make money and then donate it to nonprofits.
 I delivered pizza briefly, then worked as an independent contractor for 16 years for a company called Prepaid Legal Services. I made it to their top sales level. 
 Last year, my wife, Alison, and I started a business called Green Shield International to distribute products that won't harm the environment. She's chief operating officer. 
 Our goal is to build a ''green referral network'' in which consumers can reduce their carbon footprint and profit from helping others do the same. When a customer buys a product from us and refers someone else who buys, the first customer receives a referral fee.
 One of our products is a radiant barrier reflective insulation based on technology approved by NASA for the space program. The insulation is either laid over existing attic insulation or stapled to the rafters. In the summer it reflects most of the sun's radiant heat to help prevent it from filtering into the house. In the winter the insulation reflects the radiant heat that rises and helps keep heat in the house. A simple analogy is that it's like living inside a thermos bottle.
 We're using Twitter to get sales leads but retaining the human element. I have a personal account and a business account. I've set up an auto-response on my personal account so that people who follow me get an initial message like this: ''Thank you, James! You can also follow my wife and our business if you're not already.'' People think that mentioning my wife is quaint -- one person said it's nice that we're a husband-and-wife team. It's not like I'm smacking them in the face and asking them to follow my business and perhaps offering a free report. 
 I've found that many people recycle if they can save money, by redeeming bottles, for example, or because their city makes it easy. But some might hesitate to be environmentally friendly in the current economy if there's a cost -- such as if they bought green laundry detergent that's more expensive. We figure that if people can actually make money by going green, there will be more participation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BRADLEY BOWDEN: Chief executive, Green Shield International, McKinney, Tex.
AGE: 40
HOW HE SAVES MONEY: By buying used books
 MENTOR: Tony Robbins 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BREWERIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (71%); VANDALISM (68%); APPROVALS (67%); SPACE EXPLORATION (61%); OZONE DEPLETION (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



208 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Is Down, Vitamin Sales Are Up

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS; Rebecca Cathcart and Christopher Maag contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It was a nasty head cold that sent Kerry Parham to Cinagro's, a health-food store in suburban Cleveland, for an $8 bottle of herbal supplements.
 ''If I had a job with health insurance, I probably would have gone to see a doctor by now,'' said Ms. Parham, 39, who lost her clerical job at American Greetings a while back. ''But instead, I'm here buying echinacea. I hope it works.'' 
 In flusher times, Ms. Parham said, she spent $50 a month on prescriptions for her asthma, allergies and other chronic problems. Now, she pays $6 a month for over-the-counter protein supplements and oregano oil capsules. ''That's an important savings for me,'' she said. ''It means I can rent a movie or make the kids food that they actually like.'' 
 A lot of consumers seem to be doing the same math. Sales of vitamins and nutritional supplements, which have grown consistently for years, have surged in recent months, rising as the stock market has fallen. People are clearly cutting back on many items, from bread and milk to designer jeans and flat-screen televisions, but they are stocking up on pills that they think can spare them expensive doctor visits.
 ''When you go to the formal health system, you very quickly lose control over what this costs you,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a professor of economics at Princeton whose specialty is health care policy. Instead of turning immediately to a doctor, ''people try to initially tough it out,'' he said. 
 Professor Reinhardt sees the growing interest in vitamins and herbs as a logical extension of the concept of ''consumer-directed health care'' -- the idea that people will take more preventative measures if their insurance deductibles are set higher -- which has been working its way from conservative policy circles toward the mainstream over the last 20 years. Critics say this approach leads to predicaments like Ms. Parham's, with people staying sicker longer and avoiding much-needed medical treatment. 
 At the Vitamin Shoppe, a national chain with 414 stores, customers have been expressing alarm over health care costs and the high unemployment rate, said Tom Tolworthy, the company chairman. ''The reduction of benefits associated with prescription drugs is sending people to prevention and alternative health care,'' he said. 
 The Vitamin Shoppe has tracked a rise in new customers of about 20 percent over the last six months, Mr. Tolworthy said. That increase is at least 25 percent higher than the rise in new customers that the chain saw in the recession of 2001. 
 Nationally, the numbers tell a similar story. For the three months ending Dec. 28, sales of vitamins rose nearly 8 percent compared with the same period in 2007, according to Information Resources Inc., a market research company in Chicago. At the same time, sales of other health-related products -- like cough and cold remedies, first-aid products and pain relievers -- have been dipping, according to the Nielsen Company.
 The strong sales of vitamins and supplements have continued into this year. ''Our best January and February in history are the ones that just happened,'' said Tom Newmark, chief executive of New Chapter Inc., a 26-year-old supplements manufacturer in Brattleboro, Vt.
 Direct evidence linking the rise in sales to the recession is more anecdotal than scientific, though industry analysts said they saw the same correlation -- though less pronounced -- in previous downturns.
 ''I don't have health insurance, so I can't go and see a doctor because it's very expensive,'' said Jacqueline Kreiss, an unemployed hairstylist and makeup artist in Manhattan who joined the frequent-buyer club at the Vitamin Shoppe a few months ago. ''The economy just really put me backward, so I started relying on the vitamins.''
 Whether a testament to vitamins or the power of placebo, Ms. Kreiss, 40, said she was happy with the results. ''I feel very energetic,'' she said. ''I feel strong again. I feel I'm in full form to go out there and get a job.''
 Certainly, America's interest in supplements did not begin with the current recession. The industry has accounted for as much as $23 billion in domestic sales annually in recent years. 
 Even so, the jump in sales last fall amid such widespread financial distress caught some people by surprise. ''We didn't expect that,'' said Patrick Rea, publisher and editorial director of Nutrition Business Journal, a trade paper based in Boulder, Colo. ''We were like, 'What's going on here?' ''
 Doctors caution against putting too much faith in supplements, and recent studies have cast doubt on the long-term effectiveness of products like multivitamins and vitamin E for certain cancers and heart disease. Dr. Edward L. Langston, a former chairman of the board of the American Medical Association, said he counseled his patients to take limited doses of vitamin C, but said supplements were no ''panacea,'' nor a substitute for traditional health care. 
 ''A little common sense here goes a long way,'' Dr. Langston said.
 But science does not seem to have shaken everyone's faith. Amy Breslin, who is 33 and studying to be a physician's assistant, has pared back on fresh fruits and vegetables and stocked up instead on fish oil capsules and antioxidant supplements.
 ''Organics are expensive,'' she said at a vitamin store in Los Angeles. ''Supplements may be more of a bang for my buck.''
 Because of consumers like her, supplement sales have been a rare bright spot for Whole Foods. ''We just reported our first quarter of negative growth in our company's history, but the supplement area is performing better than the rest of the store,'' said Jeremiah McElwee, a senior coordinator who oversees supplements sales for the company. 
 While multivitamins and fish oil capsules have sold particularly well, many people have their own personal favorites. Monique Miedema, who is 42 and works in finance in Los Angeles, places her faith in a supplement called Adrenal Health, which its manufacturer, Gaia Herbs, describes as a mix of six herbal ingredients meant to ''support calmness.'' 
 ''There was no salary increase this year, and I live in Santa Monica in a high-rent apartment,'' she said. Holding up a little brown bag with her purchase, she added, ''I've been doing this more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacqueline Kreiss of New York shuns doctor visits but is a frequent buyer at the Vitamin Shoppe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (92%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FOOD SUPPLEMENT STORES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ASTHMA (70%); NUTRITION (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (58%); VITAMIN SHOPPE INC (52%)

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (58%); VSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



209 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Co-op Fees Go Through The Roof

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
CO-OPS across the city have raised their maintenance charges by as much as 15 percent in recent months, and one of the main causes is rising property taxes.
 Board members and building managers say that while maintenance increases averaged only about 5 percent last year, many co-op buildings are now dealing with double-digit increases.
 ''Operating costs have gone up, but property taxes have skyrocketed,'' said John Janangelo, the president of Bellmarc Property Management, which manages about 50 apartment buildings in Manhattan. He said that taxes for some of his buildings had risen by as much as 35 percent in 2009. ''It comes at the worst time,'' he added, ''because financially everyone is suffering. You don't want to pass through these huge increases because people can't afford them, but you have no choice.'' 
 Property taxes went up at the start of the year when the city eliminated a 7 percent homeowner tax cut initiated in 2007, when the city was on better financial footing. But there is another reason for the increase. Buildings whose property values soared in recent years are experiencing even bigger tax increases because the assessed values of their buildings have gone up.
 Co-op boards routinely challenge their assessments and if the city's Tax Commission does not reduce the assessments, boards can appeal in court. Because the process is lengthy, a building that has received a series of big assessment increases may not get relief for years. 
 ''Assessments have gone up based on last year's market,'' said David Kuperberg, the president of Cooper Square Realty, which manages about 200 co-ops and condominiums. ''And that's like kicking homeowners while they're down,'' he added, noting that assessments often take a while to catch up to the market.
 Marty Hoffman, the board treasurer of a 106-unit co-op on West 89th Street, said that the assessed valuation of the building had gone up every year in the last five years for a total increase of 107 percent. The property tax bill has gone up 55 percent, from $369,000 in 2004 to $574,000 in 2009. Taxes this year alone went up by $83,000, or roughly $783 more annually for each tenant shareholder. 
 Because each year's higher assessment is phased in over a five-year period, Mr. Hoffman's building faces at least four more years of hefty assessment increases as the increases that were issued when the market was booming continue to kick in. Mr. Hoffman said that even though the tentative assessment increase for 2009-10 was only 1 percent, the building may have another tax increase of about $83,000 next year because of the phase-in of previous assessment increases. ''Aside from the run-up in oil prices,'' he said, ''nothing has gone up as fast as real estate taxes.'' 
 Mr. Hoffman said cheaper fuel was the only reason his building had been able to limit its annual maintenance fee increase to 7.2 percent. ''If oil prices hadn't dropped, we would have been faced with a 15 percent increase.'' 
 Some operating costs have risen, however. Richard Montanye, a partner with the accounting firm of Marin & Montanye in Port Washington on Long Island, which works with hundreds of buildings in the city, said that water and sewerage charges went up 14.5 percent last year. ''Housing costs in the city in the past four to five years have far outpaced inflation,'' he said.
 At the same time, some revenue sources have been drying up for many buildings. Those with commercial tenants, especially retail outlets, have been hit hard by the recession, with many tenants asking for rent reductions because their sales volume has dropped off significantly.
 ''Retail tenants are all hurting,'' said Richard Siegler, a lawyer who represents about 150 co-ops, ''and they're all coming to boards and asking for relief. If the economy improves, then a lot of this will go by the by, but if not, then boards will have to contemplate losing tenants, even though they'd rather not have a vacancy.''
 Buildings that in a stronger market relied on income from flip taxes -- a sort of transfer fee for each sales transaction -- may also struggle now that sales volume throughout the city has been reduced to a trickle.
 Robert Berliner's 277-unit building on Sutton Place has a 2 percent flip tax for outside buyers, which he said ''was a pretty significant source of revenue in 2006 and 2007.'' The building had used that income to meet operating costs, but because there are now so few apartments changing hands in the building, the board has shifted its flip tax revenue into its reserve fund. ''We're trying to be more realistic and more conservative in dealing with our budget,'' he said.
 Mr. Berliner said that because real estate taxes are so high for the building, the board may consider raising the flip tax to 3 percent. Property taxes were just under $3 million last year and represented the single largest expense in the building's $7 million budget. 
 Mr. Berliner, who is the co-op's board treasurer, said that the city raised the building's assessment by 25 percent in 2008, but the building challenged the increase and got it reduced to 10 percent.
 ''But when you consider the state of the economy and what's happening in real estate values,'' he said, ''how the city could have come up with any increase in assessed valuation is beyond me.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a sharp rise in maintenance charges in many New York City co-ops gave an outdated location for Marin & Montanye, an accounting firm on Long Island that serves hundreds of buildings in the city. The firm is in Uniondale, not Port Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



210 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: College Tuition Not on the House

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
PARENTS of college-age children used to be able to count on home-equity loans to help pay tuition, but this is no longer the case with housing values sliding and the mortgage market imposing much tighter restrictions on loans.
 As a result, educational institutions that once considered a house as a college fund of sorts are taking a more realistic look at home equity's role in the financial aid equation. 
''With so many people up against the wall with declining home values,'' said Philip Day, president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, ''the issue of using home-equity loans for tuition is almost rendered moot.''
 Of the roughly 2,000 four-year colleges nationwide, only about 250 require applicants for financial aid to disclose a home's value and outstanding mortgage debt. That disclosure comes in the College Scholarship Service's Financial Aid Profile, a supplement to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.
 Institutions that require the Financial Aid Profile are typically costlier, and wealthier, with endowments large enough to sustain a supplemental financial aid program. Traditionally, these schools would ask parents to contribute 5 or 6 percent of their home's equity to the tuition.
 As real estate values climbed in the early part of this decade, colleges started to back away from that formula, because it forced many families of otherwise modest means to cover too much of the cost of tuition. About two dozen of the nation's more affluent colleges, like Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, capped the amount of home equity that they would consider available for tuition.
 If an applicant had, say, $500,000 in available home equity and the household income was $100,000, some of these colleges would consider only $120,000 of home equity in their financial aid calculations, or 1.2 times the family's income. Others would multiply the household income by 1.5 or 2, instead.
 Some schools, like Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, N.Y., have not opted for a cap. But now that home values are lower, and families cannot easily qualify for home-equity loans, applicants are getting a break in other ways. ''We're seeing less equity available now,'' said Heather McDonnell, the director of financial aid, ''so our expectations for families are down.''
 Ms. McDonnell said that a household with an adjusted gross income of about $100,000, and $150,000 in available home equity, had been expected to use roughly 5.65 percent of that home equity for a year of tuition. That amounts to about $9,000 of Sarah Lawrence's tuition and fees, which exceed $50,000.
 But Ms. McDonnell says she and industry colleagues understand that home equity is now harder to access (although such loans are attractive to some borrowers, because they are tax deductible). Banks will often deny second mortgages even to those with lots of equity if borrowers have poor credit scores or if their income consists heavily of commissions or bonuses.
 In such situations, Ms. McDonnell said she would lower a family's expected tuition contribution and either lobby for a larger grant from the college or recommend other loan options.
 Rick Darvis, a founder of the National Institute of Certified College Planners in Syracuse, said that consumers were increasingly hesitant to use home equity for tuition, because ''most of them may want to use it to survive themselves until this economic crisis is over.'' 
 He noted that some older parents (at least 62) are instead considering reverse mortgages, which also convert the equity in homes into cash. Unlike conventional loans, reverse mortgages require no monthly payments, and the money doesn't have to be repaid until a home is sold, or the borrowers move out.
 ''It's probably not a smart idea to do it,'' Mr. Darvis said, adding that in such cases the children might bear more of the financial burden of tuition. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) Chart details line graph. (THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STUDENT FINANCIAL AID ADMINISTRATORS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



211 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: For Clunkers, a Retirement Plan That's Safe

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
AMONG the government programs under consideration to spur vehicle sales is one that would offer consumers money to trade in older vehicles for new, more fuel-efficient ones. 
 Such plans are typically called cash-for-clunkers programs. One proposal now in the House of Representatives is called the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act. 
 In its current form, the bill, sponsored by Representative Betty Sutton, Democrat of Ohio, would provide a cash voucher to consumers who trade in a vehicle older than the 2001 model year to buy ''a new fuel-efficient vehicle'' that does not cost more than $35,000. The new vehicle must be assembled in North America, but foreign brands are eligible.
 The cash voucher would be given to the selling dealer and the amount -- up to a maximum of $5,000 -- would depend on the fuel economy of the purchased vehicle and where in North America it was assembled. 
 For example, a car built in the United States and rated by the Environmental Protection Agency at 27 miles a gallon or more would be earn a $4,000 voucher. A car built in Canada or Mexico, though, would have to return at least 30 m.p.g. on the highway to get a $4,000 voucher.
 The bill is a long way from becoming law, but the concept has won support. Noting that such programs have been successful in Europe, President Obama said, ''I want to work with Congress to identify parts of the Recovery Act that could be trimmed to fund such a program, and make it retroactive starting today.'' 
 That concept has a lot of potential, according to some analysts. But it has been scorned by the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. The A.C.E.E.E. argues that ''scrapping all pre-2001 vehicles indiscriminately does not serve any valid purpose and should not be funded by taxpayers.'' Instead, such a program should focus only on older vehicles that get poor fuel economy, the council said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: BETTY SUTTON (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



212 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Before Killings, Hints of Plans And Grievance

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA and NATE SCHWEBER; Anahad O'Connor contributed reporting in New York City, and Francesca Segre in Inglewood, Calif.

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The night before the killings, Son Quach spotted a former co-worker playing racquetball alone at a gym here called the Court Jester. It was the third time he had seen the man, Jiverly Wong, at the gym that week. 
 Mr. Wong told Mr. Quach, speaking in their native Vietnamese, that he had been laid off and was living on $200 a week in unemployment benefits. He spent so much time at the gym, Mr. Quach said, because he could not find a job.
 The next morning, according to the police, Mr. Wong, 41, burst into the headquarters of the American Civic Association, where until recently he had been taking classes to improve his English, wearing body armor and firing two handguns, killing 13 students and employees and wounding four others before committing suicide. The shootings on Friday were the nation's worst killings since the 2007 massacre at Virginia Tech.
 ''At one point in his thinking process, he was going to take the police on -- or at least try to stop us from stopping him,'' Chief Joseph Zikuski of the Binghamton police said on Saturday, referring to Mr. Wong's bullet-resistant vest. ''He must have been a coward,'' Chief Zikuski added. ''When he heard the sirens he decided to take his own life.'' 
 The details of Mr. Wong's life and the way it ended were still being investigated, but in the buildup to the killings there were hints of mounting frustration and evidence of premeditation. Like many of those who were killed, Mr. Wong was an immigrant, striving to gain a toehold in the United States as he moved between California and upstate New York. But he seemed to have hit a wall, struggling to improve his English, dependent on government aid and unable to find financial stability amid the worst economic crisis in decades.
 Chief Zikuski said that to people close to Mr. Wong, ''the actions that he took were not a surprise to them.'' 
 ''He felt that he was degraded because of his inability to speak English, and he was upset about that,'' Chief Zikuski said. ''This behavior on his part wasn't a total shock.'' 
 But to many who knew him, the sudden violence did not fit the man they knew. People who worked with Mr. Wong, at a local Shop-Vac factory, on an I.B.M. line in Endicott, N.Y., and at a sushi delivery company in California, described him as amiable but reserved and someone who kept to himself more because of his limited English than because he was a loner. 
 He was also a gun enthusiast who often spent weekends shooting targets and trying out different guns at a local sporting goods store. He had been licensed to carry handguns in New York since 1996, the police said. 
 Neighbors in Union, outside Binghamton, where Mr. Wong lived with his parents and a sister, said they knew Mr. Wong's father as a kind man who grew grapes in the backyard and apples in the front. They sometimes saw the younger Mr. Wong mowing the lawn but otherwise said he mostly stayed inside when he was home. 
 On Saturday, his family posted a sign outside their two-story house saying, ''No press, please.'' 
 Chief Zikuski said Mr. Wong, who the police say also used the last name Voong, caught the attention of law enforcement officials in 1999 after they received a tip that he was planning a bank robbery and had a crack cocaine habit. He had a ''criminal incident'' out of state, the authorities said, but they provided no details. 
 Mr. Quach said he worked with Mr. Wong at I.B.M. in Endicott about seven or eight years ago taking apart computers. When they saw each other at the gym that week, Mr. Wong told him that he had moved to California because he could earn more money there, as a truck driver, and that he had a girlfriend. ''He said after he got laid off she say, 'Bye-bye,' '' Mr. Quach said. ''I said, 'Maybe she loves your money.' He smiled.''
 Hue Huynh, 56, Mr. Quach's wife, who is a clerk at Vietnamese market on Main Street in Binghamton owned by her brother, was with her husband when they saw Mr. Wong at the gym. 
 ''He told my husband, 'I'm very upset I don't have a job,' '' Ms. Huynh recalled. 
 ''He said he tried to find a job but nobody like him.'' She said her husband tried to reassure him: ''He told him, 'You're still young, you will be okay, you will get a job again.' '' 
 ''He was a nice boy,'' Ms. Huynh added. ''He had bad luck, he went everywhere but no good job for him.'' 
 Between 2000 and 2007, Mr. Wong worked at Kikka Sushi in Inglewood, Calif., near Los Angeles, earning $9 an hour as a driver until he failed to show up for work one day, said Paulus Lukas, a human resources employee for the company. Mr. Wong made few friends and rarely socialized, he said, ''but didn't have any personal problems or anything like that that we know of.'' 
 At Shop-Vac in Endicott, which closed last year and where Mr. Wong apparently worked next assembling vacuums, he was known simply as Wong and wore jeans and T-shirts emblazoned with the New York Yankees logo.
 David Ackley, 18, who worked with Mr. Wong at Shop-Vac for a few months, said he would often say that he had spent the weekend at a firing range, and joked about shooting politicians.
 ''I asked him who he was going to vote for, and he said, 'I don't really care, I'd shoot both of them,' '' recalled Mr. Ackley, whose father, Donald, also worked at Shop-Vac. When the elder Mr. Ackley told Mr. Wong, ''You better watch out, I'm going to call the F.B.I.,'' he said Saturday. Mr. Wong responded, ''I'm just joking around.''
 The two men said that they often talked to Mr. Wong during breaks, but that the language barrier meant mostly superficial conversations. 
 ''I asked him once about wife and kids,'' Donald Ackley said. ''He said he had a daughter in California, I think Los Angeles, but he never talked about it again.''
 Mr. Wong was laid off, along with everyone else, the day before Thanksgiving, a fact that left many workers embittered, Donald Ackley said. But Mr. Wong seemed unperturbed, he said, and instead sought help filing for unemployment. 
 ''You think he would have been disgruntled about that,'' Mr. Ackley said. ''What would have stopped him from coming to Shop-Vac and killing all of us?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State troopers outside the family home of Jiverly Wong, left, near Binghamton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACQUETBALL (90%); FIREARMS (88%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (69%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



213 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Ever eat a possum? Don't try it.''
 Thomas Moon, who ate mountain berries, squirrels, rabbits and just one bite of possum during the Great Depression when he was growing up in Alabama. 
 ''People are scared. They have never seen anything like this.''
 Dottie Herman, president of the Prudential Douglas Elliman brokerage firm. Apartment sales in Manhattan declined sharply in the first quarter of 2009, compared with the yearearlier period.
 ''Our waters have become dumping grounds.''
 Maj. Paul Ouellette of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The bad economy is creating a flotilla of forsaken boats, and several states say they are aggressively starting to pursue delinquent owners.
 ''The era of a perfect Internet computer for $99 is coming this year.''
 Jen-Hsun Huang, chief of Nvidia, a maker of PC graphics chips. Inexpensive laptops the size of thin paperback books will soon be available; they can run all day on a single charge and feature touch screens or slide-out keyboards.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); WILDLIFE (88%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (85%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (67%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); NVIDIA CORP (56%)

TICKER: NVDA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT HUANG (56%); JEN-HSUN HUANG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) ALABAMA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



214 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; TAKE THE KIDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Affordable Fun on South Florida's Gold Coast

BYLINE: By CHARLES PASSY

 BODY:
IN the battle of fish versus pelican, our money was on the fish. Not that the plump, yellow-tailed amberjack was still alive, mind you. The catch was an angler's reject -- not particularly good eating, in other words -- but it looked like a decent lunch to the pelican that spotted it along the pier. 
 The only problem? The bird hadn't quite figured out how to wrap its mouth around its extra-wide find, resulting in a comical scene. My 10-year-old daughter, Emma, stood firmly in place, capturing it all on the family camera. 
 Such was the kind of cheap entertainment that abounded during a recent weekend family trip to the beach communities north of Fort Lauderdale and south of Boca Raton along the Gold Coast of South Florida. By most definitions, these oceanside towns -- Deerfield Beach, Hillsboro Beach, Pompano Beach and Lauderdale-by-the-Sea -- hardly qualify as destinations unto themselves. They are best suited to families (or retirees) who like the lost-in-time way of life they represent. 
 You don't go there to make the scene -- you go to frolic on a wide beach, eat at an unassuming grill along the water or spend the better part of an afternoon lounging in one of those just-bigger-than-a-bathtub hotel pools so common to the area. 
 ''This is a little town still stuck in the '50s,'' said Elaine Fitzgerald, who owns and operates several lodgings near the shore in Pompano Beach, with rates that start at $75 a night in the off-season and $179 in the winter. 
 But for that very reason, this slice of South Florida can appeal to adults with a certain appreciation for vintage and kitsch. These beach communities have largely resisted the condo-building craze that turned Fort Lauderdale and Miami into a giant construction project during the peak of the recent housing boom. And as the prices at Ms. Fitzgerald's hotels suggest, the towns are well geared to those on a budget. 
 If anything, the recent troubled economic times have been something of a boon to the area. Family vacationers who can't afford the typical $300-and-up nightly rates for upscale beach lodgings in Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale are heading to Pompano Beach and its brethren in northern Broward County, saving money and savoring the nostalgic atmosphere. And the kids will surely trade luxury for an extra day -- or week -- at the beach.
 Because the upper Broward towns have a family feel, they attract the same families, year after year. For about a decade, Brian Hills, a printing company executive in Montclair, Va., has brought his brood -- wife and two kids -- to one of Ms. Fitzgerald's Pompano Beach hotels for a two-week stretch in August. ''Anything you want is right there,'' he said, noting both the easy access to the beach and the amenities that Ms. Fitzgerald provides her guests, including games and videos for the kids. 
 As for their daily routine, Mr. Hills said there wasn't much of one, but that's the point: They can walk to the beach or head out on a scuba-diving excursion (some of them got their certification while vacationing there in past years). They can venture away from the beach to some of South Florida's major attractions (all within a 15- to 60-minute drive), including a boat tour in Fort Lauderdale, a shopping excursion at the Sawgrass Mills outlet mall in western Broward or a stroll along gilded Worth Avenue in Palm Beach. 
 For my family, the area is more of a weekend getaway. We live about 50 miles north in Palm Beach County, but relish the chance to chill for a night or two anywhere we can find a clean, affordable place by the sea. 
 Since we're already South Floridians, we didn't plan our trips to Broward County around the activities that the region's major cities have to offer. Quite frankly, we went to do nothing.
 Well, almost nothing. For starters, we liked bumming around the hotels. On the outside, these circa 1940s and '50s lodgings may appear to be a few decades behind the time, but on the inside the best-appointed ones are up to date with wireless Internet and full kitchens. 
 That said, they combine that with a homey, kicked-back attitude that's very Floridian. If Jimmy Buffett owned a hotel, I suspect it might resemble something like the Deerfield Buccaneer in Deerfield Beach, where many vacationers spend their days lounging around the bean-shaped pool even though it's about a block from the beach. 
 Emma was won over by the place when she discovered a putting green in the courtyard. I was happy once I figured out how to work the window-mounted air-conditioner in our unit -- apparently, central air is still anathema to many of these mom-and-pop hotels. 
 At the Deerfield Buccaneer, it's not just a mom-and-pop affair but a two-generation one. Some of the hotel's 38 units are individually owned -- and largely rented out for much of the year -- but the same family management has been in place for three decades. 
 Nancy Shaller, one of the managers, said her parents moved to Florida from Minnesota in the early 1980s, buying a couple of units at the well-established hotel. From there, her parents stumbled into their roles as managers.
 But there's life beyond the Buccaneer -- especially on the beach. We had no problem finding the perfect spot. The attraction of this part of the coastline is its sheer width. Even on crowded days, there's always a chance to claim a prime circle of sand as a base for building sand castles, tossing a Frisbee or collecting shells. When it comes to swimming, though, keep in mind that the Atlantic can be a rough ride for 10-year-olds -- or even their dads.
 We were not limited to the beach. Emma made a point of checking out the ticky-tacky merchandise at the countless beach shops in all the towns. At a Wings shop in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, she headed straight for the rope bracelets, conveniently ignoring the fact she had a drawer full of them at home.
 But while she was thinking of shopping, I was thinking of food. Generally speaking, the waterfront restaurants in this part of Broward County are better than the tourist-trap norm (and they do a good job of catering to kids.) 
 Our finds included the smoked fish dip at Oceans 234 in Deerfield Beach; banana-coconut cream pie at JB's on the Beach, also in Deerfield; and the Slow Country Boil seafood stew at Joe's Riverside Grille in Pompano Beach. 
 When we decided to park ourselves for a few hours, we settled on Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, a walkable village where you can while away the morning over a feta cheese omelet at Athena by the Sea, a Greek-style diner by day and a Greek restaurant by night, or while away the afternoon fishing off Anglin's Pier, a 45-year-old legendary spot that stretches 876 feet into the ocean. 
 And if it rains? In our case, it gave us an excuse to play a marathon game of Monopoly while lunching on enormous take-out submarine sandwiches from LaSpada's Original Hoagies, a Lauderdale-by-the-Sea mainstay since 1973. In the end, the game was a draw.
 O.K., there are better ways to enjoy a beach vacation than moving pieces around a game board, but the joy of spending time in this part of the world is that a family need not feel pressured to seek out the fun. Instead, the fun finds you, slowly and unexpectedly. Just ask any 10-year-old. 
 SUN, SEA AND SURPRISES
 GETTING THERE
 Deerfield Beach, Hillsboro Beach, Pompano Beach and Lauderdale-by-the-Sea are all less than an hour's drive from either the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International or Palm Beach International Airports. 
 A car is necessary if you plan to spend any time away from the beach. But most hotels are within walking distance to shops and restaurants.
 WHERE TO STAY
 Elaine Fitzgerald's Beach Vacations Rentals (561-470-0542; www.4rentbythebeach.com) has several comfortable family-friendly beach lodgings in Pompano Beach. We stayed in a one-bedroom apartment at Pineapple Place (3217 Northeast Seventh Place), which had games and videos. There's also a small pool that's perfect for kids. Pineapple Place rates start at $126 a night in the off-season and $225 during the height of the winter-spring season.
 The Deerfield Buccaneer (120 North Ocean Drive, Deerfield Beach; 954-426-4672; www.deerfieldbuccaneer.com) is a three-story condo-hotel a block from the beach. Most of its 38 units are one-bedroom apartments. Rates start at $110 in low season, $130 in high season. 
 More lodging choices can be found through the Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau's Web site, www.sunny.org. 
 WHERE TO EAT
 If you want a waterfront view, here are a couple of worthy options: Joe's Riverside Grille (125 North Riverside Drive, Pompano Beach; 954-941-2499; www.joesriversidegrille.com) specializes in seafood, and is open for dinner only. Figure at least $30 a person before drinks. 
 Oceans 234 (234 North Ocean Boulevard, Deerfield Beach; 954-428-2539; www.oceans234.com) is more casual and open for lunch and dinner. Dinner entrees run from $19 to $33, but the children's menu has items like fish and chips and mac and cheese for $5 to $17.
 For breakfast, Athena by the Sea (4400 Ocean Drive, Lauderdale-by-the-Sea; 954-771-2900; www.athenabythesea.net) serves pancakes, omelets and other egg dishes, all under $10. Try some of the Greek breakfast options, including a feta cheese omelet and thick yogurt with honey, bananas and walnuts. 
 Need a sandwich to go? Look no further than LaSpada's Original Hoagies (4346 Sea Grape Drive, Lauderdale-by-the-Sea; 954-776-7893; www.laspadashoagies.com), which serves some of the best -- and biggest -- we've ever found in all of Florida, $6.60 to $10.95. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At sunrise, fishermen are already trying their luck at Anglin's Pier in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, one of the more affordable Broward County beach towns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Florida's Gold Coast 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); BEACHES (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); FAMILY TRAVEL (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); HOME PRICES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); HOTEL AMENITIES (64%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



215 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD; In America, Labor Has An Unusually Long Fuse

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The workers and other protesters who gathered en masse at the Group of 20 summit meeting last week in London were continuing a time-honored European tradition of taking their grievances into the streets.
 Two weeks earlier, more than a million workers in France demonstrated against layoffs and the government's handling of the economic crisis, and in the last month alone, French workers took their bosses hostage four times in various labor disputes. When General Motors recently announced huge job cuts worldwide, 15,000 workers demonstrated at the company's German headquarters.
But in the United States, where G.M. plans its biggest layoffs, union members have seemed passive in comparison. They may yell at the television news, but that's about all. Unlike their European counterparts, American workers have largely stayed off the streets, even as unemployment soars and companies cut wages and benefits.
 The country of Mother Jones, John L. Lewis and Walter Reuther certainly has had a rich and sometimes militant history of labor protest -- from the Homestead Steel Works strike against Andrew Carnegie in 1892 to the auto workers' sit-down strikes of the 1930s and the 67-day walkout by 400,000 G.M. workers in 1970. 
 But in recent decades, American workers have increasingly steered clear of such militancy, for reasons that range from fear of having their jobs shipped overseas to their self-image as full-fledged members of the middle class, with all its trappings and aspirations.
 David Kennedy, a Stanford historian and author of ''Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945,'' says that America's individualist streak is a major reason for this reluctance to take to the streets. Citing a 1940 study by the social psychologist Mirra Komarovsky, he said her interviews of the Depression-era unemployed found ''the psychological reaction was to feel guilty and ashamed, that they had failed personally.''
 Taken together, guilt, shame and individualism undercut any impulse to collective action, then as now, Professor Kennedy said. Noting that Americans felt stunned and desperately insecure during the Depression's early years, he wrote: ''What struck most observers, and mystified them, was the eerie docility of the American people, their stoic passivity as the Depression grindstone rolled over them.''
 By the mid-1930s, though, worker protests increased in number and militancy. They were fueled by the then-powerful Communist and Socialist Parties and frustrations over continuing deprivation. Workers also felt that they had President Roosevelt's blessing for collective action because he signed the Wagner Act in 1935, giving workers the right to unionize. 
 ''Remember, at that time, you had Hoovervilles and 25 percent unemployment,'' said Daniel Bell, a professor emeritus of sociology at Harvard. ''Many people felt that capitalism was finished.''
 General strikes paralyzed San Francisco and Minneapolis, and a six-week sit-down strike at a G.M. plant in Flint, Mich., pressured the company into recognizing the United Automobile Workers. In the decade's ugliest showdown, a 1937 strike against Republic Steel in Chicago, 10 protesters were shot to death. That militancy helped build a powerful labor movement, which represented 35 percent of the nation's workers by the 1950s and helped create the world's largest and richest middle class.
 Today, American workers, even those earning $20,000 a year, tend to view themselves as part of an upwardly mobile middle class. In contrast, European workers often still see themselves as proletarians in an enduring class struggle. 
 And American labor leaders, once up-from-the-street rabble-rousers, now often work hand-in-hand with C.E.O.'s to improve corporate competitiveness to protect jobs and pensions, and try to sideline activists who support a hard line. 
 ''You have a general diminution of union leadership that was focused on defending workers by any means necessary,'' said Jerry Tucker, a longtime U.A.W. militant. ''The message from the union leadership nowadays often is, 'We don't have any choice, we have to go down this concessionary road to see if we can do damage control,' '' he said. 
 In the case of the Detroit automakers, a strike might not only hasten their demise but infuriate many Americans who already view auto workers as overpaid. It might also make Washington less receptive to a bailout.
 Labor's aggressiveness has also been sapped by its declining numbers. Unions represent just 7.4 percent of private-sector workers today. 
 Unions have also grown more cautious as management has become more aggressive. A watershed came in 1981 when the nation's air traffic controllers engaged in an illegal strike. President Reagan quickly fired the 11,500 striking traffic controllers, hired replacements and soon got the airports running. After that confrontation, labor's willingness to strike shrank markedly.
 American workers still occasionally vent their anger in protests and strikes. There were demonstrations against the A.I.G. bonuses, for instance, and workers staged a sit-down strike in December when their factory in Chicago was closed. But the numbers tell the story: Last year, American unions engaged in 159 work stoppages, down from 1,352 in 1981, according to the Bureau of National Affairs, a publisher of legal and regulatory news. 
 Michael Kazin, a historian at Georgetown University, said that while demonstrations remain a vital outlet for the European left, for Americans ''the Internet now somehow serves as the main outlet'' with angry blogs and mass e-mailing.
 Left-leaning workers and unions that might be most prone to stage protests during today's economic crisis are often the ones most enthusiastic about President Obama and his efforts to revive the economy, help unions and enact universal health coverage. Instead of taking to the streets last fall to protest the gathering economic crisis under President Bush, many workers and unions campaigned for Mr. Obama.
 Leo Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers, said there were smarter things to do than demonstrating against layoffs -- for instance, pushing Congress and the states to make sure the stimulus plan creates the maximum number of jobs in the United States.
 ''I actually believe that Americans believe in their political system more than workers do in other parts of the world,'' Mr. Gerard said. He said large labor demonstrations are often warranted in Canada and European countries to pressure parliamentary leaders. Demonstrations are less needed in the United States, he said, because often all that is needed is some expert lobbying in Washington to line up the support of a half-dozen senators. 
 Professor Kennedy saw another reason that today's young workers and young people were protesting less than in decades past. ''This generation,'' he said, has '' found more effective ways to change the world. It's signed up for political campaigns, and it's not waiting for things to get so desperate that they feel forced to take to the streets.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEM: French workers in Marseille protest the government's economic policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLAUME HORCAJUELO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 US: The scene at a Flint, Mich., factory during a strike against G.M. in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HISTORY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); WRITERS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JOHN P JONES III (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



216 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Housing Affordability Improves

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY, there is happy news about the residential market in springtime -- always its busiest season. Here is this year's bulletin: Home prices have declined so much in the state that average buyers can actually afford to buy houses (if they can get a mortgages, of course).
 Also, as of the latest statewide report from the Otteau Valuation Group, there were six towns with less than six months' worth of unsold inventory. (But there were also six others with enough houses on the market that it would take 99 months -- more than eight years -- to sell them all at the current pace.) 
These tidings may seem underwhelming in their gladness, but they are the most salutary available as prices continue to slide and the inventory of houses for sale blips upward this season, according to the market trend analyst Jeffrey G. Otteau. 
 House prices right now are descending at the rate of about a percentage point a month, according to Mr. Otteau, whose company is based in New Brunswick. At seminars that he conducted for brokers in March, Mr. Otteau predicted an additional nine point drop in prices by the end of the year, and no likely upturn until 2010.
 At this point, the so-called housing affordability index is the only measure showing improvement, by Mr. Otteau's computations, which are based on sales contract data. The index, which compares median income with the median housing price, recently shifted in home buyers' collective favor, he said.
 Back in 2000, the index was pegged at 122 percent, meaning a buyer with the median income earned 22 percent more than needed to own and maintain the median-priced home. This assumes that housing costs 30 percent of income, which is a standard assumption, Mr. Otteau explained in a recent telephone interview.
 By 2005, when housing prices were reaching their peak, the median buyer could afford only 92 percent of the cost of owning the median home, he said, and by 2006, it was only 81 percent.
 In 2007, when prices fell, ''affordability'' was back up to 87 percent, and by June 2008, housing was again 100 percent ''affordable,'' under the formula.
 Now, Mr. Otteau said, the market has ''overcorrected,'' and this will continue. The index is 107 percent and rising. 
 He also suggested that towns that have commuter rail stations -- Montclair, for instance, has three -- continue to be in the best position to attract buyers, once the economy improves and the New York metropolitan area stops ''leaking jobs.''
 ''Housing is very affordable, and interest rates are still low,'' he said. ''The pace of sales is starting to rise a little bit, but over all, we predict the spring selling season will show very modest gains'' in terms of the number of contracts. 
 Meanwhile, several real estate brokers in northern New Jersey noted that the number of homes on the market was rising again, although not as fast as in a ''normal'' spring.
 For example in Millburn Township, which includes Short Hills, Karen Eastman Bigos, a broker with the Towne Realty Group, said there were 117 homes for sale as of March 21, the first full day of spring. ''We are seeing a little buzz'' of buyer interest, she said. ''Several homes are getting offers, even multiple offers -- but prices are not high.''
 Ms. Bigos said the picture was similar in Summit, where there were 136 homes listed for sale. Livingston had 151 homes; South Orange, 124 homes; Maplewood, 145; and Chatham, 148.
 Of those communities, Millburn had the smallest inventory of homes on the market for a month or more. Its unsold inventory would take six months to sell at the current pace if no other homes were added to the market, according to Otteau statistics.
 In Montclair, Julie Salmon, an agent with Coldwell Banker, said that there were more properties on the market in February and March than during those months a year ago but that fewer contracts had been signed. At the end of March, there were 54 houses for sale.
 A colleague, Linda Grotenstein, said she perceived the market as ''wild and crazy.'' She added: ''Some houses are on the market for a few weeks, and then there is a flurry of activity and bids. Every week is different.''
 Based on the most recent Otteau market report, the six communities in the state with the shortest time frames to sell their inventories -- and therefore the healthiest markets -- were Midland Park, Fanwood, Dumont, Boonton, Hanover and New Providence. Of those towns, all but Dumont and Hanover have train stations.
 The six communities with the 99-month inventories are Alpine, Garfield, Oradell, Avalon, Lavalette and Seaside Heights. They are among the most affluent communities in New Jersey, the nation's second-wealthiest state, Mr. Otteau noted. ''This is understandable,'' he added, ''because homes that are less affordable, those priced above $1 million, are the ones sitting on the market the longest.''
 Statewide, there is a 42-month inventory of homes priced above $1 million; for listings at $2 million or more, there is an 84-month (seven-year) supply, he said.
 In his recent presentations for subscribing real estate professionals, Mr. Otteau pointed out that in many communities home prices still had not dipped nearly as much as they gained during the real estate boom years. 
 For example, the Otteau company reported that in Holmdel Township in Monmouth County, where home prices fell 3.98 percent in the last year alone, the median sale price remains 8.3 percent above where it was five years ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAIL LINK: Two houses for sale in New Providence, one of six communities with the healthiest markets, a fact that a recent analysis ascribes in part to the presence of commuter rail stations.
 This home and the one below are both for sale in New Providence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (76%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); INTERVIEWS (62%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2009



217 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Lessons on How to Guzzle Less, From Europe and Japan

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The sight of the presidential limo (a Cadillac known as ''The Beast'') performing a five-point turn last week in front of 10 Downing Street in London made it glaringly obvious why Europeans have come to prefer smaller cars that fit through their medieval cities. It may also symbolize how hard it will be for America to turn a corner on its energy policies.
 Like his predecessors, President Obama has vowed to reduce the nation's dependence on oil, but in his case, he has wasted little time in signaling his determination to get it done.
 Within his first weeks in office, he ordered regulators to set stricter fuel efficiency standards for automobiles. And last week, he kicked out General Motors' longtime boss and demanded radical changes from the automaker, including better fuel mileage from its cars, in exchange for more bailout money. Chrysler was told to merge with Fiat, the Italian auto company and the maker of the shoebox-sized Cinquecento, or lose taxpayer help. 
 The nation may well succeed in curbing its gluttonous ways this time. But it is going to require more than just fuel-efficient cars. As the president moves forward, he may find important lessons in the experiences of Europe and Japan.
 Public transportation in those countries, including high-speed bullet trains, outshines anything found in most American cities. Cars are lighter and smaller. And, at least in Europe, more people now buy diesel-powered cars, which get better mileage per gallon at less cost than gasoline.
 Governments were able to steer drivers to diesel by taxing it at a lower rate than gasoline. But both fuels are taxed much more heavily in Europe than they are in the United States, which points to another lesson: higher fuel taxes reduce consumption. 
 The bottom line has been this: Oil use in the United States rose by over 20 percent between 1973 and 2007. Germany and France both cut their oil demand by 25 percent over the past 25 years. Japanese demand has not risen. 
 ''Low prices are a curse,'' said Lee Schipper, a transportation expert at Stanford University. ''I believe that carbon, oil and energy security are underpriced. It makes public policy sense to do something akin to boosting the price.''
 Oil has effectively been squeezed out of the American economy in all but the transportation sector, where there are no readily available alternatives. Most of the oil consumed each day in the United States is used as gasoline in cars, diesel in trucks, and jet fuel in planes.
 Recent history suggests that Americans, too, can change their oil consuming habits, with the right incentives. 
 As gasoline prices surged in the last two years, more and more drivers left their cars at home and took public transportation. Ridership on trains and buses has risen to a 52-year high, according to the American Public Transportation Association, while the total number of miles driven on the nation's highways has fallen for 13 straight months. 
 Hybrids also proved to be popular. In 2007, Toyota's hybrid car, the Prius, outsold the Ford Explorer, the best-selling sport utility vehicle for more than a decade. Last year, cars in general outsold trucks and S.U.V.'s for the first time since 1999. 
 Yet even as gasoline reached a peak of $4 a gallon last summer, Americans were getting a bargain compared with every other industrialized country. In Europe, where taxes are highest, gas prices ranged from $7 to $10 a gallon. Drivers grumbled, but governments resisted lowering taxes. (Europeans have long accepted higher taxes in exchange for higher levels of social services and government-sponsored health benefits.)
 Now that gasoline prices have again fallen to around $2 a gallon in the United States, many analysts believe the recent drop in oil demand could be reversed. Some experts suggest that the best way to avoid this is for the government to adopt a minimum tax on gasoline that would prevent prices from dropping below a certain level -- say $2.50 or $3 a gallon. 
 Despite the energy shocks of the 1970s and 1980s, cars in the United States became bigger and more powerful; suburbs grew larger and more distant. Mass transit was neglected. Consumption reached a high of 20.8 million barrels a day in 2005. When the economy went into a tailspin last year, demand slumped by 6 percent, its steepest drop since 1980. It is expected to fall again this year.
 Still, there is no certainty that consumption can be kept down. Demand fell three times in the past four decades because of oil shocks and recessions, only to recover each time because of low prices and the lack of a consistent energy policy. This time, carmakers, at least, have seen the wind change: most now say they will have an electric car or a plug-in hybrid on sale within a few years.
 Yet the hurdles remain high. Unlike in Japan and Europe, the population in the United States is expected to keep growing, rising to 400 million by 2050, from 300 million today. This means energy use will need to be a third more efficient -- or be reduced by a third -- just for consumption to remain flat. 
 Higher taxes aren't the only remedy. In Japan, an obsessive attention to efficiency and large investments in public transportation helped keep a lid on consumption, said Akihiko Hoshi, the deputy director at Japan's Ministry of Transportation. ''It's a policy issue,'' he in an interview in Tokyo earlier this year. 
 ''The Japanese recognize that we don't have much natural resources,'' he said. ''That comes from our experiences from the oil shocks, and that was the turning point when we started to think about efficiency.''
 Congress has mandated that fuel efficiency for cars reach at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020. But even then, the United States will lag both Europe and Japan, which have already reached that level, and have set more ambitious goals of close to 50 miles per gallon for the next decade. 
 Still, environmental groups and the oil industry both foresee oil demand in the United States dropping in the next 20 years. Planners at Exxon Mobil say that demand will fall by almost a fifth by 2030. Google, which uses great amounts of energy to power its servers and has become a significant voice on energy issues, argues that demand could be cut more sharply with ''realistic steps'' that include higher fuel efficiency, advanced biofuels, growth in urban transit systems, and increased use of electric vehicles. 
 ''Europe and Japan are great examples that have worked and that lay a path that we can follow,'' said Dan W. Reicher, who heads Google's energy program. ''But the on-again, off-again nature of U.S. policy has really hurt the push for greater fuel economy in our country.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: US: On the highway, the Dodge Journey gets 25 miles per gallon.
 THEM: Depending on the engine, the Fiat 500 can get more than 50 miles per gallon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIAT AUTO PRESS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); FUEL TAX (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CITIES (72%); TRAINS (70%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (70%); JET FUEL (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



218 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Even Rick Wagoner's Firing Got Lousy Mileage

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
EVEN among pitchfork-bearing populists, there was scant satisfaction when the White House sent the C.E.O. of General Motors to the guillotine. 
 Sure, Rick Wagoner deserved his fate. He did too little too late to save an iconic American institution from devolving into a government charity case. He embraced the Hummer. G.M.'s share price fell from above $70 to under $3 on his watch. Yet few disputed the judgment of the Michigan governor, Jennifer Granholm, that Wagoner was a ''sacrificial lamb,'' a symbolic concession to public rage ordered by a president who had to look tough after being blindsided by the A.I.G. bonuses. Detroit's chief executive had to be beheaded so that the masters of the universe at the top of Wall Street's bailed-out behemoths might survive.
 On this point even the left and the right could agree. The union leader Andy Stern publicly wondered why the administration didn't also dethrone Ken Lewis of Bank of America. Thaddeus McCotter, a conservative Republican congressman from suburban Detroit, asked, ''When will the Wall Street C.E.O.'s receiving TARP funds summon the honor to resign? Will this White House ever bother to raise the issue?'' 
 When reporters did raise the issue of a double standard to the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, they got double talk: ''I don't have anything specific on Bank of America.''
 But even as that unanswered question hangs in the air, a more revealing inquiry might be this: Why is there any sympathy whatsoever for a Detroit C.E.O. who helped wreck his company, ruined investors and cost thousands of hard-working underlings their jobs, when there is no mercy for those who did the same on Wall Street? Might we, too, have a double standard? Could we still be in denial of the reality that greed and irresponsibility were not an exclusive Wall Street franchise during our national bender?
 Perhaps we're tempted to give Detroit a pass because it still summons nostalgic memories of ''American Graffiti,'' ''Little Deuce Coupe'' and certain things we used to do in the back seat of a Chevy. Wall Street and bankers are the un-aphrodisiac: ''Bonfire of the Vanities,'' Old Man Potter of ''It's a Wonderful Life'' and, of course, Gordon Gekko of Oliver Stone's ''Wall Street.'' 
 Though Gekko's most famous line is ''Greed is good,'' even more emblematic is his defiant summation of his brand of capitalism: ''I create nothing. I own.'' At least Wagoner, unlike the sultans of finance, created cars, clunkers though they often were. The politically conservative Nashville star John Rich draws this moral distinction in his powerful new hit single ''Shuttin' Detroit Down.'' Motor City is ''the real world,'' he sings, unlike those big shots ''living it up on Wall Street in that New York City town.''
 But this romantic view of the auto industry is a sentimental illusion. Some of Wall Street's exact failings also capsized G.M.: the hard sell of alluring but junky products, crony capitalism, reckless gambling, unregulated accounting sleights of hand. Only if we accept the full extent to which the bubble virus spread beyond that New York City town can we grasp the radical treatment President Obama must administer to restore the nation to health.
 The parallels between G.M. and the likes of Citigroup are uncanny. Much as bloated financial institutions gorged on mortgage-backed derivatives even when the underlying fundamentals made no rational sense, so G.M. doubled down on sure-to-be obsolete S.U.V.'s and trucks to serve a market transitorily enthralled by them. Much as the housing boom's collapse left the get-rich-quick holders of AAA-rated mortgage derivatives with worthless paper, so the oil price spike left consumers trapped with self-indulgent, wealth-depleting gas guzzlers. In both instances, the customers were not entirely innocent. 
 As the banks peddled their risky financial products in countries like Iceland when the American market was saturated, so Wagoner looked to South America and Russia to gobble up the deficient vehicles Americans increasingly rejected. G.M. further emulated Wall Street by creatively finessing its balance sheets, moving its health care liabilities for retirees off its books (into a trust) to cosmetically enhance its appearance of fiscal health. It's no surprise that members of G.M.'s often-compliant board -- also now slated for overhaul by the White House -- served as well on boards at Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and SunTrust Banks (another recipient of a multibillion-dollar government bailout). 
 Perhaps the most illuminating Detroit/Wall Street parallel of all is GMAC, the G.M. financial affiliate whose phantom profits were used to help hedge the parent company's losses when its share of the car market plummeted. GMAC was yet another outfit that placed risky bets on the housing bubble until it burst, taking G.M.'s bottom line down with it. 
 As if to confirm that much of our so-called legitimate financial world has been six degrees of separation from Bernie Madoff, GMAC's chairman was none other than J. Ezra Merkin. In addition to presiding over losses of nearly $8 billion at GMAC, Merkin had a separate investment management business that threw away another $2 billion by feeding other people's money (including the endowments at N.Y.U. and Yeshiva University) into Madoff's Ponzi scheme.
 Nice as it might be to believe that Wagoner was done in only by his unreconstructed retro faith in antiquated cars and his lethargic management of the various G.M. restructurings, he was part of this larger financial culture. And like bailed-out Wall Street executives, he walked away with a sizable reward for his failure: $23 million. It may not match the takes accrued by non-Detroit tycoons who pocketed profits from the illusory bubble before shareholders and employees were wiped out -- Charles Prince and Robert Rubin of Citi, Joseph Cassano of A.I.G., Angelo Mozilo of Countrywide, Stanley O'Neal of Merrill Lynch -- but only by that measure is he less culpable than they are.
 Those on Wall Street who took the money and ran are beyond the reach of the guillotine. Most of their successors are too new to their jobs to merit beheading; executives like Edward Liddy of A.I.G. and Vikram Pandit of Citi, whatever their previous performance, have been in their current positions only since disaster struck. (This does not apply to Lewis of Bank of America, whose eight-year tenure nearly matches Wagoner's nine years at the top of G.M.) 
 But facts matter little when set against the public anger at corporate America in general and banks in particular. The latest ABC News/Washington Post poll found that 80 percent of the country blames banks for the financial crisis -- a percentage even larger than that blaming George W. Bush (70 percent). To be less popular than our departed president is a Herculean feat heretofore achieved only by Dick Cheney.
 The cheering news in this poll is that Barack Obama remains hugely popular, with a 66 percent approval rating that has surely gone up since, boosted last week by his and Michelle Obama's beguiling representation of America abroad. It doesn't hurt that the president's political opponents back home are laughable. Last month Republicans in Congress offered a budget plan with no numbers. Then they belatedly fleshed it out by calling for a nonsensical spending freeze at a time when desperate Americans need every last federal safety net they can grab. 
 The only group more out of touch remains bailed-out Wall Streeters. ''The era of this high living, this is over now,'' said Ben Bernanke on ''60 Minutes'' last month. For whom? Witness the former A.I.G. executive who recently complained on the Times Op-Ed page about being unfairly tarred for corporate outrages he didn't commit. He didn't seem to understand that his (to his mind) unfairly maligned bonus -- $742,006.40 (net) -- would have amounted to $0 had American taxpayers not ponied up more than $170 billion to keep A.I.G. from dying.
 Such tone-deaf antics by entitled Wall Streeters will keep coming. As we hope Obama learned from his narrow escape from the A.I.G. bonus firestorm, it's imperative he stays clear of these conflagrations. Timothy Geithner's latest bank-rescue plan has not remotely addressed fears that the fix is in for the same well-connected banking crowd that created the mess. The plan's transparency -- let alone its effectiveness -- will be essential to deflecting those suspicions.
 But in the unsatisfying aftermath of Rick Wagoner's demise, we must rid ourselves of the illusion that there's a rigid separation between Wall Street and what John Rich calls ''the real world.'' Any citizen or business that overspent or overborrowed in the bubble subscribed to its reckless culture. That culture has crumbled everywhere now, and a new economic order will have to rise from its ruins. 
 This is what Obama is talking about when he insists on pushing for change simultaneously on so many fronts -- green jobs, health care, education, new financial regulation, infrastructure spending and all the rest. As has been true since he promised ''a new foundation for growth'' at his inauguration, the most important question is not whether he will try to do too much at once but whether he will and can do enough. Change is hard. Change is traumatic. Sending a juicy C.E.O. -- or six -- to the gallows is at most a crowd-pleasing opening act to the heavy lifting of reform and rebuilding we still await.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (90%); THADDEUS G MCCOTTER (58%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



219 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: In a Reversal, Corzine Faces Labor's Wrath

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN A. McNICHOL

DATELINE: Trenton 

 BODY:
 A week ago, when Gov. Jon S. Corzine tried to address union protesters outside an Ocean County Democratic Committee meeting in Toms River, he was shouted down and accused of a ''sneak attack'' on workers' rights. Earlier in the week, four union officers were arrested in Trenton after a scuffle with state troopers at a New Jersey Civil Service Commission hearing.
 And on Thursday, public employees staged rallies at 15 locations throughout the state. 
 The protests were against Mr. Corzine's plan to freeze wages and order unpaid furloughs for public employees to help stem a hemorrhaging state budget.
 Being booed by union members is not a familiar situation for the governor, who is more accustomed to criticism for being too friendly with state employees and their unions. Critics refer to his ''Norma Rae moment,'' when he appeared, about three years ago, at a State House rally of public employee union members and pledged support for their cause. Before taking office, Mr. Corzine dated Carla Katz, a state workers' union officer at the time.
 But he has been taunted and heckled around union gatherings in the last few weeks, after he threatened to lay off up to 7,000 state workers unless the unions agreed to give back the 3.5 percent raise that is due on July 1 and to take 14 unpaid furlough days by June 30, 2010. Five unions have challenged Mr. Corzine's furlough plan in court.
 ''It was out of character,'' Hetty Rosenstein, New Jersey director of the Communications Workers of America, the largest state workers' union, said of Mr. Corzine's actions. ''It's nothing we would expect from our friends and anyone who believes in collective bargaining.''
 Republican leaders said Mr. Corzine was stuck in what is essentially a no-win situation.
 ''It's really a sword that's cutting both ways,'' said Tom Wilson, the Republican state chairman. ''He's getting no credit with the public, who think he's beholden to the state's public employees. On the other side of the sword are the public employees, who are simply insatiable. He's in a bad place here.'' 
 Larry J. Sabato, director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics and a longtime observer of New Jersey politics, said the unrest among union members could harm Mr. Corzine's re-election prospects in November. 
 ''It's not good ever for a Democratic governor to be having real deep problems with organized labor,'' he said. ''They provide so much of the manpower and money for Democratic campaigns. The question is, if they endorse Corzine, will they work hard for him?'' 
 The governor acknowledges labor's displeasure, but says he is forced to act as the state faces a $3.2 billion budget deficit. He has already distributed department-by-department plans for putting two unpaid furlough days into effect by June 30 -- a move he is counting on to save about $35 million, but one that the unions contend will save less than half that amount.
 Speaking to reporters on Tuesday at a bill signing in New Brunswick, Mr. Corzine tried to put his relationship with the unions into perspective. 
 ''I would suspect the arguments that I was too close before were exaggerated,'' he said. ''And I think it is hardly anti-union to try to maintain people's jobs, even if it is at lower economic benefit. The reality is unprecedented economic times, which require unprecedented responses.'' 
 Martin Mosen, a Communications Workers of America shop steward and Environmental Protection Department employee who attended one of the rallies last week, said the furlough plan ''is wrong on so many different levels it's impossible to count them all.'' But he said he and other union members would most likely reluctantly support Mr. Corzine in November over a Republican who would probably be bent on slashing the state payroll. 
 ''We're not stupid,'' Mr. Mosen said as scores of union members gathered for a meeting of Local 1034 in Trenton on Tuesday. ''We're not going to cut off our noses to spite our faces.'' 
 Steve Lonegan, who, along with former United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie is one of Mr. Corzine's prospective Republican challengers, said he doubted the union members' rage means they will vote against him in November.
 ''They'll battle this one out, then they'll all come back together again,'' he said. ''Which is really not healthy for the state. This is only beneficial to the union leaders and the political cartel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DISPLEASURE: Union members protested outside West Orange High, where the governor spoke Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ARRESTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%); THOMAS J WILSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



220 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Would Get Few Troops From NATO

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and HELENE COOPER; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from Strasbourg.

DATELINE: STRASBOURG, France 

 BODY:
With protesters raging outside, NATO leaders on Saturday gave a tepid troop commitment to President Obama's escalating campaign in Afghanistan, mostly committing soldiers only to a temporary security duty.
 To a global audience concerned with an exit strategy, Mr. Obama used his most explicit language yet in detailing a narrowed war mission: emphasizing intense action against Al Qaeda even above instilling Western democracy and rights sensibilities.
 ''We want to do everything we can to encourage and promote rule of law, human rights, the education of women and girls in Afghanistan, economic development, infrastructure development,'' he said. ''But I also want people to understand that the first reason we are there is to root out Al Qaeda, so that they cannot attack members of the alliance.''
 Answering a reporter's question about whether the troop escalation would be contingent on whether the Afghan government rescinded a proposed family law that the United Nations has likened to legalizing rape within marriage , Mr. Obama replied that the law should not deter the United States from its military goal. 
 ''I think this law is abhorrent. Certainly the views of this administration have been and will be communicated to the Karzai government,'' he said. But he added, repeating for emphasis: ''I want everybody to understand that our focus is to defeat Al Qaeda.''
 For a NATO summit meeting marking the 60th anniversary of the alliance and intended to be without drama, the event has been fractious both inside the hall and outside it. 
 Thousands of protesters clashed with the riot police and set a hotel and a border post on fire in Strasbourg during the session. And although NATO leaders finally reached an agreement on a new secretary general -- the Danish prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, 56 -- the deal came only after days of hard negotiations to overcome Turkey's opposition. 
 The Afghan war, too, remained a dividing line for alliance leaders. Despite a glowing reception and widespread praise for Mr. Obama's style and aims, his calls for a more lasting European troop increase for Afghanistan were politely brushed aside, as they had been in negotiations leading up to the meeting.
 As expected, European allies agreed to provide up to 5,000 new troops for Afghanistan, the White House said Saturday. But 3,000 of them are to be deployed only temporarily to provide security for the August elections in Afghanistan. 
 A further 1,400 to 2,000 soldiers will be sent to form embedded training teams for the Afghan Army and the police.
 Mr. Obama is raising the number of American troops this year to about 68,000 from the current 38,000, which will significantly Americanize the war. The new strategy, which the Europeans have pressed for, is aimed at creating larger and better-trained Afghan security forces that can defend the country and allow the West to leave. 
 Much of Mr. Obama's Afghanistan strategy review, which he formally presented to NATO leaders this weekend, reflects the view of a number of administration officials, particularly Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., that the United States should set limited, achievable goals in Afghanistan.
 ''No one will say this publicly, but the true fact is that we are all talking about our exit strategy from Afghanistan,'' a senior European diplomat said Saturday. ''We are getting out. It may take a couple of years, but we are all looking to get out.'' He spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules.
 For Mr. Obama, in many ways, the two months since he took office have been a reality check on the difference between Europe's vocal support and action. 
 In January, Obama administration officials expressed optimism that they would receive strong backing from European allies on a large number of additional troops for Afghanistan.
 In February, Mr. Biden, appearing at the Munich Security Conference, said the administration was introducing a ''more for more'' strategy, by which it would give Europe more of what it wanted, by promising to shut the military prison at Guantanamo Bay and not to engage in torture. 
 In return, Mr. Biden said, the United States would expect more from Europe. 
 The Europeans have given more, but not much, and largely limited to the period around the August election. Germany said it would send an additional 600 troops. Spain offered 600; Britain, 900. European nations also offered more financing, promising about $100 million more to support the training mission and an additional $500 million in humanitarian aid.
 Before the NATO meeting on Saturday, leaders walked across a sweeping bridge over the Rhine between Germany and France to symbolize Europe's unity. But soon after, masked protesters were battling police officers from both countries on another bridge nearby, called the Bridge of Europe, or Pont de l'Europe.
 The tensions were reflected inside the meeting hall as well. And NATO leaders struggled to choose the alliance's new secretary general, driving negotiations on Saturday hours past schedule.
 NATO works by consensus, and the European-favored candidacy of Mr. Rasmussen was publicly opposed by Turkey. 
 Turkey, NATO's only Muslim country, said that Mr. Rasmussen was insensitive to Muslim concerns during the scandal over the Danish newspapers' publication in 2005 of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, and that while NATO was fighting in Muslim Afghanistan, the symbolism would be all wrong.
 Mr. Rasmussen has also said he does not think Turkey will ever become a full member of the European Union.
 Efforts to sway Turkish officials over the leaders' lavish dinner Friday at a casino in Baden-Baden, Germany, failed, as did a telephone call by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
 But behind closed doors, the deal was done. According to senior European diplomats, Turkey was given at least two NATO jobs, including a deputy to the deputy secretary general, who is an Italian.
 Turkey was also promised that two blocked chapters of its accession agreement to join the European Union would move forward, and that Mr. Rasmussen would publicly address the concerns of the Muslim world about his response on the cartoons, possibly as soon as Monday.
 Mr. Obama was said to be important to the Turkish decision to concede, meeting with President Abdullah Gul of Turkey and Mr. Rasmussen for an hour before the main session.
 Saturday's meeting began with niceties, with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France confirming his country's return to full membership in NATO, and with President Obama welcoming Albania and Croatia to the alliance. Mr. Obama added that he expected Macedonia to join soon and that NATO's door remained open to other countries.
 But he made no specific mention of Georgia and Ukraine, whose increasingly distant accession to NATO has contributed to a rift in Russia's relations with the West. At last year's NATO meeting in Romania, President George W. Bush pushed hard for membership for Georgia and Ukraine, but he was rebuffed by European leaders. 
 While the United States has since then given lip service to continued support for NATO membership for Georgia and Ukraine, Obama administration officials have privately indicated that they do not plan to put membership for those two countries at the top of the American agenda.
 ''The door to membership will remain open for other countries that meet NATO's standards and can make a meaningful contribution to allied security,'' Mr. Obama said.
 In DNA, the Strasbourg newspaper, Jean-Claude Kiefer wrote: ''More than his charisma, it is the style of Barack Obama that seduces Europeans. His speech ignores the 'wooden tongue,' this sad political specialty of Old Europe, and goes always, without detours, without populist or tortured formulas, to the essential.''
 Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel, the hosts, praised Mr. Obama. ''We are very pleased to work with him,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''We trust him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of Denmark, the next NATO secretary general.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HORACIO VILLALOBOS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); FAMILY (70%); RIOTS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); FAMILY LAW (68%); MARRIAGE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (84%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



221 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: An Endless Match Over a Golf Course

BYLINE: By WENDY CARLSON

DATELINE: NORFOLK 

 BODY:
 THE ground is still frozen on the mountaintop in northwest Connecticut where the developer Roland W. Betts envisions building a world-class, $20-million, 18-hole golf course. 
 Mr. Betts, 62, the developer of Manhattan's Chelsea Piers, has spent seven years battling local opposition and facing a lengthy permit process in trying to build the Yale Farm Golf Club on part of 780 acres of former farmland in Norfolk and Canaan. Yet he remains undeterred, even in an economic downturn that has taken its toll on the golf industry nationwide, resulting in numerous closings and bankruptcies, as well declining memberships. 
 Last year, 72 new courses opened around the country, the fewest in two decades, according to Joe Beditz, the president of the National Golf Foundation in Jupiter, Fla.
 At least three private courses in Connecticut were listed on the market and, recently, the Woodbridge Country Club, founded in 1948, narrowly escaped foreclosure. With the start of the new golfing season, many of the state's 200 public and private courses are brainstorming for ways to hang on to members and to find incentives to recruit new ones. 
 The most exclusive clubs, those with six-figure membership fees like the one Mr. Betts and his partners want to build, are especially feeling the chill. ''We've been getting many calls from players who are looking to 'downsize' from their private membership,'' said Maria Sanyshyn, general manager of the Richter Park Golf Course in Danbury, one of the country's top-rated 18-hole public courses. In response, Richter created a nonresident season's pass that comes with the same privileges as a resident's pass. 
 At the Bull's Bridge Golf Club in South Kent, the membership director, Ted Kohler, hopes to increase revenue by offering alternatives, including a ''motivational'' one-year membership. ''It's something we might not have done otherwise,'' he said. 
 Some residential golf communities are advertising deep reductions for first-time members; others are relaxing membership caps.
 Mr. Betts is not the only one willing to take a chance on the golf industry during these tough economic times.
 The Rolling Hills Country Club, a private member-owned course in Wilton, broke ground in September on a $15 million, 40,000-square-foot clubhouse. ''The timing couldn't be helped,'' said the general manager, Michael Catanzaro. ''We had signed contracts, and we were all pretty positive it was the right thing to do.''
 To attract new members, the club is offering discounted initiation fees for those joining before July, when building is expected to be completed. For now, players tee off with the sounds of construction clanging in the background.
 Mr. Betts, a longtime friend of former President George W. Bush, with whom he was a co-owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team, says he is determined to open the Yale Farm Golf Club. 
 But the project has met with complications in obtaining building permits, and, most significantly, is facing a challenge from residents who say that the course will disturb wildlife in the area and put too much of a strain on water supplies.
 ''It's been a battle,'' said Mr. Betts, an avid golfer who has owned a weekend home in Canaan for 30 years. ''If I'd known it would be such a long process, I'd have second thoughts. This was supposed to be fun.''
 It's been far from that. In Norfolk, a town often called the ''icebox'' of Connecticut for its high elevation and bone-chilling winters, opposition to the project is not likely to thaw anytime soon.
 The largely undeveloped region in Litchfield County, which consists of vast tracts of federal- and state-protected forestland, has been a longtime refuge for weekenders from New York, some of whom have banded together, hiring lawyers and environmental experts, to defeat the proposal. Opponents argue that the development would particularly threaten native brook trout. They also say that irrigating the course, at a rate of 150,000 gallons a day, would deplete the water supply of neighboring households. 
 Mr. Betts said the project is environmentally sound and designed to maintain the beauty of the landscape. For now, neither side is willing to give up. 
 ''Sure, we're tired,'' said Kirk Mayland, the director of the Eastern Water Project of Trout Unlimited, a national conservation organization protecting cold-water fish species. 
 ''I've gotten married and had a child since this began. But we're not giving up, either,'' said Mr. Mayland, who has helped mobilize the local anti-golf-course efforts.
 The project, beset by lawsuits and a protracted permit process for the last few years, has appeared to have been in hibernation. 
 Both sides have hired environmental experts to determine whether the property is inhabited by bog turtles, a federally endangered species, causing further delays. Their findings have been contradictory.
 However, in January the commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Protection granted ''tentative'' approval for two water impact permits critical to the project.
 Opponents were quick to rally against the decision, garnering support from other agencies, including the Housatonic Valley Association, whose board of directors includes celebrities like the designer Diane von Furstenberg and the actress Christine Baranski, and the lobbying group Connecticut Fund for the Environment. More recently, the state attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, issued public comments against the decision.
 The project originally included plans for residential housing -- up to 51 luxury homes. Mr. Betts eventually withdrew those plans, but Mr. Blumenthal said that the department must consider future development because it ''clearly remains a part of the developer's plans.'' The mountaintop property, with stunning views of the Berkshires, borders the 110-acre Campbell Falls State Park Reserve and runs through two pristine trout streams, ''It isn't just a gem of the northwest corner, it's a statewide treasure,'' Mr. Blumenthal said.
 ''My hope is that the economic and environmental considerations would persuade Mr. Betts to leave the project,'' he said.
 That sentiment is echoed by one the most vigorous opponents, Scott Asen, 64, a private investor from New York who has a weekend home in Canaan on 70 acres abutting the site of the proposed course. ''It doesn't make economic sense -- it didn't then and it makes less sense now,'' Mr. Asen said. ''But that's not why the D.E.P. should turn it down. The issue is wildlife and water.''
 Mr. Betts shrugs off the notion of abandoning plans merely because the economy is weak. 
 ''I still think it's a good project,'' he said. 
 The Department of Environmental Protection has scheduled a May 12 public hearing in Canaan, and the commissioner is expected to render a final decision after that. If permits are denied, the partnership will look for another use for the property, Mr. Betts said. 
 ''I can promise you, it won't return to a gentleman farm,'' he said.
 But if all necessary permits are secured and go unchallenged -- which opponents say is unlikely -- construction would begin in November, Mr. Betts said, with the course taking two years to complete, presumably long enough for the economy and the golfing industry to get its swing back. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UP TO PAR: As the warmer weather arrives and courses like the Richter Park Golf Course in Danbury, above and below, reopen, the golf industry finds itself grappling with the recession.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 FIELD OF DREAMS: Mountaintop farmland in Norfok and Canaan, above, is the subject of a protracted fight over development of the Yale Farm Golf Club. At left, Brad Gerla teeing off at the Rolling Hills Country Club in Wilton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (94%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



222 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: In Louisiana, a Test Case In Using Huge Federal Aid

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Years before Washington spent $787 billion on a national stimulus bill, it staged an unintended trial run in Louisiana, a huge injection of some $51 billion for which historians find few, if any, precedents in a single state.
 The experiment is still playing out, but some indicators suggest that what occurred in Louisiana -- dumping a large amount of reconstruction money into a confined space in the three and a half years since Hurricane Katrina -- has had a positive outcome. The state's unemployment rate of 5.7 percent in February was considerably below the national average of 8.1 percent, and it was the only state to see a drop in unemployment from December to January. It was also the only state with an increase in non-farm employment in February. 
 State economists specifically mention what one called ''the ongoing building boom'' from federal dollars as a main reason for the numbers. Largely a result of the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, construction projects have not dried up as they have elsewhere, and a few can even be seen in downtown New Orleans. 
 Construction has ''really hung in there and done very well,'' said Loren Scott, an emeritus professor of economics at Louisiana State University. ''In most states construction is way down, but in ours it has been up.'' The relatively low unemployment rate in Louisiana ''tells you that the stimulus can have an effect,'' Mr. Scott said. 
 However, the state's Republican governor, Bobby Jindal, has positioned himself as a leading voice against the new stimulus bill, objecting to federal intervention in a state's economy. He has threatened to reject $98 million in stimulus money intended to help Louisiana's unemployed, echoing other Southern and Western governors who have turned such rejections into a conservative rallying cry. 
 But even as Mr. Jindal has criticized the stimulus bill, his own subordinates have continued to request money from Washington, notably in replacing Charity Hospital, which for generations served the poor in downtown New Orleans. State health officials, disregarding restoration work at Charity done in the months immediately after Hurricane Katrina, say they need a brand-new hospital and an additional $500 million; the Federal Emergency Management Agency has balked and is offering only $150 million. 
 Mr. Jindal amplified his anti-government-spending theme in a speech last month at the National Republican Congressional Committee dinner in Washington, saying Democrats believe that ''the historic spending and expansion of government'' is the way out of the economic crisis. 
 ''They honestly believe that,'' he said. ''Conversely, we honestly believe that they are completely wrong, and that their path will have dire consequences for not only this time, but also for the future of America.''
 In Louisiana, however, the consequences have hardly been dire -- just the opposite, in fact. One of the governor's leading aides, the state's recovery director, Paul Rainwater, praised the federal relief effort in Louisiana in recent remarks to Congress, the day after his boss scorned federal help on national television in the Republican Party's response to President Obama's first address to Congress. 
 ''No other state in the nation has been blessed with such generosity from Congress and the American people,'' Mr. Rainwater said. 
 Referring to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, a principal conduit for the aid that has flowed here, he said that ''Louisiana is FEMA's biggest 'customer,' so to speak, and the state's Office of Facility Planning and Control is the largest single public-assistance applicant in American history.''
 In the preceding 18 months, some $25 million a week had been given out in the public-assistance program, which helps local governments rebuild vital facilities, among other functions. 
 Over all, Mr. Rainwater said in an interview, $10 million a day was spent in the state in 2008, enough to draw contractors from around the country. In the last two weeks alone, he said, the state helped open six new apartment complexes, five of them in New Orleans.
 ''You take 10 million a day you didn't have otherwise in your general fund, you can generate a lot of energy in your economy,'' he said.
 Because of that history, the governor's anti-stimulus stance -- as well as his threat to reject the stimulus package's supplemental unemployment aid as an unwarranted burden on business interests -- has provoked some skepticism and incomprehension here. 
 ''The feedback I get is, it's no longer an issue of big government vs. little,'' said State Senator Eric LaFleur, a Democrat who wants to override the governor's promised veto of the money. ''If that money has been made available and we've paid for it, we should accept it. To do anything otherwise is purely political.''
 The torrent of money flowing here after Hurricane Katrina has gone for projects small and grand, from $63,000 to the St. Theodore Holy Family Catholic School in Lake Charles and $96,000 for the Louisiana School for the Deaf in Baton Rouge to $11 million to the public housing authority in New Orleans and $160 million for the city's sewer and water board. Billions of dollars more have been paid out in federally subsidized flood insurance, levee reconstruction and low-cost loans, including $7.9 billion for the Road Home program, which provided cash grants to people whose homes were damaged in the flooding.
 The official list includes dozens upon dozens of projects, and the money is still being paid out -- indeed, a constant lament of Louisiana officials is that it does not come fast enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bobby Jindal is an outspoken foe of federal aid, but his subordinates praise it as effective.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM MUELLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); HISTORY (89%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); HOSPITALS (61%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



223 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2094 words

HEADLINE: Executives Took, but the Directors Gave

BYLINE: By HEATHER LANDY

 BODY:
LITTLE of the ire against outsize C.E.O. paychecks has been aimed at the people who signed off on them: corporate directors. 
 Instead, the anger has been concentrated on the executives themselves, particularly those running companies at the heart of the financial crisis. And boards -- thrust into the limelight only rarely, as when the directors of the New York Stock Exchange were in a legal battle over the pay collected by Richard A. Grasso -- have managed to stay in the background. 
 The exchange's board ''really took a lot of heat for that controversy,'' says Sarah Anderson, an analyst on executive pay at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington. ''But so far, with this crisis, I don't feel like boards have been getting as much attention as they should be.'' 
 Last spring, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform examined pay practices at Countrywide Financial, Merrill Lynch and Citigroup, but those issues eventually took a back seat to broader concerns about the viability of the country's financial system. As investors frustrated by the continuing crisis start seeking ways to avoid the next one, advocates of change in corporate governance expect boards to come under renewed scrutiny that could yield big changes. 
 Emboldened shareholder activists are pressing more companies to hold annual nonbinding votes on executive pay packages. They're also pursuing, and appear increasingly likely to win, rules to make it easier for investors to nominate or replace board members. 
 And as more people start connecting the dots between pay incentives that boards laid out for executives and the risk-taking at the heart of the financial crisis, some lawmakers have been eager to step in, and many directors themselves are re-examining their approach to compensation.
 ''When you look at cases where compensation of senior management was out of line, or where people arguably were overpaid, it's definitely the fault of the compensation committee of the board,'' says Thomas Cooley, dean of the Stern School of Business at New York University and a director of Thornburg Mortgage. ''Congress has gotten into the business of dictating executive pay now, and they shouldn't be in that business. What they should be doing is turning the light on the committees.''
 Activist shareholders have been criticizing executive pay practices for well over a decade, accusing directors of being too cozy with C.E.O.'s, too eager to lavish pay on them and too ambiguous about the formulas they use for setting compensation.
 Improved standards for determining director independence and disclosing the procedures of board compensation committees were supposed to help solve those problems. And activist shareholders played a major role in spreading the notion of pay-for-performance, by which executives would be compensated based on their ability to meet board-devised financial targets.
 But amid all the changes, a crucial piece of the equation -- the unintended risks that could arise from these pay-for-performance incentives -- went unnoticed, said James P. Hawley, co-director of the Elfenworks Center for the Study of Fiduciary Capitalism at St. Mary's College of California.
 ''The problem isn't just when people in a particular firm are getting rewarded in ways that take away from the shareholder. That's been well recognized,'' Mr. Hawley says. ''What's not been recognized is that the misalignment of incentives has resulted in firm, sector and systemic risks. None of the corporate governance activists ever made the connection.''
 It took the disastrous results of 2008 to expose such links, and to make compensation a central issue for politicians and corporate America.
 TWO factors contributed to the pay scales that now have C.E.O.'s earning more than 300 times the pay of the average American worker.
 First was the advent of giant stock option grants, a form of compensation made all the more attractive by a 1993 change to the tax law that maintained corporate tax deductions for executive pay over $1 million, but only if the pay was tied to performance. 
 Second was the widespread practice of linking pay to the levels at companies of similar size or scope. Every time a board tries to keep an executive happy by offering above-average pay, the net effect is to raise the average that everyone else will use as a baseline. 
 In the absence of fraud or self-dealing, it's hard for shareholders to make a legal argument that boards have failed at their job. State law in Delaware, where most big public entities are incorporated, simply requires companies to have boards that direct or manage their affairs, and it affords broad legal protection to board members so long as they act in good faith and in a manner ''believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.''
 That was the basis for the recent ruling of a Delaware judge who threw out most of the claims in a shareholder lawsuit seeking to hold Citigroup directors and officers liable for big losses tied to subprime mortgages. But the judge did allow the plaintiffs to pursue one of their claims, which alleged corporate waste stemming from a multimillion-dollar parting pay package that Citigroup's board awarded Charles O. Prince III, the former C.E.O., in 2007. 
 While legal protections for directors have changed little over the years, boards have operated under a new level of scrutiny since enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley law, Congress's answer to the scandals at Enron and WorldCom. Among other things, this 2002 law strengthened the litmus test for director independence and laid out new responsibilities and requirements for boards' audit committee members.
 Now, the furor over executive pay has heightened the profile of compensation committees, says R. William Ide, chairman of the Governance Center at the Conference Board, a private research group. 
 ''Board members now, even if they're not on the compensation committee, want to know everything the compensation committee knows,'' says Mr. Ide, a lawyer in Atlanta who serves on the compensation committee of the Albemarle Corporation, the chemicals maker. ''We're all revisiting our practices and saying, 'It's a new day, there are new practices, are we vulnerable, and is there anything we need to change?' '' 
 In March 2008, the staff of the House oversight committee examined pay practices and circulated a memo to members criticizing Citigroup for giving Mr. Prince a cash bonus, millions in unvested stock and options, and other retirement perks like an assistant and a driver. The memo took Merrill Lynch's board to task for allowing E. Stanley O'Neal to retire in 2007 instead of terminating him, a decision that kept Mr. O'Neal eligible for $131 million in stock and options he would have forfeited had he been fired. The memo also raised questions about standards that Countrywide used to set the pay of Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive, alleging that the mortgage lender had switched pay consultants when the board's approach to compensation was questioned.
 The Countrywide board was disbanded when the company was bought by Bank of America, which declined to comment.
 The committee plans to question A.I.G. directors in the next few months about the retention bonuses that caused a recent uproar.
 While the financial crisis has again shaken investors' faith in boards, Kenneth Daly, president of the National Association of Corporate Directors, doubts that Congress will be quick to become involved again in mandating specific duties for boards.
 ''Did Sarbanes-Oxley avoid the problems we're in? Absolutely not, and I think the Hill recognizes that,'' Mr. Daly says. ''But I think you will see legislation that makes it easier for shareholders to remove directors who aren't doing their jobs.''
 Corporate governance activists continue to press for regulations that would make it easier for shareholders to put their own board nominees on proxy ballots. Opponents worry that giving shareholders greater proxy access would be too disruptive to boards, but supporters say the current system makes it too difficult, and too expensive, for shareholders to elect anyone who isn't on a company's slate of nominees.
 Another development that could shake up director elections is a proposal by the New York Stock Exchange that would bar brokers from casting votes for shareholders who have not provided specific voting instructions. Because brokers typically vote with management, victories for the company's slate of nominees would be less certain.
 ''All of this means that directors need to be on the top of their game, and that shareholders will be watching,'' says Richard Ferlauto, director of corporate governance and pension investments at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
 SHAREHOLDER pressure has led to policy changes in the past. In 2007 the board at Home Depot, smarting from sharp criticism over the pay it lavished on Robert L. Nardelli, its former chief executive, adopted several new procedures, including a rule requiring approval of C.E.O. pay packages by two-thirds of the board's independent directors, instead of a simple majority. 
 Now, amid the financial crisis, governance activists are receiving a taste of the type of changes that can be ushered in during an era of intense public scrutiny. 
 In December, Morgan Stanley announced that it would start holding onto a portion of its employees' bonuses for three years, and potentially withhold the money for good from workers who cause financial or reputational harm to the company. Directors and the chief executive of General Motors agreed to work for $1 this year after the automaker sought a taxpayer bailout.
 But the concessions from G.M. weren't enough to save the job of Rick Wagoner, the C.E.O., who resigned last Sunday at the request of Obama administration officials. G.M. now plans to draw up a slate of board nominees consisting of a majority of new directors, to present at the company's next annual meeting.
 The reshaping of boards also has been a priority at other recipients of taxpayer aid. The boards of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were almost entirely dismantled in September when the government took over the mortgage-finance companies. Both boards were reconstituted several months later with mostly new directors.
 Citigroup, too, is changing its board amid sharp questions about issues like the company's gargantuan balance sheet and the $126 million in cash and stock paid to Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, for eight years of service as a director of the bank and chairman of its executive committee. Mr. Rubin has drawn attention for the fact that he was lushly compensated even though the bank he helped steward wound up so deeply distressed that it needed a taxpayer bailout to survive.
 Mr. Rubin, along with Win Bischoff, the former chairman, and Roberto Hernandez Ramirez, head of the bank's Mexican operations, will not be standing for re-election. Another two directors are approaching the mandatory retirement age. In all, a third of Citigroup's board will turn over this year.
 Directors at Citigroup, A.I.G. and other companies that received bailout funds are in uncharted territory, says Dennis R. Beresford, an accounting professor at the University of Georgia and one of three Fannie Mae directors asked to rejoin the board after the government takeover. 
 ''We don't really have a lot of history to say how boards should operate in these kinds of circumstances,'' Mr. Beresford says. ''The directors are principally serving shareholders, but they would be foolish not to be thinking about the government's interest, and if nothing else thinking about the public-relations aspects of what their companies are doing.''
 THE public furor over pay and bailouts is helping to make board service a tough sell at a time when so many candidates, particularly sitting C.E.O.'s, already feel more pressure in their day jobs. 
 Executives and directors are becoming very cautious not only about how they use their time, but also about what liabilities -- legal, reputational and otherwise -- they're willing to take on, says Ted Dysart, a managing partner at Heidrick & Struggles, the search firm, who helps run its global board of directors practice.
 ''I think you're going to see continuing caution,'' he says, ''because if the anger over executive compensation continues to push its way out, it won't be long before people start taking out ads with people's faces on them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Citigroup's parting package for Charles O. Prince III is the subject of a shareholder lawsuit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
When E. Stanley O'Neal left Merrill Lynch, he was eligible for $131 million in compensation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KARP/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Citigroup paid Robert E. Rubin $126 million in cash and stock for eight years of service.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU7) PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 CHART: Investors' Eyes on Pay: So far this year, shareholders have filed more than 100 resolutions -- more than for any other kind of shareholder proposal -- to give investors an advisory vote on compensation. This year, three types of proposals on executive pay have grown in number: those on advisory votes, golden parachutes and anti-gross-ups.(Source: RiskMetrics)(BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



224 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Fix The Confidence Game

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- As he cashiered the head of one of America's storied automakers last week, President Obama declared that he remained ''confident that G.M. can rise again.'' Then he flew to London to meet with counterparts to try to turn the world economy around, vowing once again to restore ''confidence in the financial markets.''
 By the time he got to France, he told a town hall meeting that he was ''confident that we can meet any challenge as long as we are together.'' For good measure, he repeated the phrase twice more in his opening remarks. And in case the folks back home missed it, Mr. Obama taped a message for broadcast Saturday declaring that ''I am confident that we will meet this challenge.''
 Confidence is the name of the game for a new president trying to calibrate his message to match the moment, searching for a way to inspire a recession-weary country and convey hope that better times are ahead. It is a tricky balance to strike. If he sounds too gloomy, he could further depress a nation desperate for any sign of progress. If he sounds too optimistic, he risks looking as if he's trying to pull something over on the nation, a different sort of Confidence Man. 
 ''You don't want to overlook the misery and not look like you're in touch with the challenges they're facing,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. ''On the other hand, you've got to give them a sense that there's a light on the horizon that you're pointing to and it's visible.''
 Mr. Obama finds himself the leader of a nation with depleted confidence in all sorts of institutions of American life, from the banks and auto industry to government and the news media. America's very place in the world seems in doubt to some, as China and Russia push to create a new international currency to replace the dollar and others challenge the nation's economic, military and cultural dominance.
 This is hardly the first time a president has confronted such a challenge. Franklin D. Roosevelt arguably turned around the mood of a country that appreciated his buoyant style, reassuring fireside chats and certitude that the only thing to fear was ''fear itself,'' even as the Great Depression raged on for years. Ronald Reagan took over a country following Vietnam and Watergate that suffered what Jimmy Carter had called a ''crisis of confidence'' and proceeded to emulate Roosevelt with a series of radio addresses and speeches expressing restless faith in the American spirit.
 Regardless of how much credit they really deserve, Roosevelt and Reagan, or their legends, certainly have driven successive presidents to focus on their tone, knowing that they will be judged on it. George W. Bush projected steady assurance in the aftermath of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But his relentlessly upbeat assessments of the war in Iraq later made him seem disconnected until he eventually acknowledged that the war was going badly and changed his strategy. 
 ''People just stopped believing him after a while,'' said Alan Brinkley, the provost of Columbia University and a presidential historian. ''Obama's different from Roosevelt and Reagan in that he's kind of cool and calm and yet he can also be very charismatic. I think the sense of calm and reason is what makes people trust him. He doesn't have the ebullient enthusiasm that Roosevelt had and Reagan had, but it's a different kind of confidence.''
 The balance has eluded Mr. Obama at times since his election last year. For weeks, he sounded like a harbinger of doom, as he warned about a recession that could last a decade. That was in part a legislative tactic, designed to pressure Congress to act quickly on his economic program to head off calamity. But some critics complained he was talking down the economy and even some supporters urged him to remember the optimism.
 At one point, former President Bill Clinton, the self-styled man from Hope (Arkansas, that is), urged Mr. Obama to level with the American people about the scope of the crisis but emphasize his faith in the future. ''I just would like him to end by saying that he is hopeful and completely convinced we're going to come through this,'' Mr. Clinton said at the time.
 Mr. Clinton learned by navigating the treacherous divide between optimism and pessimism during his own presidency. Once, in 1995, he mentioned to reporters aboard Air Force One that he thought his job was to ''get people out of their funk.'' That spawned a furor comparing his comment to Mr. Carter's so-called ''malaise'' speech (although in truth, Mr. Carter never used that word), and the Clinton team worked furiously to douse the notion that the president thought the country was down. ''Funk,'' Mr. Clinton said, ''was a poor choice of words.''
 In an interview, Mr. Emanuel, a former aide to Mr. Clinton, remembered that as the White House geared up for reelection in 1996, the president and his advisers discussed whether to run on the message that the economy was strong and heading in the right direction or strong but not helping everyone. ''We had this big debate internally,'' Mr. Emanuel recalled, and ultimately they opted for the more optimistic variant.
 Mr. Clinton won easily. But others have not been so lucky. As the economy spiraled into crisis, Mr. Bush resisted using the word ''recession'' well into 2008, preferring instead ''slowdown'' and ''downturn,'' reasoning that a president using the R-word prematurely could make it a foregone conclusion. And some analysts trace Senator John McCain's loss to Mr. Obama last fall to the day in September when he said the ''fundamentals of our economy are strong.'' He later tried to explain that he meant that as praise for the hard work and ingenuity of the American people, but Democrats pilloried him.
 So there was no small irony last month when Mr. Obama tried to pivot to a more optimistic tone following his success in pushing a $787 billion stimulus package through Congress and wound up echoing Mr. McCain's words. Mr. Obama said he was ''very confident'' that the country would get through the economic crisis if it ''focused on all the fundamentally sound aspects of our economy,'' citing those American workers Mr. McCain mentioned.
 Mr. Obama is trying to capitalize on his personal popularity but polls suggest the nation has more confidence in him than in his policies. His approval rating remains roughly at 60 percent, according to a range of recent polls compiled by the RealClearPolitics Web site, down about 5 points in recent weeks, and more people say they believe the country is on the right track than did last fall. But the Consumer Confidence Index in February reached its lowest point since its inception in 1967 and it remained relatively unchanged in March.
 Some economists dismiss the importance of confidence at a time when so many pillars of the system remain broken. ''That's not going to fix it,'' said Peter Morici, an economist at the University of Maryland. ''The economy got bad and the people lost their confidence, not the reverse. People getting their confidence back is not going to restore banks to solvency or consumer demand.''
 The problem, Dr. Morici added, ''is not confidence; it's substance.'' After all, just last month, another 663,000 jobs were lost, according to figures released Friday, bringing the total for the recession to more than five million so far.
 Advisers to the president agree that the substance is critical and point to their various efforts, from the stimulus plan to the latest proposals to stem foreclosures and sell off banks' toxic assets. But they say they also see value in persuading Americans that it is O.K. to spend again, to start businesses and hire workers.
 Donald A. Baer, White House communications director under Mr. Clinton, suggested that Mr. Obama ''show more of the things that are working in the economy. There's so much attention on what's broken and what's failed. That has a lot of impact on how we think about the future. I happen to think there are a lot of things that are working.''
 Even if the country's confidence, for the moment, is not one of them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UP IN A DOWN WORLD: Confidence is a tricky thing for President Obama. He doesn't want to sound too gloomy, nor ignore a grim reality. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (88%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



225 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Giving Buyers a Green Light

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN; Christopher Jensen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THE automakers and President Obama were busy last week devising plans they hoped would entice reluctant consumers to buy new vehicles.
 Some of the ideas were quickly adopted while others remain ideas-in-progress. Though the strategies varied, the goal was the same: changing the consumer mindset. 
 ''Consumer confidence is the biggest hurdle,'' said John McEleney, the owner of a multibrand dealership in Clinton, Iowa, and chairman of the National Automobile Dealers Association.
 The jitters appear to be a universal consumer affliction, said Jeff Schuster, executive director of global forecasting at J. D. Power & Associates. Even buyers in good financial shape who have ''not felt the recession yet personally'' are nervous about such big purchases, he said. 
 The programs intended to give potential buyers some peace of mind include: 
 Loan-payment guarantees to protect consumers who lose their jobs. 
 Government backing of Chrysler's and General Motors' new-vehicle warranties.
 Deductions to offset sales and excise taxes on new-vehicle purchases.
 Cash payments to those willing to dump a clunker and buy a new vehicle.
 While these solutions and others are being debated and explored, analysts agree that the nation is faced with the worst automotive market in decades.
 ''If you adjust for population, because we have a lot more people who are of car-buying age, it hasn't been this bad since the 1960s,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive of Edmunds.com.
 Here are some details of the programs automakers and the government have begun or are considering to help consumers:
 The government will back new-vehicle warranties for Chrysler and General Motors, both of which are receiving government assistance. Ford will be permitted to participate if it wants to.
 The program calls for money to be set aside in special accounts that can be used if an automaker runs out of cash. Those accounts will contain 125 percent of the projected warranty costs. The automaker will provide 15 percent and the government will provide the rest. The government's funds will come from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
 That money will cover the warranties of vehicles sold by Chrysler and G.M. anywhere in the world. Such universal coverage is necessary to support the American companies and their workers, a spokesman for the Treasury Department said.
 Mr. Anwyl of Edmunds.com said he didn't think consumers faced much risk over the warranties anyway. 
 ''This statement from the government makes the risk even less,'' he said.
 Safety recalls, however, are not covered after the vehicle's warranty expires. In the case of a safety defect an automaker can be on the hook for repairs for a decade.
 The Internal Revenue Service will allow a tax deduction for new vehicles purchased after Feb. 16 and before Jan. 1, 2010.
 The I.R.S. says state and local sales and excise taxes on the first $49,500 of the price of a new car, light truck, motor home or motorcycle can be deducted from the buyer's income tax. That deduction won't have a big impact, predicted Mr. McEleney, the Iowa dealer.
 ''At the end of the day in most customers' cases it amounts to $300, $400, $500 savings and they don't recognize those savings until they file their income taxes,'' he said.
 More companies are introducing programs to reduce the risk of buying a car should a buyer suffer a job loss. They apply to new vehicles that are either financed or leased. 
 The Ford Motor Company announced on Tuesday morning that it would provide financial protection to car buyers who lost their jobs. Hours later, General Motors introduced a similar program. They are following Hyundai's lead, in January, to offer some assurance to potential consumers who are simply afraid to buy a car because of worries over losing their jobs. ''The most important thing for us in our industry is to get customers into the showroom,'' said Jim Farley, Ford's group vice president for marketing and communications. ''That's the only way out of this economy. We are saying we are going to take the worry about your job off the table.''
 As one part of Ford's Advantage Plan, the company says it will provide payment protection in cases of a job loss of up to $700 a month for up to a year on any Ford, Lincoln or Mercury. The program ends on June 1. To be eligible for the program, consumers must make one payment. Then, if they lose their job between that time and the end of 2009 they will be covered. For example, even if someone loses a job in December 2009, payments will be covered through December 2010. 
 The G.M. Total Confidence plan will make up to nine payments on loans or leases of up to $500 a month in the case of a job loss for economic reasons. But Payment Protection, one part of the G.M. Total Confidence program, is only available for vehicles sold during April. And it applies to job losses that occur within two years. 
 The protection begins 91 days after the vehicle's purchase date, and lasts for an additional 21 months until April 1, 2011. The program applies to new G.M. cars and trucks, except for Saabs and medium and heavy-duty trucks. 
 G.M. says one unique part of its program, called Vehicle Value Protection, helps to protect a consumer's investment in a new G.M. car by providing either a credit of up to $5,000 when the customer trades in that vehicle to buy a new Chevrolet, Pontiac, Buick, GMC, Cadillac, Saturn or Hummer, or up to $2,500 if a customer sells the vehicle privately and then buys one of those new models within seven days. G.M. says this program provides assistance to customers who find themselves owing more on their loan than their car is worth. 
 Hyundai started it all in January when it announced Hyundai Assurance, a 12-month vehicle-return program. At its core is the promise that if you lose your job, you can walk away from your car, loan payments and insurance bills. And a person has up to one year to apply for this benefit, so the vehicle doesn't have to be returned immediately. A new improvement to that program, Assurance Plus, adds a one-time loan or lease payment equal to 90 days. 
 In contrast to the Hyundai program, the customer keeps the vehicle under the Ford and G.M. plans.
 Mr. Schuster, the J. D. Power analyst, sees this bundle of promises and packages as helpful, but not a complete solution. ''It is not something by itself that I think will turn the market around,'' he said. ''It will help the market but it won't correct where it is.''
 What is needed, Mr. Schuster said, is for a lot of other things to happen, such as a flattening of the unemployment rate. 
 ''You have to have all these things at least stabilize before we will see any pronounced recovery,'' he said. ''We are looking at a very complex puzzle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONFIDENCE Last week General Motors and Ford offered programs to reassure buyers concerned about the wisdom of buying a car now.(AU6) CHART: Comparing Automakers' Job-Loss Protection Plans: Ford and General Motors have announced payment-protection programs for customers who lose their jobs after buying a new car. In January, Hyundai started allowing buyers to return vehicles within a year if they could not make payments because of a job loss or disability. The programs have various restrictions and qualifications, but here are the basic features of each.(AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EXCISE TAX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); PRODUCT RECALLS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



226 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Obama Finds That Washington's Habits of Secrecy Die Hard

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At 12:01 p.m. on Jan. 20 -- the precise moment Barack Obama became president of the United States -- a new White House Web site sprang to electronic life with a pledge to ''provide a window for all Americans into the business of the government.'' The next day, Mr. Obama issued a memorandum on transparency, promising to make it one of ''the touchstones of this presidency.''
 But on issue after issue -- a raucous internal debate over whether to release memorandums detailing harsh interrogation techniques used during the Bush years, for example, or publicizing financial information about high-level administration appointees -- Mr. Obama has discovered that fulfilling his pledge is easier said than done.
 He has bumped up against technological hurdles, privacy concerns and the entrenched culture of secrecy that has flourished for decades in Washington and culminated under his predecessor, President George W. Bush. Mr. Obama has vowed a break with the past, but he has not broken completely. 
 Press briefings by ''senior administration officials'' who demand anonymity, a standard feature of the Bush administration, are also commonplace in the Obama White House. Mr. Obama recently infuriated advocates of open government by asserting his right to restrict communications between federal workers and Congress. And while he has promised to be more forthcoming about his schedule, some meetings -- like the time he dropped by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s office to see Mikhail S. Gorbachev -- remain undisclosed.
 ''The administration is showing wonderful potential, but so far it is only potential,'' said Jim Harper, director of information policy studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian-leaning research organization. ''Being transparent is politically tough. The habit in D.C. is to hold information as tightly as you can because information is power.''
 Those old habits die hard, as Mr. Obama is learning. When Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and Gregory B. Craig, the White House counsel, pressed to release some Bush interrogation memorandums, they faced resistance from the Central Intelligence Agency; the internal debate has not been resolved. 
 When Congress asked for the names of Wall Street firms that benefited from the bailout of the American International Group, Mr. Obama's Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, balked; so did Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. The White House overruled them. 
 ''We thought that information belonged in the public domain,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser.
 When public-interest groups pushed Mr. Obama to put financial disclosure forms submitted by his high-level appointees on the Internet, the administration discovered that privacy laws stood in the way. Instead, the White House announced Friday that the records would be made available electronically -- a big advance over the current paper system -- but by request only, in order to meet the legal restrictions.
 As a candidate and a senator, Mr. Obama was a strong backer of whistleblower protections. But as president, he issued a signing statement reserving the right to keep whistleblowers from talking to Congress in cases where their communications would be unlawful or ''otherwise confidential.'' The White House says previous presidents have used similar language, but critics say Mr. Obama's phrase -- ''otherwise confidential'' -- gives him broad authority.
 ''We see the ability of whistleblowers to bring forward misconducts or acts of corruption as an essential tenet to open government,'' said Danielle Brian, executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, which joined other advocacy groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, in writing Mr. Obama last week to demand an explanation. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, has also protested. ''It makes you think the new era of transparency is over before it began,'' Mr. Grassley said.
 In all these areas, Mr. Obama is facing challenges and limits that come with his own high standards -- challenges that extend even to the White House Web site, www.whitehouse.gov. Mr. Obama has used the site in creative ways; he recently became the first American president to hold a live, online video question-and-answer session from the White House. But he has not fulfilled one of his basic campaign promises: to post legislation on the site for five days before signing it into law.
 The first bill the president signed, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, was not posted at all. Other bills have been posted before they passed Congress in an attempt to meet the five-day requirement. And when Mr. Obama signed a land conservation bill last week at the White House, it had been on the Web for just three days. His aides said he needed to sign it quickly before leaving for Europe.
 The lapses have earned Mr. Obama a ''promise broken'' demerit on the ''Obameter'' at the nonpartisan Web site Politifact.com. Mr. Axelrod said the president remained committed to openness and vowed that the government would grow more transparent.
 ''Have we achieved everything we want to achieve yet? No. We've actually been a little preoccupied. We're trying to deal with some major challenges here,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''But we've done some things that have never been done before.''
 Indeed, many advocates give Mr. Obama plaudits for setting a standard that Gary D. Bass, executive director of OMB Watch, a nonpartisan government watchdog group, called a ''night and day'' difference from the Bush administration.
 On his first full day on the job, the president sent a strong signal that he wanted his administration to be as open as possible. He declared that agencies would err on the side of disclosure in handling requests under the Freedom of Information Act, and promised that his administration would develop an ''open government directive'' within 120 days.
 That effort is under way. Beth Noveck, an official with the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, has been convening listening sessions to hear from advocacy groups on how to create what the White House is calling ''a 21st-century government.'' 
 When Mr. Obama held a ''health care summit,'' the entire event -- including small working group discussions -- was streamed live on the White House Web site. When he signed the $787 billion economic recovery package, his administration established a Web site, www.recovery.gov, to track the money. Ellen S. Miller, co-founder of the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington advocacy group, called the site ''an amazing potential model of how information is made available to the public.''
 Yet the site is confusing and hard to navigate, in part because the federal bureaucracy is not yet accustomed to gathering such data and disseminating it, Mr. Bass said. He added that it would take at least a year to determine how well Mr. Obama was living up to his transparency pledge.
 In the meantime, advocates are pushing for more. Mr. Bass said he wanted the Obama administration to release information not only on how states and local governments spend tax dollars, but also on how the money is used by private contractors. Ms. Miller said she wanted the president to start live-streaming more meetings, like cabinet sessions, on the White House Web site.
 ''I give it about a C, in terms of the three things which the president has said he is most interested in -- transparency, collaboration and engagement,'' she said. ''They're just not there yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama has yet to fulfill his promise of posting all legislation on the White House Web site for five days before signing it into law. Above, signing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.(PHOTGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); GREG CRAIG (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



227 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: To Universal Care, via Massachusetts?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''One State's Lesson on Health Care'' (Week in Review, March 29), about President Obama's strategy and the Massachusetts model:
 It is relatively easy to wish for social justice, pass a law and say it is so. But unless one understands the original problem, the wish will quickly fade under the pressure of reality. So it is with health care for all in Massachusetts.
 The state, like the rest of the country, lacks the keystone of any medical system: adequate primary care. And without good primary care, the coordination of care, preventive care and care of the chronically ill all become problematic. 
 Massachusetts is not alone in providing the ineffectual and inappropriate health care that consumes about one-third of the country's $2.3 trillion in annual health care spending.
 It is only when these problems are corrected that Massachusetts will be able to afford universal coverage.
 Kenneth A. Fisher Kalamazoo, Mich., March 29, 2009
 The writer is a nephrologist and medical director of the Free Medical Clinic of Kalamazoo. 
 To the Editor:
 For crying out loud, the silence is deafening regarding skyrocketing health care costs. And it isn't an elephant in the examination room; it's the 800-pound gorilla on every doctor's back -- the threat of lawsuits, defensive medicine and its staggering expense. 
 Will the media and the administration dare speak the words ''tort reform''? Electronic medical records are just a subterfuge in health care cost savings. The real culprit is the number of tests being done to keep the 800-pound gorilla at bay. 
 A 12-year-old skateboarder suffers scrapes to his right arm and flank. After I set his fractured wrist, did he really need the CT scan of his abdomen? I didn't think so, but the emergency-room doctor had an entirely different take. Yet another example of defensive medicine.
 In my orthopedic practice, the patient and I could come to the right course of action with at least 30 to 40 percent fewer tests.
 Mark D. Chase Montclair, N.J., March 29, 2009
 To the Editor:
 According to your article, ''there is only one real-life model in this country for the kind of sweeping change being considered in Washington, and that is in Massachusetts.'' That comparison is inapt. Individual states cannot operate in deficit, so they cannot afford the initial investment required to drive down costs over 5 to 10 years. 
 Numerous instructive comparisons can easily be found by looking at Europe and Canada. Let's not forget that we're the only Western industrialized country that does not provide universal, government-supported health care.
 Dean Lambrecht Minneapolis, March 29, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Missing from your article on health care reform is a discussion of quality care. 
 As a nursing-home administrator, I have witnessed reductions in costs as a result of improvements to care. 
 The American College of Health Care Administrators has demonstrated the positive outcomes of improving care in nursing homes with its quality-care initiative, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services have expanded pay-for-performance initiatives that link payments to quality measures.
 When policy makers embrace both efforts to improve care and efforts to reduce costs, the number of people with access to health care can only increase.
 Stephen Hemrick Boston, March 29, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Policies that mandate health care coverage for adults are easy for people to understand and can be effective in encouraging people to obtain insurance. But policies themselves do not get people into insurance programs or find them a doctor. People do. 
 These people are community-based outreach workers. At food pantries, homeless shelters, schools, hospitals, health centers and on the street, outreach workers find and educate eligible people, helping them to enroll, retain and use coverage.
 Far fewer Massachusetts residents would have insurance, and very few would know what to do once they got it, without the help of outreach workers, and any national reforms must include them.
 Meg Kroeplin Amherst, Mass., March 29, 2009
 The writer is executive director of Community Partners.
 To the Editor:
 In a March 30 letter, a doctor says the Canadian health care system is inferior to the United States' system, but this is not borne out by the data, like life expectancy rates.
 In Canada, life expectancy at birth is about two years higher than in the United States. And this advantage is not gained by spending more. Medical costs as a percent of G.D.P. (combining public and private costs) are 15 percent in the United States and 10 percent in Canada. 
 There are flaws in the Canadian system, but then that is also true of the American system. What the letter writer labels ''horrors of a Canadian-style single-payer system'' are a bit hard to see.
 Joseph J. Stern Newton, Mass., March 30, 2009
 The writer is an economist and was a lecturer at Harvard Kennedy School.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); MEDICAL RECORDS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TORTS (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); ORTHOPEDICS (66%); SKATEBOARDING (66%); LITIGATION (65%); TORT REFORM (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LEGISLATION (57%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



228 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Watchdog For Stimulus Is Appointed In California

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has appointed an inspector general to act as watchdog over the estimated $50 billion in federal stimulus money to be disbursed to cities and organizations in California. Mr. Schwarzenegger is the first state leader to create such a position. 
 His choice for the job, the Los Angeles controller, Laura Chick, is a Democrat who has caused headaches for city officials and agencies by exposing waste and incompetence and extending her reach across government. 
 Ms. Chick was once threatened with a lawsuit by the Los Angeles city attorney, Rocky Delgadillo, over her decision to audit the work of elected officials, including his, and she caused embarrassment at the Los Angeles Police Department over a backlog of 7,000 rape-kits awaiting testing. 
 The potential for fraud as billions of dollars in stimulus money is distributed has been an immediate concern among federal and local officials. Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, told Congress that the large amount of money spread around the nation would ''lead to an inevitable increase in economic crime and public corruption cases.'' More than 40 states have set up Web sites to track stimulus spending publicly. 
 ''I think this is one of the most important things we can do to help the Obama administration disburse this money in the most efficient way,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said in a telephone interview. 
 The governor, who made the appointment on Friday, said Ms. Chick had been ''known to be not just a watchdog but a bulldog.''
 ''She is efficient at rooting out problems when agencies or departments spent their money the wrong way,'' he added.
 Ms. Chick, whose eight-year term as controller ends in June, will be paid $175,000 annually as the stimulus inspector general. 
 She said in an interview, ''Watching taxpayer dollars and ensuring they are spent wisely and well and making sure they are used on intended goals is what government is all about.''
 Working for a Republican governor does not bother her.
 ''I feel fantastic about it,'' Ms. Chick said. ''If there has ever been a time and call for working across the aisle together, it's around this issue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Chick 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); LITIGATION (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



229 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CASES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Changing Direction March 29 - April 4

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Justice Department moved to void the conviction it won in October against former Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska after misconduct by prosecutors was uncovered.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Stevens, a Republican who was narrowly defeated for re-election days after the conviction, will not be retried, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said. Government lawyers said prosecutors had concealed evidence that raised significant doubts about the charges. Earlier instances of prosecutorial misconduct nearly led to a mistrial. The case had to do with gifts and services Mr. Stevens received but was accused of not reporting as required, including work on his home. 
 THE NEWS Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told reporters that the Obama administration had ended the Bush team's practice of referring collectively to actions against Al Qaeda, the Taliban, Iraq insurgents or other enemies as the ''war on terror.'' ''The administration has stopped using the phrase,'' she said. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mocked by critics as simplistic, misleading and inflammatory, the phrase is one of several Bush-era labels now being dropped, including ''surge'' for a deployment of additional troops and ''enemy combatants'' for detainees. But the new term for the war, ''overseas contingency operations,'' was swiftly derided by Republicans and cable-TV satirists as a clunky euphemism.
 THE NEWS Under heavy political pressure, the Financial Accounting Standards Board voted to change one of its rules and allow banks more leeway to decide for themselves what the mortgage securities they own are worth. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Banks said the former ''mark to market'' rule -- which required them to value their securities at current market prices -- crimped their capital unfairly by forcing them to report huge paper losses on securities that they say will regain value when the financial crisis eases. Opponents said that substituting wishful thinking for real-world prices would just make investors distrust banks even more than they do already.
 THE NEWS A federal judge ruled that some prisoners held by the United States military in Afghanistan have a right to challenge their imprisonment in American civilian courts.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The ruling rejected a claim of executive power made by both the Bush and Obama administrations, and dealt a blow to government efforts to detain terrorism suspects for long periods without court oversight. Judge John D. Bates ruled that two Yemenis and a Tunisian held at Bagram Air Base north of Kabul had the same legal rights that the Supreme Court granted last year to prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The three have been detained for more than six years.
 THE NEWS General Motors, under its new chief, Fritz Henderson, above, told the Treasury that it was prepared to file for bankruptcy protection if it could not make itself viable without that step.
 BEHIND THE NEWS When G.M. submitted a plan to the government in February to overhaul itself, it said bankruptcy would do more harm than good and asked for another $16.6 billion in bailout money, on top of the $13.4 billion it had already received. But the White House rejected the plan as insufficient, forced out Rick Wagoner as chief executive and gave G.M. until June 1 to do better. Chrysler's overhaul plan was also rejected, and the company was given 30 days to merge with Fiat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT VOS/AGENCE-FRANCE PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES
BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES
 JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); MISCONDUCT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); MISTRIAL (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TALIBAN (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); AL-QAEDA (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); AL-QAEDA (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



230 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: No Hurt Feelings In Germany

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPH PETERS. 
Christoph Peters is the author of the novel ''The Fabric of Night.'' This essay was translated by John Cullen from the German.

DATELINE: Berlin 

 BODY:
 ALTHOUGH this time around surely no one would have tried to prohibit Barack Obama from delivering a speech right in front of the Brandenburg Gate, the fact that his first trip to Germany as president is merely a fleeting visit to tranquil Baden-Baden and not a big spectacle in bustling Berlin has provoked no reaction worth mentioning in our country, either from politicians or the public.
 And why should it? The new president's term has scarcely begun, and almost all his official visits lie ahead of him; previously, he'd been only to Canada. Given the present crisis and empty coffers, working meetings geared toward results are more appropriate for politicians than a program of touristy forays, throngs waving flaglets and bulletproof glass, the whole culminating in a neo-feudal state banquet. 
 This objective outlook, however, has done nothing to diminish Obama-enthusiasm in Germany; on the contrary, it has imparted, especially to citizens inclined toward criticism, the soothing feeling that the glamour that surrounds the American president as it does no other statesman on the world stage is a natural and inevitable byproduct of his personality, and not an end in itself.
 The euphoria on the occasion of Mr. Obama's visit to Berlin last summer, the rejoicing after his election victory, and the upsurge of emotion that gripped many German television viewers too as they watched the inauguration festivities have by now turned into an enduring sense of relief. It seems we've reached a second stage in our relationship with Mr. Obama, as Americans have; thus Germans weren't likely to fly into the sort of frenzy that we are observing among the British and Czechs and Turks, who are seeing Mr. Obama in the flesh for the first time. 
 Many of the people I talk to describe a new stage in their relationship with the United States, a condition of positive normality that has a different quality from what they felt when Bill Clinton -- another man they liked -- was president. Nevertheless, in the medium term, current warnings that Mr. Obama must inevitably disappoint the hopes we've placed on him will probably turn out to have been somewhat justified. The incessant stimulation of today's news media -- which keeps the public in permanent expectation of the next superlative and of the ever-greater satisfaction it is sure to provide -- entails the danger that a peculiar feeling of emptiness will spread, followed by shame for past exuberance, as after a night of furious drinking. 
 So far, however, I've been unable to detect the slightest symptom of any such emotional hangover. Even those who were resolutely skeptical that Mr. Obama's undeniable charisma would be combined with concrete political skills have been imbued with restrained optimism. People like my 75-year-old grandparents, who live in the countryside and have always thought and voted conservatively, are of the opinion that this presidency is off to a good start, as are nearly all of my friends here in Berlin. The announcements made and the measures undertaken in Washington in the past 10 weeks -- including the beginning of the process of closing the prison at Guantanamo, the revocation of the licenses to torture in terrorism cases, and last week's announcement that America will seek a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council -- have given rise to the impression that the new president means to turn his campaign promises into action as decisively and quickly as structures, bureaucracies and legislative procedures allow.
 As for his efforts to solve the financial and economic crisis, at present no one feels really capable of judging whether or not they're the right ones. All the same, at the G-20 summit meeting in London, a compromise halted the conflict between Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France on one side and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Obama on the other. 
 While the American and British press made much of how unhappy most European leaders have been with Mr. Obama's stimulus package and other efforts to counter the economic meltdown, it would be wrong to assume that the man on the street -- or at least the German on the street -- shares that view. 
 Most of the people I'm in contact with, many of them intellectuals inclined to the humanities or the arts, can comprehend only gradually and hesitantly the extent to which the economies of the world have become one inextricable tangle, and we never cease to be amazed at the level of irrationality present in the reactions of the institutions and individuals that play a part in the economic process. In us, it elicits a shrug expressive of something between cluelessness and resignation. 
 In general, the politically minded members of my generation have world views shaped by the conflicting ideologies of the 20th century, even after the economic beginnings of those ideologies had coagulated into state doctrine and philosophical or socio-psychological theoretical constructs. The extremely mood-driven reactions on the international stock exchanges and in financial centers suggest that humanistic ethical criteria and rationally considered arguments alone will not suffice, in the present crisis, either to support individual opinions or to develop effective solutions.
 For now, we ponder two things: Mr. Obama's efforts to renew America's claim that it accords greater political weight to moral tenets grounded in reason than to the urgings of self-interest and lobbyists, and his winning combination of intelligence, compassion and charm. I can't remember ever seeing Angela Merkel smile at anyone the way she smiled at him in the photographs from the dinner at 10 Downing Street. Likewise, the images coming out of Baden-Baden on Friday evening make clear that whether she and the president are reviewing the parade together, meeting selected citizens or fielding questions from the press, the chancellor, too, has come down with an unequivocal case of Obama fever. 
 It gives one the hope that Barack Obama actually is the right man in the right place at the right time. And for the time being, neither I nor the majority of the people I know can find any real reason to surrender that hope.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SCHMELLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



231 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3137 words

HEADLINE: Who Moved My Bonus?

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES

 BODY:
BIG corporations, buffeted by widespread economic pain and heightened scrutiny of lush compensation packages, appear to be paying attention to a longstanding complaint from shareholders: When it comes to executive pay, greed -- even the appearance of it -- is not good.
 Executive compensation for the highest-paid chief executives at public companies fell in 2008, the first such downturn in five years. And the bottom dropped out of the bonus pool, the incentive that angered investors after the controversial bonus payouts at the American International Group. 
 ''We could begin to see a fundamental sea change in the compensation of executives,'' says Charles M. Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.
 ''The idea should be that compensation is related to the overall value of the company,'' he adds. ''If shareholder value has fallen, so should the value of the executive pay package. Pay should reflect company performance and align with shareholder interests.'' 
 For some time now, ''should'' has been the operative word for investors and corporate governance groups pressing for closer links among executive pay, performance and shareholder value. 
 But the recent public outrage over A.I.G., Merrill Lynch and other struggling or taxpayer-supported companies that paid big bonuses -- as well as continuing business woes and the fear of possible shareholder revolts -- has spurred some corporate compensation committees to rein in executive pay and cut or even do away with bonuses. (At A.I.G., 15 of the largest 20 bonuses, totaling about $30 million, have been returned.) 
 ''We're seeing at long last that boards are linking pay closer to performance,'' says Stephen M. Davis, senior fellow at the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance at the Yale School of Management. ''The challenge is whether they see this as a one-off episode to address public anger over out-of-control pay or if this is something that will be more permanent.
 ''These are green shoots,'' he says of the lower pay figures. ''To use a spring analogy, it remains to be seen whether these are annuals or perennials.''
 The compensation research firm Equilar (equilar.com) recently compiled data for The New York Times reflecting pay for 200 chief executives at 198 public companies that filed their annual proxies by March 27 and had revenue of at least $6.3 billion. (Two companies, Motorola and Synnex, had co-C.E.O.'s.) 
 The data supports Mr. Elson's and Mr. Davis's observations. It shows that as shareholder values and financial performance have fallen, so have average and median compensation numbers for chief executives -- although not by the same margins. And some C.E.O.'s continue to receive lavish pay packages even though many employees and shareholders have suffered hardships like layoffs, pay cuts and deep losses in 401(k)'s and other investments.
 Equilar found that median total compensation -- the midpoint at which half the values are lower and half are higher -- was down 9.4 percent last year, to $8.4 million. Average total compensation fell 5.1 percent, to $10.8 million. The totals are for C.E.O.'s who have held their jobs for at least two complete years. 
 The last time Equilar recorded a big decline in C.E.O. pay was after the tech bubble burst, from 2001 to 2002. During that period, compensation for chief executives at companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 9.9 percent, falling to a median of $7.06 million in 2002 from $7.84 million in 2001. From 2002 to 2003, S.& P. 500 executive pay was essentially flat. After that, it increased each year until last year. 
 The big slide in bonuses was largely responsible for dragging down executive pay in 2008. For C.E.O.'s in place at least two years, median cash bonuses plummeted 21.6 percent, with the average cash payout down 16 percent. The median cash bonus in 2008 was about $1.57 million, compared with more than $2 million in 2007. The average bonus was $2.42 million, down from $2.88 million a year earlier. 
 Stock and option awards remain huge pieces of C.E.O. pay. But their values are based on the dates when they were granted, so there is no guarantee that executives will actually realize these amounts; in many cases, the values have declined with the market.
 The executive on the list who earned the most last year, Sanjay K. Jha of Motorola, was paid almost entirely in such stock and option grants. He earned $104.4 million in total compensation, $103.6 million of that in grants when he was hired away from Qualcomm in August.
 Following him on the list were Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle, with $84.6 million; Robert A. Iger of Walt Disney, $51.1 million; Kenneth I. Chenault of American Express, $42.8 million; and Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup, $38.2 million.
 Next were Mark V. Hurd of Hewlett-Packard, $34 million; Jack A. Fusco of Calpine, $32.7 million; and Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation, $30.1 million. 
 Warren E. Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway remained the C.E.O. with the most accumulated wealth; his stock holdings were worth about $40.3 billion as of Dec. 31.
 Most of Mr. Hurd's total compensation came from his $23.9 million cash bonus -- the largest of anyone in the Equilar survey. Last year, Hewlett-Packard reported a 13 percent uptick in revenue on a 15 percent gain in earnings. Shareholder returns, however, fell 25 percent.
 Other executives receiving the largest cash bonuses -- which include those based on performance as well as discretionary ones -- were Mr. Murdoch, with $17.5 million; Mr. Ellison, $10.8 million; and Mr. Iger, $13.9 million.
 CERTAINLY, some of the highest-paid chief executives presided over companies that did very well. Those included Mr. Ellison; Alan G. Lafley of Procter & Gamble; Joseph W. Saunders of Visa, who last year helped guide it through the biggest I.P.O. in history; and Nicholas D. Chabraja of General Dynamics.
 But in other cases, it was harder to see a connection between high pay and performance. That was especially true in the beleaguered financial services industry.
 Citigroup, of course, was one of the most closely watched and most deeply troubled companies last year. Its stock price plunged amid concerns among investors and the public about its viability, which led the federal government to give it bailout money.
 Amid those woes, Mr. Pandit earned a base salary of $958,333 and no bonus. But his stock awards were valued at $28.8 million and his option awards at $8.4 million. (A large chunk of his equity awards were incentives from his appointment as C.E.O.) 
 In a March 20 memo to Citigroup employees, Mr. Pandit addressed what he called the ''tide of negative sentiment rising in Washington'' about executive pay. 
 ''Of course, some of it is warranted,'' he wrote. ''But I take exception when there is a discussion about spreading the blame to each and every employee in the financial services industry. At our company, we removed the people responsible for Citi's financial distress and acted fast to strengthen and streamline the business, and install new risk processes and new risk personnel.'' 
 Not surprisingly, the largest declines in executive pay in 2008 came in financial services, which in past years produced some of the highest-paid executives. Total pay last year in the sector nose-dived 40.1 percent.
 For example, John J. Mack, who took the helm of Morgan Stanley in 2005 and started an aggressive move into high-growth but risky areas like mortgages and leveraged loans, last year saw his pay fall 97 percent. He received $800,000 in base salary, no bonus, $435,097 in perks and no stock or option awards. Morgan Stanley's shareholder returns fell 70 percent last year, and the company lost more than $2 billion in the fourth quarter. 
 The roster of the highest-paid executives is also notable for the names that aren't on it. The most obvious is John A. Thain, the Wall Street whiz and former chief of the New York Stock Exchange. In 2007, he took over Merrill Lynch after the ouster of E. Stanley O'Neal, who presided over the firm's disastrous push into mortgage investments.
 Mr. Thain was the highest-paid executive that year, with a compensation package of almost $83.8 million thanks in large part to a hefty sign-on bonus. He dropped off the Equilar survey because of Merrill Lynch's acquisition by Bank of America. This January, three weeks after Merrill Lynch was sold and lost billions of dollars, Mr. Thain was forced out.
 Also off the list is Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, one of the nine largest financial firms receiving money from the federal government's Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
 Goldman had not yet filed a definitive proxy statement by March 27 and therefore isn't included in the Equilar survey. Other financial companies missing from the list are Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy and sold off its assets; Washington Mutual, which was seized by federal regulators in the largest bank failure in American history; and Wachovia, acquired by its rival Wells Fargo. In all, 41 companies that appeared in the 2007 survey fell off last year and were replaced.
 But three financial firms that received TARP money remain on the list. 
 In addition to Mr. Pandit of Citigroup, Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America last year received a base salary of $1.5 million, but no bonus. He also got $275,125 worth of perks and stock and option awards that brought his total pay package to more than $9 million, down 56 percent from 2007. Last year, his bank's revenue fell 2 percent and net income slid 83 percent. Shareholder returns were down 60 percent. 
 Under Mr. Lewis's direction, Bank of America acquired two troubled giants, Merrill Lynch and Countrywide Financial. The Merrill deal, especially, hurt Bank of America: the brokerage suffered outsize losses even before the acquisition closed. 
 The third C.E.O. on the list whose company received TARP money is Richard D. Fairbank of Capital One Financial, who last year took home one of the lowest total compensation packages. His pay fell nearly 100 percent. For 2008, Mr. Fairbank did not draw a base salary or bonus, but he received perks valued at $68,344.
 SALARY is often a tiny fraction of C.E.O. pay, eclipsed by bonuses, stock and options grants. The 200 executives included in the survey received an aggregate of $447.8 million in cash bonus payouts in 2008. Of this amount, $54.2 million, or 12.1 percent, came in discretionary payments and $393.6 million, or 87.9 percent, was from performance-based payments.
 Among tenured chief executives, the aggregate value of cash bonus payouts dropped $74.9 million, or 16 percent, from 2007 to 2008. For the 162 tenured C.E.O.'s on the list, aggregate payouts in 2008 were $392.1 million, versus $467 million in 2007. 
 Tenured executives' perks and other compensation -- like use of corporate aircraft, relocation expenses, contributions to 401(k)'s and company-paid supplemental life insurance premiums -- fell 5.4 percent, to a median of $211,473 from $223,498 in 2007. 
 The median level of stock awards rose slightly for C.E.O.'s in place two or more years, to $2.68 million from $2.57 million. But the median for option awards slid to $1.87 million from $1.93 million a year earlier, reflecting a trend of awarding fewer stock options. One-quarter of the executives on Equilar's list didn't receive any stock options last year.
 That was true even in the technology sector, where start-ups and emerging public companies traditionally have awarded stock options in lieu of high salaries to give incentives to executives. Option awards among high-tech companies fell 47.3 percent last year, to a median $789,375 from $1.5 million in 2007. In comparison, median stock awards were up 86.7 percent, to $4.4 million from $2.4 million a year earlier. 
 ''Stock options are still a big part of the culture in Silicon Valley and the tech sector over all, but more mature companies like Microsoft have shifted to stock awards as their stock prices become less volatile and options no longer offer the incentive kick that they once had,'' says Alexander Cwirko-Godycki, a research manager at Equilar.
 Beyond the financial industry, total median compensation also fell in such sectors as basic materials and energy, 4 percent; conglomerates, 21 percent; industrials goods, 6 percent; and utilities, 17 percent. Executive pay rose in only four industries: consumer goods, 4 percent; health care, 4 percent; services, 2 percent; and technology, 10 percent. Chief executives in the health care industry last year commanded the highest median pay: $13.8 million. 
 ''We are witnessing a seismic shift among top corporate earners,'' Mr. Cwirko-Godycki says. ''Wall Street and the financial sector were once at the pinnacle of the corporate world, and their pay reflected that. Because of the current crisis, we see new pay leaders emerging, particularly in health care and technology. To some extent, that probably reflects where the future strengths in this economy lie.''
 The question remains whether compensation cutbacks will be enough to placate investors -- and whether they're permanent. Shareholders get their chance to weigh in at this spring's annual meetings, but so far they're not claiming any victories on the pay numbers. While more companies may be starting to tie pay to performance, they are still the exception rather than the rule, shareholder and advocacy groups point out.
 The bottom line should be that ''if there is no performance, there is no bonus,'' says Hye-Won Choi, senior vice president and head of governance for TIAA-CREF, the big pension fund. Obviously, that wasn't the case last year: despite the beating that equities took, only 39 executives in Equilar's survey, or 19.5 percent, didn't receive bonuses. 
 What's also still lacking, corporate governance experts say, is active communication between boards and shareholders. 
 ''This is my skepticism: the numbers may show the links between pay and performance are getting tighter,'' Mr. Davis says. ''But because the dialogue is about nonexistent between boards and shareowners, you just wonder if this is going to be a passing phase.''
 Others agree.
 ''People get religion of sorts about ethics and corporate governance in down markets,'' said James A. Allen, director of capital markets at the nonprofit CFA Institute Center for Financial Market Integrity. ''When things are going well, they tend to forget about it.''
 AS shareholders have watched their holdings shrink, many say they are beginning to realize that passivity can be costly.
 ''With the trillions of dollars that have been wiped out of pension plans and other savings, investors have come to understand they need to pay attention to the governance of corporations -- from compensation to board structures,'' Mr. Davis says. ''If they don't, the cost is going to come out of their pockets. They've got to be engaged.''
 Investor and public concern played a role in bringing down executive pay in 2008, governance experts say. ''The fundamental change is that boards are paying much more attention because of investor and regulatory scrutiny,'' Ms. Choi says. 
 Carol Bowie, head of the governance institute at the RiskMetrics Group, a financial analytics company, concurs: ''If that wasn't the case, you might have seen more discretionary bonuses and retention bonuses. Boards are very attentive to the public scrutiny.''
 TIAA-CREF representatives have sat down with some boards to voice their concerns as shareholders. ''It's not a regular occurrence,'' Ms. Choi says, ''but our view is that it should be. Companies should want to talk to their major holders.''
 ''We want to level the playing field,'' she says. ''Boards need to pay attention to what matters to shareholders.''
 What matters to big shareholders this year, Ms. Choi says, is getting a say on pay and a seat at the table for compensation and other decisions. TIAA-CREF was the first publicly traded company to give its own shareholders a say on pay. Aflac, Verizon Communications, Blockbuster, RiskMetrics and a handful of other companies also have agreed to adopt say on pay, and many other companies are discussing it.
 Say-on-pay resolutions have been common in Britain and Australia for several years. ''Bonuses need to be changed to reward for a combination of past performance and an ability to sustain performance into the future,'' says Andrew Likierman, dean of the London Business School. 
 In the United States, Congress has proposed bills requiring all public companies to establish shareholder advisory votes on compensation. But because public companies operate under state law -- more than half are incorporated in Delaware -- and the votes are advisory, boards don't have any legal obligation to abide by shareholder wishes on compensation.
 Through April 1 this year, investors have filed more than 100 resolutions seeking a say on pay, RiskMetrics found. Last year, such proposals received support from an average of 44 percent of shareholder votes cast. Most of the resolutions are pending, but governance watchdogs expect that many could pass this year, given shareholders' mood.
 Disclosure remains another huge issue for investors. When the Securities and Exchange Commission passed tighter rules for corporate proxies three years ago, it required more information about the methods used to set executive pay. But instead of increasing transparency, the rules have had the unintended consequence of muddying the water with excess verbiage.
 Disclosures about executive pay in proxy statements are ''far too long, far too complex and don't address the real needs of investors,'' Mr. Davis says. ''Too many companies are doing this as a compliance exercise. They're missing the point.''
 For example, the executive compensation portion of I.B.M.'s proxy statement runs to almost 50 pages. Apple -- whose chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, gets a salary of $1 and no bonus -- has a simpler document that includes compensation disclosures for the rest of the top management team as well. Even so, the pay portion in its proxy statement still covers more than 20 pages. 
 Some shareholders are leery that companies facing losses, lower earnings or stock prices in the tank will look for other ways to reward executives, such as repricing or exchanging options that are now ''underwater'' -- essentially worthless unless the share price recovers -- or rewarding discretionary bonuses. 
 ''Putting limits on executive pay is a bit like squeezing on a balloon,'' says Scott A. Fenn, managing director of policy at Proxy Governance, the proxy advisory firm. ''When you squeeze one place, it pops out somewhere else.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 5 about chief executives' pay referred incorrectly to TIAA-CREF, the big pension fund, which was the first company to give shareholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation. It is a private, not public, company. (Aflac was the first public company to give shareholders such a vote.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The value of perks like the use of corporate jets was down 5.4 percent last year for C.E.O.'s in their jobs at least two years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Sanjay K. Jha, new to Motorola, topped the list of earners, bringing in $104.4 million in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Morgan Stanley gave John J. Mack no bonus or stock awards in 2008. He earned $1.2 million, 97 percent less than in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(BU9) PHOTO ILLUSTRATION/CHART: In 2008, median pay of chief executives fell 9 percent, and even more in such sectors as utilities,conglomerates and, especially, finance. Still, many C.E.O.'s were paid large sums, like Sanjay K. Jha, Motorola's co-chief, and Vikram S. Pandit, who presides over the beleaguered Citigroup. Much of their pay, however, was in stock and options that may not be worth as much now.: Change in median C.E.O. pay
Top-paid C.E.O.'s in 2008
 2008 change in median C.E.O. pay by sector (Source: Equilar Inc.)(BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (94%); SHAREHOLDERS (93%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: SANJAY K JHA (71%); JOHN J MACK (68%); VIKRAM PANDIT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



232 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Atop Her Game, Ochoa Finds a Thin Margin for Error

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. 

 BODY:
These should be the best days of Lorena Ochoa's life. After climbing to the top of her profession and making herself at home there, she is preparing for the joys of family and hearth that will follow her wedding in December to the airline executive Andres Conesa. 
 But like the L.P.G.A. Tour that she headlines, Ochoa is struggling to find her mojo. In defending her second major title, the Kraft Nabisco Championship, Ochoa has introduced her legions of fans here to her less saintly side. 
 As she has all week, Ochoa reacted visibly Saturday to all the breaks that did not go her way in her round of par 72. They included -- but were not limited to -- a drive on the 15th hole that came to rest under a tree, and a couple of birdie putts that looked perfect right up until they slid past the cup. Going into the final round, Ochoa is 10 strokes behind the leader, Kristy McPherson, who shot a 70 for a 54-hole total of eight-under 208. 
 Ochoa, who supplanted Annika Sorenstam at No. 1 before this tournament two years ago, is the face of the tour now that Sorenstam, a 10-time major champion, is gone. This is the first major contested since Sorenstam's retirement, and the burden of being everything to everybody has worn Ochoa's smile thinner than a 3-iron. 
 ''There's an awful lot involved with being in the position she's at,'' Ochoa's caddie, Dave Brooker, said. ''It's only natural in life, you become No. 1 and your aim is so stay there. Over the course of time, there's more and more pressure on you.'' 
 Though Ochoa came into the week with one victory and three top-10 finishes in four starts, she said she felt as if she was backpedaling because in 2008 she posted victories in five of her first six events.
 ''We have to be strong enough to deal with everything because that's the way it is,'' Ochoa said. ''For me, I think it has been a learning experience.'' 
 Ochoa's engagement to Conesa, the chief executive of AeroMexico, one of her sponsors, has been part of her learning curve. Since turning pro in the spring of 2002, Ochoa has lived with her family in her hometown, Guadalajara, Mexico, when she is not on the circuit. Now she is dealing with all that comes with buying a home and furnishing it and becoming a stepmother to the divorced Conesa's three children. 
 ''She has a hundred more things to think about,'' Brooker said. ''It's everything that she never had to think about two years ago.'' 
 The tour appears to be in a different place than it was in 2006, before the economy and Michelle Wie's swing collapsed. The 19-year-old Wie came into the week on the short list of pretournament favorites, but after consecutive scores of 81, the disconnect between her play and her perceived image as the female Tiger Woods has never seemed greater. 
 After putting well in her opening-round 71, Wie took 35 putts on Friday and 28 on Saturday during a Rorschach test of a round that included two misses from inside 5 feet. She continues to attract the largest galleries outside of Ochoa's, but in her 17th major -- her first as a card-carrying member of the L.P.G.A. Tour -- the only thing sadder than Wie's putting has been her pouty interviews afterward. Her giggly improvisational act of a few years ago has given way to a politician's practiced monotone. 
 Wie remains popular enough to have drawn 53 fans to the first tee box for her 7:46 a.m. starting time. That was more people than the tournament organizers were able to enlist to serve as volunteer standard bearers during the first two rounds despite e-mail entreaties to Mission Hills Country Club members. 
 With no other means to tell how well most of the golfers outside the range of scoreboards were faring, fans were reduced to reading the players' body language. In the case of Ochoa, it required no extrasensory perception to divine that the defense of her title was not going swimmingly. 
 Through three loops of the Dinah Shore Tournament course, Ochoa has been like a discomfited woman walking. Known for turning the crowds on with her smile, Ochoa has shown rare flashes of anger and frustration. During her third round, she made a bogey at the par-4 13th and tossed her ball into a bush. 
 She has smashed her clubs on the ground as if they were cigarette butts, which is as out of character as Carrie Bradshaw going out for a night with the girls dressed in J. Crew. 
 ''Friends have been calling me asking 'Why is Lorena smashing her club in the ground?' '' Brooker said. 
 His standard reply is that her saintly reputation notwithstanding, she is only human. And with the retirement of Sorenstam and the retreat from the leader board of Wie, a struggling tour trains its lenses on Ochoa. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top-ranked Lorena Ochoa missed a birdie putt on the fourth hole in the third round of the Kraft Nabisco Championship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); GOLF (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); STEPPARENTS (60%)

COMPANY: AEROVIAS DE MEXICO SA DE CV (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481211 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: ANNIKA SORENSTAM (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) MEXICO (70%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



233 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Rising

 BODY:
For much of last week, it was possible to think that the economy was looking up. Various indicators, though weak, were not as bad as expected. The disappointing results from the Group of 20 meeting in London were offset in part by the leaders' display of seriousness and, in particular, President Obama's debut on the world stage. 
 On Friday, reality bit back with the news that the unemployment rate spiked in March, to 8.5 percent, a 25-year high. The government's report also showed that employers had shed 663,000 more jobs in March. Nearly two million jobs have vanished this year -- 5.1 million since the recession began in December 2007. The ranks of the unemployed now stand at 13.2 million. 
 There is no longer any doubt that the current recession will be the longest yet in America since World War II. The previous record-holders -- the contractions of the early 1970s and the early 1980s -- each lasted for 16 months. As of now, the economy already has been in decline for 16 straight months. 
 The questions now are how much longer the recession will be and how much worse it will get. Measured by the labor market, the answer to both questions is ''a lot.'' That is because employers will continue to cut jobs as long as the economy is weakening and will resume hiring only once they are sure a recovery is under way. In this recession, the traditional paths to recovery are especially blocked. Economic rebounds -- especially from steep declines -- are generally led by recovery in the housing market. This time, housing is unlikely to provide the spark. By prudent estimates, housing sales and prices will not begin to turn up appreciably until 2010 at the earliest. 
 Economic rebounds are also marked by recovery in the sales of big-ticket items and by a resurgence in exports, both of which are traditionally dominated by automobiles. Consumers and the auto industry alike are too devastated, however, for automobiles to spur recovery anytime soon, either in terms of sales or employment. 
 In the stimulus bill passed in February, the Obama administration got off to a good start in combating the ravages of unemployment, mainly by bolstering unemployment benefits and health care coverage for the jobless. It is painfully clear, however, that the law's potential to create or save a few million jobs will not be enough to combat the current scale of unemployment.
 More fiscal stimulus will be needed to support more demand and, in turn, more jobs. At the same time, the administration's early promise to champion middle-class issues and a progressive labor agenda must be realized, rather than eclipsed, as appears to be the case at present. Goals like stronger unions will not change the quality of workers' economic life overnight, but moving toward them, starting now, will help to renew the hope that proved so fleeting this week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); LEGISLATION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009



234 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
A HOLIDAY WEEK The bond market will close early on Thursday ahead of the Good Friday holiday, when markets are closed. 
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include consumer credit (Tuesday); wholesale trade inventories for February (Wednesday); and the trade deficit for February (Thursday).
CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Alcoa and Bed Bath & Beyond (Tuesday); and Family Dollar Stores and Constellation Brands (Wednesday).
RETAILING REPORT Retailers will report their comparable-store sales for March (Thursday).
IN WASHINGTON Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, below, is to release his budget recommendations in a proposal that is expected to call for a significant shift in priorities (Monday).
The Federal Reserve will release minutes from its March meeting (Tuesday).
The Federal Communications Commission is expected to open a public inquiry on a national high-speed Internet plan (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (88%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); RETAILERS (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BONDS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); RETAIL SALES (87%); SAME STORE SALES (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (51%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); STZ (NYSE) (57%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%); FDO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (57%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



235 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Transplanting the Legend of the Santa Cruz Surf

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON; Ben Chapman contributed reporting

 BODY:
Bobby Vaughn is from Santa Cruz, legendary in California for its renegade surf culture and rebel wave riders.
Mr. Vaughn says that the Rockaways in Queens have all the ingredients to be the next Santa Cruz: good waves, public housing projects and a growing surf culture. His main problem with the Rockaway surf scene is that it has not embraced its inner gangster.
Enter FTW, the surf shop he opened on Saturday on Beach 116th Street, a half-block from the ocean. Its name is an abbreviation for a vulgar expression used by convicts and bikers. It is also the name of Mr. Vaughn's clothing line and philosophy of life. He has the letters tattooed on his right cheek and inside his lower lip. 
Mr. Vaughn, 34, is undeterred by the recession or by the two other surf shops in the area, including the Rockaway Beach Surf Shop, several doors down. These are mere details in Mr. Vaughn's business plan, which he says is born of a life of daring and hardship.
Mr. Vaughn's ideal surfer is fearless, tattooed and rides an expensive top-of-the-line surfboard decorated with gang tags. His shop exudes tough-surfer chic, from its graffiti-covered surfboards and skateboards to the wall murals in urban spray-can style. Mr. Vaughn believes that this West Coast feel will catch on here.
''Rockaway is ready for a surf scene, and this store has the edge that the hard-core surfers here are looking for,'' he said in the store on Friday, as a group of young local surfers helped him with the finishing touches.
The shop has already created a buzz, partly because of Mr. Vaughn's history -- he helped start the Von Dutch clothing line and has had some serious brushes with the law -- and because the store is the latest sign that Rockaway has arrived as a surf spot.
New York City has designated a section of the beach, near Beach 90th Street, for surfing only. Many houses nearby are rented by groups of surfers seeking a waterfront outpost, and surfboards on the A train are a common sight. With the rise of the urban surfer here, Mr. Vaughn sees a niche in which surfing, fashion and bad-boy street culture converge.
Mr. Vaughn grew up in Santa Cruz with surfing legends like Darryl Virostko, known as Flea, and was part of the so-called Westsiders surf crew, which claimed the famous Steamers Lane as its home surf break.
Mr. Vaughn said that as a teenager he was a competitive surfer endorsed by equipment companies but that he became friendly with gang members. He said he saw his closest friend commit a murder.
Mr. Vaughn went on to prosper, as the Von Dutch line of expensive hats and apparel soared in popularity, gaining favor with the likes of Paris Hilton, Justin Timberlake and Britney Spears. Mr. Vaughn, who became a regular on the celebrity circuit in Los Angeles, wound up splitting with his Von Dutch partners and settled for an amount he recalled on Friday as paltry.
One night in 2005, Mr. Vaughn said, he was with his friend, who had just been released from prison. The friend, Mr. Vaughn said, attacked him with a broken bottle. Mr. Vaughn shot him, fatally, and claimed self-defense. He was found not guilty of first-degree murder.
He came to New York City to start a new life, he said, but was arrested and charged with carrying an unregistered handgun. He pleaded guilty to a felony gun charge and was sentenced to five years probation, which he is still serving. With no job, he risked violating probation and being sent to jail. Then he discovered the waves at Rockaway.
''I gave up on life, and then I came out here and saw the surf here,'' he said. ''I never knew they had surfing in New York City. I got a board and jumped in the water and I just felt reborn.''
The young locals were immediately impressed by Mr. Vaughn's surfing and his past. One surfer's father agreed to invest in the store, in a space that was formerly a shoe store.
''People get intimidated by the gangster look, but I just want to turn my life around, and to show the street kids here -- whether they're surfers or kids from the projects -- that they can do it too,'' he said, detailing his plan to conduct anti-gang initiatives through surfing and skateboarding.
Not everyone is enamored of Mr. Vaughn. His background troubles some residents, and local merchants worry that his store will only add to a seedy side of Beach 116th Street.
But Mr. Vaughn said, ''This is gangster image -- the tattoos, the graffiti -- this is what appeals to street kids, but we're strictly positive.''
Ricky Reyes, 38, a friend from Santa Cruz was visiting on Friday. Mr. Vaughn asked him to open his shirt to show the letters FTW tattooed across his chest.
''My brand is a way of life,'' he said. ''You won't see people tattooing other surf brands on themselves.''
Matt Alessi, 17, a local surfer who works for Mr. Vaughn, nodded and pointed to the retail rack of high-performance surfboards made in Australia.
''You don't see these types of board in Rockaway,'' he said. ''We need someone like this to help put Rockaway on the map as a surf spot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For Bobby Vaughn, who opened a new surf shop in Rockaway Park on Saturday, the ideal surfer is fearless, tattooed and rides an expensive top-of-the-line surfboard decorated with gang tags.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN CHAPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); BEACHES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); WEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



236 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Spartans Hope Greater Cause Will Have Even Greater Effect

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL; Nathan Sandals contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
DETROIT -- Ever the pragmatist, Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo knows precisely the scope of the challenge his team faces against North Carolina in the N.C.A.A. title game on Monday night.
The Spartans lost to North Carolina by 35 points at Ford Field here in December, and there is little doubt that the Tar Heels' talent outclasses Michigan State's. Izzo acknowledges that, on paper, this rematch is a mismatch.
''If we play good and they play good, we're losing,'' he said. ''I don't look at that in the negative. They are the best team in the country.'' 
The tension of Monday night's national title game comes from the matchup between North Carolina's talent and Michigan State's emotion. One of the Spartans' few on-court advantages comes with their depth; they ran 11 players out on the floor in their defeat of Connecticut on Saturday night.
But their biggest edge may come from a reservoir of emotional depth. The Spartans are playing for a home crowd, a struggling city and a shaken state. During down times in Michigan, which has been rocked by the struggles of the automotive industry in addition to the general economic downturn, Michigan State has been a pick-me-up.
''It's a storm in the city,'' Michigan State point guard Kalin Lucas said. ''So we're trying to bring some sunlight to it.''
From the floods of crowds wearing Spartan green and white in the streets to the middle fingers they have seen on their bus rides through the city, North Carolina's players and coaches realize they are facing a city and community bonded by a cause.
''They're a No. 2 seed, but they're everyone's Cinderella right now,'' North Carolina guard Bobby Frasor said. ''They have the whole city behind them.''
Drive away from Ford Field, and the wide avenues that feed into what was once the nation's fourth-largest city are lined with boarded-up buildings and the occasional liquor store.
On Sunday morning, things looked the same but sounded different. Interviews with residents in the downtown area and beyond showed an appreciation for what Michigan State had done. The Spartans will not restore buildings, create jobs or make debt disappear, but they are providing something else.
''Depression, despair is everywhere here,'' Coty Matthews said Sunday morning while waiting for a bus on Grand River Avenue. ''But Michigan State University is giving people a little hope. You can live on hope for a long time.''
Matthews, 38, works at the Detroit Community Health Connection, a nonprofit clinic for low-income patients. The clinic has seen more patients on unemployment and without health insurance in recent months, Matthews said.
The distraction of the Spartans is a welcome one.
''It's like the whole city is alive,'' George Lockett said while waiting for the bus with Matthews.
It felt alive to the Michigan State players on Saturday night, when they simply wore down a taller and more talented Connecticut team with their relentlessness. They gave credit to the partisan crowd and this gritty city for inspiration.
''I think everybody having hard times,'' Travis Walton said. ''Rich people losing their money. Poor people ain't getting no money. I think everybody having a hard time.'' He added: ''You want to play for yourself and your team, but you also want to play for Detroit and your state.''
If the Spartans do win the program's third national title, it will go down as one of the most impressive runs in N.C.A.A. tournament history. North Carolina, in search of its fifth national title, is the third straight No. 1 seed that the Spartans will face. No team has beaten three No. 1 seeds consecutively in the N.C.A.A. tournament and only one, Arizona in 1997, has beaten three No. 1's.
Izzo knows the odds, pointing out: ''I'm realistic, I'm semi-intelligent. I've watched enough film.''
But he knows that the intangible force pushing the Spartans is just as real.
''This is one cause that isn't manufactured,'' Izzo said. ''It's real. People live it every day.''
North Carolina Coach Roy Williams is fond of saying that he has never lost a game to a building.
But Williams did realize that the Tar Heels were facing an opponent bigger than Michigan State and the 50,000-plus fans it would bring Monday.
''I do realize that they have a cause,'' Williams said. ''Well, we also have a cause. We want to win a national championship. Period. The end.''
Williams stressed that for one night, he was not concerned with the local problems: ''If you would tell me that if Michigan State wins, it's going to satisfy the nation's economy, then I'd say, Hell, let's stay poor for a little while longer.''
Even though Michigan State is a No. 2 seed, a victory over North Carolina on Monday night would register as an upset for the ages.
Can a team fueled by emotion beat one that is clearly more talented? An entire city hopes so.
MICHIGAN STATE vs. NORTH CAROLINA Monday, 9:21 p.m. TV: CBS
Correction: April 15, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on April 6 with an article previewing the N.C.A.A. men's basketball championship game between Michigan State and North Carolina misstated, in some copies, the number of national titles won by Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo. It is one, not zero.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITIES (71%); POOR POPULATION (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (99%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



237 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK DAYBOOK

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Free Time to Fill
Thursday. The unfortunate convergence of economic crisis and the city schools' annual spring break, which starts today, is bound to put stress on hard-working parents who can't afford to ship their children off to day care or Cancun. So here's a thought: Put the kids to work. Accountants are always looking for clerical help near tax day and -- as nondiscretionary spending hasn't quite collapsed yet -- there's a good chance bagger jobs are still available at your local D'Agostino. 
A Taste of Anarchy
Saturday, 11 a.m. But perhaps you've grown tired of capitalist economics, that profit-seeking missile that has apparently ripped a hole in our sinking ship of state. If that's so, visit the New York Anarchist Book Fair, a gathering meant ''to provide broader access to the rich and varied field of anarchist ideas.'' Since the 19th century, when Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman preached ''the propaganda of the deed,'' anarchism has survived in New York, a town that's always been hospitable to countercultural notions. Attend seminars on pirate radio and prison abolition. Fed up with the government? So are they. Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Manhattan.
Don't Fret; Fight Debt
Saturday, 8 p.m. The lyrics for ''Cabaret'' got it wrong: It's not money that makes the world go round -- it's debt. In fact, it's possible that people have been gladly paying Tuesday for hamburgers today ever since the first embarrassed cave man went to buy one and found he'd left his wallet in his other pelt. AfterSputnik, a Queens-based grass-roots group, is trying to fight student debt by holding a poetry reading for people saddled with loans from Sallie Mae. A debt haiku: ''My interest payments/sit atop my principal/like ticks on a rat.'' The Metropolitan Building, 44-01 11th Street, Long Island City, Queens. Details: www.aftersputnik.com.
'April Awesomeness'
Sunday, 1 p.m. Now shake off those catastrophic thoughts at ''The Adhocracy of Tulips,'' a spring parade organized by -- who else? -- Brooklyn hipsters. This procession of musicians, circus acts and ''incorrigible ne'er-do-wells'' comes together in the spirit, organizers say, of ''Stravinsky, marshmallow Peeps and maypoles.'' It's supposed to be a bit of ''April awesomeness'' -- whatever that is. Cooper Park, between Sharon and Olive Streets and Maspeth and Morgan Avenues.ALAN FEUER
Parking Rules
Because of Holy Thursday and Passover, alternate-side street cleaning rules are suspended Thursday and Friday.
Submit items for consideration: daybook@nytimes.com
TAKING
QUESTIONS
This week, Jacquie Berger, the executive director of Just Food, a nonprofit group that works to develop a just and sustainable food system in the region, will answer selected readers' questions about community-supported agriculture and other ways to access farm-fresh produce. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); EASTER SEASON (73%); MUSIC (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); POETRY (62%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (53%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



238 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: State Law to Cap Public Defenders' Caseloads, but Only in the City

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
The number of criminal cases that court-appointed lawyers in New York City handle will be capped for the first time under a new law tucked in the $131 billion state budget bill passed last week. The measure addresses longstanding pleas from low-paid public defenders, who sometimes juggle more than 100 cases at a time.
 Public defenders across the country have complained that large caseloads impede their ability to provide the best advocacy and damage their clients' chances of getting a fair hearing in court. 
 Each criminal defense lawyer at the Legal Aid Society, which represents most of the city's indigent defendants, handles an average of 592 cases a year, or about 103 at a time, said Steven Banks, the society's attorney in chief. Heavy caseloads make it difficult for his lawyers to properly investigate cases and pursue leads, Mr. Banks said.
 ''The goal all along has been to ensure that if a New Yorker is charged with a crime, that New Yorker will be represented by a lawyer with an appropriate caseload who can provide the highest quality of representation to protect against wrongful convictions,'' Mr. Banks said.
 While the law applies only to lawyers who represent indigent defendants in New York City, supporters say they hope the guidelines will be expanded.
 The move to address the caseloads in New York City comes amid a national uprising of sorts by public defenders. In at least seven states, government-appointed lawyers either have refused to take new cases or have filed lawsuits to limit them.
 ''People do look to New York to establish different policies,'' said David Carroll, research director for the National Legal Aid and Defender Association. ''We do hope that this becomes a model both for reform for the rest of the state and, hopefully, a model for other large urban centers.''
 Under the law, New York State's chief administrative judge would be required to establish new caseload standards for public defenders by April 1, 2010. The judiciary would then have four years to phase in the limits and ensure proper funding. Despite the state's grim economic condition, the judiciary's budget for the current fiscal year remained stable at $2.57 billion.
 Public defenders have been pleading for help since 1963, when the United States Supreme Court, in its decision in Gideon v. Wainwright, mandated the right to counsel for defendants who cannot afford to hire a lawyer. The Legal Aid Society has long fought the city, which provides most of its financing, over money. Tensions peaked during Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration when the society's lawyers went on strike.
 Jonathan Lippman, the chief judge of the New York Court of Appeals and the head of the state's judicial system, said that allowing four years to phase in the caseload limits would give the judiciary time to plan its budget accordingly.
 ''This is so important to all of us in the justice system,'' said Judge Lippman, who was instrumental in ensuring the legislation's passage. ''This affects what judges do in the courtroom every day. We can't do our jobs unless you have the two key players -- the prosecution and the defense -- on a level playing field.''
 Judge Lippman did not speculate what the caseload limits would be. But in 1995, the Appellate Division in Manhattan adopted caseload guidelines that would amount to public defenders handling roughly 70 cases at a time, Mr. Banks said.
 But those guidelines were not binding, and Legal Aid has been too understaffed to meet them, Mr. Banks said. Last year, the agency had 435 criminal defense lawyers who were responsible for 227,000 new cases, up from 210,000 in 2005, Mr. Banks said. The society's criminal defense division is expecting an $11.3 million shortfall for the fiscal year that starts in July, he said.
 Although easing the caseload for public defenders is a prudent step, said John Feinblatt, the mayor's criminal justice coordinator, it is more important to invest in technology and other resources that help lawyers work more efficiently. The city has already invested millions of dollars to modernize methods of data entry and systems for looking up a client's bail status or the details of a case, Mr. Feinblatt said.
 ''We need to bring this paperbound system into the 21st century,'' he said. ''In the long run, those kinds of investments in technology will be far more important than just counting cases.''
 Prof. Norman Lefstein of the Indiana University School of Law said blanket case limits could cause problems because they could create expectations that some lawyers might not be able to meet. Any standard should take into account a lawyer's ability, the resources available to him or her and the complexity of a case, said Professor Lefstein, who studies indigent defense.
 ''You can't be bound in kind of a robotic fashion by a set of numbers,'' he said.
 But Laura Pitter, who worked for Legal Aid in the Bronx from 2003 to 2008, said caseload caps were ''great and very necessary.''
 When she started at Legal Aid, she said, she handled 70 to 80 cases at a time. Eventually, that number climbed to between 110 and 115 cases, meaning that she sometimes had to make 5 to 10 court appearances a day, she said. Cases were delayed for months or years, she said, while her clients sat in jail or rearranged their lives around court appearances.
 She said she left Legal Aid for private practice because she was overburdened and because she needed to make more money to pay off student loans.
 ''It was becoming impossible to do that job,'' she said. ''Clients suffered enormously.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (94%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (57%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



239 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: At Ford Field, Even College Basketball's Biggest Stage Looks Tiny

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
When Connecticut basketball Coach Jim Calhoun arrived at Ford Field for the Final Four last week, he called the vast, covered football stadium a gym and quickly explained why. 
 ''I call every place a gym, even if it holds 72,000,'' he said. ''That's because I'm older.'' 
 Calhoun is old enough to remember when the Final Four arena had seats for 15,410, as it did in Salt Lake City in 1979. 
 That year Magic Johnson and Michigan State defeated Larry Bird and Indiana State to win an N.C.A.A. championship that propelled the tournament to a higher level of public consciousness and into bigger arenas. 
 The current Spartans beat Calhoun's Huskies on Saturday night before a Final Four record crowd of 72,456. They will play North Carolina on Monday night for the title, an event that will mark another milestone for the sport. 
 Although the championship has been held before in domed football stadiums, this will be the first one played entirely ''in the round,'' with the court in the center of the arena floor. 
 Another capacity crowd is expected for the title game and it could be heavy with Spartan partisans, as it was Saturday. The scene Saturday might have been surreal in some respects, but not unpleasant for most fans. 
 Even the last rows in the corners of the upper deck offered direct sight lines to the floor, a view enhanced by giant television screens on the end walls. 
 ''It's good to be part of the ambience,'' said Mary-Beth Michailoff, a hospital worker from Windsor, Ontario. 
 She sat with her daughter, Alex, in the second-to-last row: Section 315, Row 20, Seats 1 and 2. She said she watched both the court and the TV screen, but, ''I find myself watching the screen more.'' 
 One of the surrealistic touches came over the sound system. To create an atmosphere of intimacy, sounds from microphones on the floor and the backboards were piped into the speakers, meaning the squeak of sneakers and the rattle of the rims could be heard clearly even in the seats farthest from the floor. Greg Shaheen, a senior vice president for the N.C.A.A., said ''we view this as a bit of a laboratory'' and that the experiment was well-received. 
 Conversely, with cheering not reverberating on the court as it does in smaller arenas, the audio environment surprised some players, including Durrell Summers of Michigan State. 
 ''It's a different kind of loud, it's an echoing loud, it's amazing,'' he said of the cheering. With a large group of Spartans fans behind the Michigan State bench and another group far behind the basket at the opposite end, their voices sometimes mixed in delayed waves. 
 Kalin Lucas, a Spartans guard, said he could hear a loud echo as the ball bounced off the floor, and that the acoustics made it difficult for his teammates to hear him call plays. ''I had to do hand signals,'' he said. 
 Some of the worst seats were close to the floor, in the rows directly behind the baskets where students sat. Because the court was raised a couple of feet, television cameras and other baseline obstructions blocked their views. 
 At the start Saturday, a security guard tried to force the Connecticut students to stay seated because, by standing up, they blocked the views of those behind them. But this was like telling an ocean to stop making waves; the guard soon gave up. 
 The large capacity of the arena, along with the recession, might have affected the secondary market for tickets. A fan from Lansing, Al Clark, said his tickets cost $100 each, a modest markup from their $75 face value. Shaheen said more seats meant the N.C.A.A. would get a larger percentage of the revenue.
 Russ Levere of Colchester, Conn., sat in Row 35 of the lower level, opposite the Connecticut bench. He compared it to the XL Center in Hartford, which holds about 16,000 for UConn games. 
 ''This is four times bigger,'' he said. ''This place is huge. When you have this much crowd involvement, it tends to be more exciting than a smaller venue.'' 
 All of Ford Field's seats appeared filled for Saturday's first game, but at least a third of them were empty early in the second half of the second game between North Carolina and Villanova, even though the outcome was still in doubt. 
 Moving into one of them was Diana Mercer-Pryor, a retired Chrysler employee who left a private suite to sit with friends in the back of the lower deck, far behind one of the baskets. 
 ''They did a good job with the arrangement, it's great to have 72,000,'' she said. ''But there would be a little more spirit with less folks.'' 
 Like many fans, Mercer-Pryor said the event was important for economically troubled Detroit. ''I could have seen it better at home on my flat screen,'' she said. ''But it's all about being here. It brings us together. It brings some happiness. It's fun. It's marvelous.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michigan State was humbled by North Carolina, 98-63, in a Dec. 3 game at Ford Field. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BASKETBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (90%); INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



240 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Five Contracts At AT&T End; Talks Continue

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
AT&T said on Sunday that the company was continuing negotiations with a labor union after five contracts covering more than 80,000 of its workers expired on Saturday. 
 The employees in the company's wireline telephone business are still working under the terms of the expired contract, according to AT&T and the Communications Workers of America union. The union has authorized a strike but not yet called on workers to walk out.
 A contract covering an additional 32,000 employees in the Southeast regions had been part of the talks. But the company said that talks for that contract, which expires on Aug. 8, have now been postponed until July.
 Health care costs have been a major point of contention. AT&T says that its workers pay only 8 percent of their health care costs, similar to auto workers, but far less than the 34 percent it says average American workers pay.
 AT&T said that its goal was to achieve a ''more market-based health care plan that continues to provide good health care coverage.''
 The union said in a statement that because the company was profitable even in the tough economy, it was ''difficult to understand why AT&T is demanding workers to take on even more health care costs.''
 The union said that several of its districts had filed charges with the National Labor Relations Board accusing AT&T of refusing to provide ''information necessary to resolve many outstanding issues.''
 ''There has been little progress in the areas of health care, retirement security and employment security,'' the union said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); STRIKES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (54%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



241 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: How to Clean a Dirty Bank

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENFIELD. 
Andrew M. Rosenfield is a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School and the chief executive of an investment advisory firm.

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 COMMERCIAL banks in the United States are not subject to the bankruptcy statute -- when they become insolvent they are simply acquired by the government. This is what banks sign on for in return for a charter, deposit insurance and direct access to the Federal Reserve lending window, which generally allow banks to prosper as long as they control risk. 
 Now Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner wants to apply this same swift acquisition process to large insolvent ''shadow banks'' that risk doing damage to the financial system -- big hedge funds, investment banks, insurance holding companies and the like -- because bankruptcy proceedings move too slowly to allow these institutions to be quickly refinanced or restructured. 
 Secretary Geithner says the lack of a good mechanism to restructure Lehman Brothers contributed to that firm's failure last fall. And it is why the Bush administration's ill-designed overnight infusion of capital into American International Group turned out to be such a mess. The company avoided bankruptcy, but could not be properly restructured. 
 Mr. Geithner is right to want a rapid seizure system for shadow banks. What's odd is that at the same time that he is proposing one, the government is failing to use powers it already has to restructure insolvent commercial banks. Instead, Mr. Geithner continues to suggest a variety of other actions that seem unlikely to solve the banks' central problem -- a lack of equity capital. Perhaps he fears what would happen if large bank holding companies were to default on their bonds, which are held by insurance companies and other institutional investors. But that is a problem that needs to be tackled head-on, not by propping up failing banks. 
 Consider what happens when the government acquires an insolvent bank. The shareholders and the debt holders of the bank's holding company may be essentially wiped out -- even as the bank itself is merged into another institution. That is what happened, for example, when JPMorgan Chase ''acquired'' Washington Mutual bank; its holding company promptly went bankrupt. This approach allows the market to properly discipline banks. The fear of loss gives investors the critical incentive to deny capital to those that take excessive risks. Also, when the price of a bank holding company's stock and debt plummets, it is an early warning of trouble. 
 Treasury's new plan, the Public-Private Investment Program, reduces that incentive by preserving shareholder and debt holder ownership of insolvent banks. It also injects capital into those banks in a roundabout, unproductive way. Under the program, the government will help private investors buy at auction the banks' toxic assets (what Treasury now calls ''legacy assets''). Private firms will use government funds, along with some money of their own, to buy the assets at prices above current market value. 
 The government will bear almost all the exposure to losses from these transactions, but earn only a small fraction of any profits. Another problem is that if the buyers of these assets harvest significant gains, they will have to worry that Congress might seek to recapture the money in the future, as it has threatened to in the recent bonus turmoil at A.I.G. This fear will lower the bids and therefore the amount paid for the toxic assets. 
 Even if it is successful, the program will add very little new capital to the banks -- roughly only the amount paid for toxic assets that is over and above their current value. 
 There is a simpler, sounder and fairer way to recapitalize an insolvent bank. The government should seize it, as it is already authorized -- indeed, compelled -- to do. Then it could inject cash (in the form of Treasury notes) as equity in the bank and, at the same time, remove the toxic assets the bank holds. Bank regulators might perhaps swap Treasury securities for toxic assets ''at par'' -- that is, in an amount equal to the original purchase price of the assets removed. This would be a fair transaction, and it would cost nothing, because the government would own both the bank and the bonds. The toxic assets could then be placed in the basement of the Treasury building while we wait to see what they turn out to be worth. 
 The government could then quickly -- say within a month -- auction off the bank. Speed would be critical: If Treasury were to hold a large bank for a long time, it would be difficult to retain the most talented employees, and it is the people, along with a clean balance sheet, that make a bank valuable. 
 If markets work at all (and if they don't, Treasury's new plan is doomed to fail), such an auction would produce a new privately owned ''clean'' bank, with ample capital to lend. It would also generate proceeds from the sale that would be at least as great as the value of the securities injected into the bank as equity -- and likely greater.
 If the recapitalized bank could not be sold at a price that amounts to (at least) the new cash injected, then the bank would be worthless, but not because of the toxic asset problem. It would be because the bank has been mismanaged or has other bad loans unrelated to the mortgage crisis, and such a bank should be allowed to fail.
 If the sale succeeds, however, the government would have created a fully financed private bank at essentially no incremental cost to taxpayers, and Treasury would still hold the toxic assets on its books -- to be sold whenever it becomes economical to do so. 
 This is a simple and fair plan. And unlike the Public-Private Investment Program, it would not reward bank investors for their folly or inject too little capital when more is needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INSURANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



242 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: High-Octane Box Office For 'Fast' Franchise

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A tuned up ''Fast & Furious'' zoomed to No. 1 at the weekend box office, selling an unexpectedly strong $72.5 million in tickets in North American theaters. 
 The result -- more summer than spring, which is typically a quiet moviegoing period -- reignites a film franchise that had been dismissed by Hollywood, if not Universal Pictures, after a disappointing third installment in 2006. That movie, ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift,'' stalled after selling just $62.5 million at domestic theaters, less than half the total of each of its two predecessors, ''The Fast and the Furious'' and ''2 Fast 2 Furious.''
 But Universal and its financing partner, Relativity Media, decided to place another bet on the street-racing franchise. Research showed that audiences were still keenly interested in Vin Diesel, who moved on after headlining the original ''The Fast and the Furious.'' If it could get other members of the original cast to return, Universal figured moviegoers would turn out for a fourth movie -- and bring their kids. 
 ''I'm euphoric that our production team had the foresight to do this even though people snickered,'' said Nikki Rocco, president of Universal Pictures distribution. ''We saw an opening for a big action movie in April and decided to bite the bullet.''
 Ms. Rocco said that interest across ethnic groups helped fuel ticket sales, validating the studio's decision to pitch the movie aggressively to Hispanic audiences. In ''Fast & Furious'' a fugitive ex-con (Mr. Diesel) reluctantly teams up with an F.B.I. agent (Paul Walker) to infiltrate a heroin-importing operation in Mexico and Los Angeles.
 Universal's creative team is starting to become known for spotting life in ideas that other industry experts feel have burned out. Last summer the studio turned ''Hellboy II: The Golden Army'' into a hit after Sony Pictures Entertainment passed on making a sequel.
 ''Fast & Furious'' may have also benefited from a boom in moviegoing that many experts have tied to a need for affordable entertainment during the recession. Total ticket sales for the year are $2.73 billion, a 15 percent increase over the same period last year, according to Media by Numbers, a box-office tracking firm. Attendance is up 13 percent. 
 The previous weekend's top movie, ''Monsters vs. Aliens'' from DreamWorks Animation, was in second place this past weekend. That movie sold an estimated $33.5 million in tickets, according to Box Office Mojo, for a cumulative domestic total of $105.7 million.
 Rounding out the Top Five were the horror film ''The Haunting in Connecticut'' from Lionsgate, with an estimated $9.6 million ($37.2 million); the thriller ''Knowing'' from Summit Entertainment, with an estimated $8.1 million ($58.2 million); and the buddy comedy ''I Love You, Man'' from Paramount Pictures and DreamWorks, with an estimated $7.9 million ($49.3 million).
 The only other movie of note to open over the weekend was ''Adventureland,'' a dramatic comedy from Miramax. That low-budget, R-rated picture sold an estimated $6 million in tickets in a medium-sized run in theaters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HORROR FILMS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); ANIMATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); HEROIN (50%); ETHNICITY (50%)

COMPANY: SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (50%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



243 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: With the Car Industry in Trouble, Nissan Rolls Out the Mobile Device

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FORGET about thinking outside the box -- or inside it, for that matter. Nissan Motor is betting an estimated $20 million during the worst automotive sales slump in a generation that a spirited campaign can get drivers to forgo the box for the cube.
 Actually, it is the Cube, as in the Nissan Cube, a cute, smallish car scheduled to go on sale on May 5. And scratch the word ''car,'' for the campaign to introduce the Cube in the United States, which begins on Monday, takes a big step, er, outside the box by calling it a ''mobile device.'' 
 The phrase, borrowed from the digital domain, signals that the intended market for the Cube is younger drivers. It also signals the focus of the campaign: presenting the Cube as a part of a fun, busy life that can be customized and personalized as easily as a cellphone ring tone or a Facebook page.
 To underscore all that, the campaign borrows terms from technology like ''search engine,'' ''browse,'' ''storage capacity,'' ''add friends'' and ''set preferences'' to describe features of the Cube. And the media mix skews decidedly toward nontraditional elements like iPhone games, wallpapers, text messaging, the Internet and MP3 downloads.
 The ads in the traditional media also come in 2.0 versions. For instance, commercials are labeled ''all-screen videos,'' because they are meant to appear on computer screens, screens in movie theaters and cellphone screens as well as on television screens.
 The Cube is entering a crowded category of the depressed auto market composed of niche models meant as emotional purchases rather than rational. Such cars are intended to attract attention for unusual design rather than horsepower, bling or fuel economy. Examples include Chevrolet HHR, Fiat Qubo, Ford Edge, Honda Element, Honda Fit, Kia Soul, Mini Cooper, Smart Fortwo and Toyota Scion. 
 Niche models tend to appeal to younger drivers, as should the Cube, or at least its price: starting at $13,990 (and $695 in destination charges). For many, the Cube is likely to be their first car -- assuming, that is, they have jobs, credit and enough confidence to face the uncertain economy.
 As challenging as the climate may be, ''we think the Cube's a perfect vehicle for this time'' because ''it offers a tremendous value,'' said Erich Marx, director for marketing communications for the Nissan division at Nissan North America in Nashville, a unit of Nissan Motor of Japan.
 For those who may still need a boost into the driver's seat, said Phil O'Connor, senior manager for marketing communications at the division, ''we've got a number of plans in place to help that customer,'' including enabling buyers with ''a limited amount of credit history to get financing.''
 Still, conditions may deter even the most determined customers. Nissan sales in this country in March fell 37.7 percent from March 2008. They declined 35.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with the same period last year.
 ''We've certainly assessed various options through the filter of what's going on with the economy,'' Mr. Marx said, ''but we're sticking with our launch plan.''
 ''The first half of 2009 is protected in every sense,'' he added, referring to elaborate introductions for the Cube and the Nissan 370Z sports coupe. ''There's no hunkering down.''
 The campaign is starting a month before the Cube goes on sale to pique curiosity -- or, as the intended audience would say, build buzz -- about the car, whose offbeat looks and quirky sales pitch may prove polarizing.
 The first look at the campaign will come during the episode of ''Heroes'' scheduled to be broadcast by NBC on Monday night. The Cube plays a cameo role, part of a long-running branded entertainment deal between Nissan North America and NBC, part of the NBC Universal unit of General Electric.
 After the episode appears, a Cube commercial -- or all-screen video, if you are Cubean -- will go up on a Facebook fan page for the car.
 The Cube will also be featured in an online graphic novel devoted to ''Heroes'' that is sponsored by Nissan North America; it can be read on a section of the NBC Web site (nbc.com/heroes/novels). Plans include a contest on the Web site to give away a Cube.
 ''This is a tough time to bring anything out, whether a car or a new TV,'' acknowledged Kerry Feuerman, group creative director at the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, which is the Nissan North America creative agency.
 ''So we decided we wouldn't think about it as a car,'' he added, but rather ''position it as designed to bring young people together -- like every mobile device they have.''
 Of course, TBWA/Chiat/Day is not unfamiliar with such devices; it is the creative agency for the iPhone.
 TBWA/Chiat/Day is creating the aspects of the Cube campaign that include the videos, print and outdoor ads, social media like Facebook, the iPhone games and the music downloads.
 The ''Heroes'' appearance was handled by a sibling Omnicom agency, OMD, along with media buying. OMD is also working with TBWA/Chiat/Day on events and other so-called experiential marketing elements of the introduction.
 The Designory, a Long Beach, Calif., agency, is working on Cube content for the Nissan Web site (nissanusa.com). 
 Those with long memories may recall a soundalike brand, Qube, a cable TV system begun in 1977 that prefigured services like pay-per-view shows. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nissan is marketing its quirky Cube car, for young drivers, during one of the worst auto sales slumps ever. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); SMARTPHONES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (84%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (51%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



244 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words

 BODY:
SUMMERS'S SIDE JOBLawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and now the chief economic adviser to the president, earned millions from one of the world's largest hedge funds, working there one day a week. 
 I.B.M. ENDS SUN TALKS After weeks of talks, I.B.M. withdrew its $7 billion bid for Sun Microsystems, a day after Sun's board balked at a reduced offer, people close to the talks said. [B1.]
 LIMITS ON SHORT-SALES Federal officials are planning to permanently limit short-selling on Wall Street, which could shore up stock prices. Some critics say, however, that the measures could undermine the integrity of the markets. [B1.] 
 ANIMATED ANGST ''Up,'' the latest film from Pixar Animation Studios, is expected to be a critical and commercial success, but Wall Street has its doubts about the extent of its moneymaking potential. [B1.]
 WHAT'S IN PRINT? Pat Kiernan, a morning anchor on NY1, the New York City cable news channel, quirkily reviews the day's papers. Now he has a national edition, online. [B4.]
 CAR CZAR-LITESteven Rattner, a well-known media banker, is playing a crucial role for Washington as he advises the Detroit automakers on their overhauls. If he succeeds, he may get a chance at another, larger job in the administration. [B1.]
 THE CELLPHONE MODEL The digital marketplace has strained many in the media realm, but one industry has thrived: the phone companies, which make sure not to give away entertainment. [B1.]
 INTO NEW ORLEANS ''Treme,'' an HBO series by David Simon, tells the story of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. The series is separated by just enough time to offer insight without being overly detached. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 DIGITAL HEALTH RECORDS NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is moving beyond the pilot project stage on consumer-controlled digital health records, a move that will be closely watched by other institutions. [B3.]
 GOOGLE APPS AND MORE Google engineers develop touch-screen phone applications for blind users; the cable industry is taking a hint from Apple; wireless is being added to diverse devices; an iPhone app generates passwords. Bits. [B6.]
 NEW CAPITAL FOR BANKHSBC Holdings raised nearly $18 billion by issuing new shares to investors, one of the largest such offerings in British history. [B3.]
 FREE MUSIC IN CHINA Google is teaming with big record labels to let Chinese Web surfers freely download music using its site. It hopes to build traffic and win new advertisers. [B4.]
 ICELANDIC IRE An article by the author Michael Lewis in Vanity Fair about Iceland's financial crisis upset some online readers in the country, one of whom called it an ''attack on Iceland.'' [B4.]
 TROUBLE FOR A REVIEW When Roger Friedman, an entertainment columnist for FoxNews.com, reviewed a pirated version of ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine,'' the reprimands came swiftly. [B4.]
 ANDROID IN THE HOME T-Mobile is planning to sell a home phone early next year and soon after a tablet computer, both running Google's Android operating system, according to confidential documents obtained from one of the company's partners. [B6.]
 UNPACKING THE CUBENissan Motor is presenting a new car to the niche market, the Cube, which it is promoting to young people by positioning the car as a ''mobile device.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B9.]
 CONTRACT TALKS AT AT&T AT&T was continuing negotiations with a labor union after five contracts covering more than 80,000 workers expired. [B9.]
 U.S. OPEN TO BANK SHAKE-UPS Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told ''Face the Nation'' on CBS that he was prepared to oust the senior management and directors at banks that require extensive federal aid. [B10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); SMARTPHONES (69%); WRITERS (68%); MEDICAL RECORDS (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); INTERNET AUDIO (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ICELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



245 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: This Old Wasteful House

BYLINE: By RICHARD MOE. 
Richard Moe is the president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 NEVER before has America had so many compelling reasons to preserve the homes in its older residential neighborhoods. We need to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions. We want to create jobs, and revitalize the neighborhoods where millions of Americans live. All of this could be accomplished by making older homes more energy-efficient. 
 Let's begin with energy consumption and emissions. Forty-three percent of America's carbon emissions come from heating, cooling, lighting and operating our buildings. Older homes are particularly wasteful: Homes built in 1939 or before use around 50 percent more energy per square foot than those constructed in 2000. But with significant improvements and retrofits, these structures could perform on a par with newer homes. 
 So how does a homeowner go green? The first step is an energy audit by a local utility. These audits can be obtained in many communities at little or no cost. They help identify the sources of heat loss, allowing homeowners to make informed decisions about how to reduce energy use in the most cost-effective way. 
 Homeowners are likely to discover that much of the energy loss comes down to a lack of insulation in attics and basements. Sealing other air leaks also helps. This can be done by installing dryer vent seals that open only when the dryer is in use, as well as fireplace draft stoppers and attic door covers.
 Experience has shown that virtually any older or historic house can become more energy-efficient without losing its character. Restoring the original features of older houses -- like porches, awnings and shutters -- can maximize shade and insulation. Older wooden windows perform very well when properly weatherized -- this includes caulking, insulation and weather stripping -- and assisted by the addition of a good storm window. Weatherizing leaky windows in most cases is much cheaper than installing replacements. 
 The good news is that the administration is taking steps to help homes save energy with a program that will invest almost $8 billion in state and local weatherization and energy-efficiency efforts. The Weatherization Assistance Program, aimed at low-income families, will allow an average investment of up to $6,500 per home in energy efficiency upgrades. 
 My organization is also working with the Natural Resources Defense Council and members of Congress on legislation to help cover the costs of making all older homes more energy-efficient. Under this proposal, a homeowner would receive a $3,000 incentive for improving energy efficiency by 20 percent, and $150 for each additional percentage point of energy savings. If 3,000 homes could be retrofitted each year, we estimate that after 10 years we could see a reduction of 65 million metric tons of carbon emitted into the atmosphere, and the equivalent of 200 million barrels of oil saved.
 The labor-intensive process of rehabilitating older buildings would also create jobs, and this labor can't be shipped overseas. The wages would stay in the community, supporting local businesses and significantly increasing household incomes -- just the kind of boost the American economy needs right now. 
 Before demolishing an old building to make way for a new one, consider the amount of energy required to manufacture, transport and assemble the pieces of that building. With the destruction of the building, all that energy is utterly wasted. Then think about the additional energy required for the demolition itself, not to mention for new construction. Preserving a building is the ultimate act of recycling.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Monday, about renovating older houses to save energy, included an incorrect figure for the number of homes that would need to be retrofitted every year to save 200 million barrels of oil over a decade. The figure is 300,000, not 3,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); FAMILY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



246 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; RADIO REVIEW 'ISRAEL'S BARRIER'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: The Two Sides of One Wall: NPR Reports on the Mideast

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
''Israel's Barrier,'' a four-part National Public Radio report that begins Monday on the afternoon newsmagazine ''All Things Considered,'' addresses two seemingly intractable issues. One is the report's subject: the effects of the system of fences and walls, begun in 2002 and still under construction, that separates Israel from the Palestinian West Bank. 
 The other -- of less historical importance but of more immediate concern to NPR's management -- is the implied question of how a mainstream news organization stays competitive and relevant during a time of layoffs, cutbacks and general panic about the future of the business.
 NPR is billing ''Israel's Barrier'' as its ''most extensive single multimedia report to date.'' In addition to the traditional radio segments, which will total about 30 minutes over four days, there is an ambitious presentation at npr.org: the segments as both audio files and transcripts; related videos and slide shows; a map of the wall's progress.
 The project, which is the work of the reporter Eric Westervelt and the photographer David Gilkey, is a series of vignettes of life along the wall. Frustrated workers wait at gates for hours; a Palestinian in Bethlehem, cut off from his job in Jerusalem, sits around the house watching Arabic soap operas. Israelis cite a 90 percent drop in suicide attacks; Palestinians point to the significant chunk of the West Bank that now lies on the Israeli side of the wall or has been confiscated for the barrier itself, a wide swath of fences, trenches, checkpoints and holding areas.
 The package is everything you would expect from NPR: intelligent, informative and polished to a high, somewhat narcoticizing sheen. But it also seems a curious choice, considering the resources and promotion the network is giving it. It's not entirely untimely, with President Obama wrapping up his first official overseas trip. But with United States unemployment at more than 13 million and mass shootings nearing epidemic proportions, is the Israeli defense barrier really the subject that will draw America's attention to NPR's Web site? (Those who go there will find some nice photos but only a smidgen more of information; for the most part the online component recycles the radio report into words and pictures, and the video and photo presentations are surprisingly basic.)
 NPR has said that its total audience is at near record levels, even as financial pressures led it to cut about 7 percent of its employees in December. That kind of audience loyalty can leave you locked in a comfort zone, and there has been no more comfortable media experience for decades now than listening to NPR. 
 At the same time NPR News maintains 17 foreign bureaus and is about to open one in Pakistan, and who else, at the moment, can say that? So here's hoping that ''Israel's Barrier,'' modest as it might be, is a step in the right direction.
 ALL THINGS CONSIDERED 
 Israel's Barrier
 NPR and npr.org, Monday through Thursday afternoons (check local listings).
 Eric Westervelt, reporter; David Gilkey, photographer and multimedia producer; Doug Roberts, foreign producer; Nelson Hsu, designer; Maureen Pao, producer; Keith Jenkins, supervising multimedia producer; supervising editor, Meghan Collins Sullivan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Israeli soldier stands guard at a checkpoint along the wall that divides Israel from the Palestinian West Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GILKEY/NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); SHOOTINGS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); PAKISTAN (79%)

TITLE: Israel's Barrier (Radio Program); Israel's Barrier (Radio Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



247 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Tennecticut's Success: Too Much of a Good Thing?

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: St. Louis 

 BODY:
 Sherri Coale gave a predictable answer to the question about predictability. The indifferent masses, she said, do not need to read another headline that tells them what they think they already know -- that women's college basketball is all about a two-headed monster named Tennecticut. The same old same old is not good for the game forever.
 ''Parity,'' she said, ''is always good for growth.'' 
 Sunday night was surely not profitable for her Oklahoma Sooners, who lost a 12-point halftime lead and a 61-59 heartbreaker to the gallant Angel McCoughtry and Louisville in what unofficially was designated as the losers' bracket, opposite the 38-0 Connecticut machine that rolled over Stanford, its Final Four conqueror last year, 83-64.
 Oklahoma, it turned out, was another pretender, despite Courtney Paris's ballyhooed pledge to pay back her scholarship if she didn't help deliver a title in this her senior year. If a male player had said that, the offer would have dismissed as something young people say, and ultimately regret. In the end, a tearful Paris talked about how she and her beloved teammates would have play dates with their children some day. Consider it perspective gained the hard way. The brave talk of a new women's order would be left for someone else. 
 Growth -- always a subtext at the women's Final Four and at most gatherings of female athletes -- is good, as long as it steers clear of greed. But interest facilitates growth and what is it that creates the most interest, superpower dominance or brackets that read like an open book?
 I have been coming to the women's Final Four since 1997 and have watched some other very good teams roll around the court on the final night of the season. Purdue in 1999; Notre Dame in 2001; Baylor in 2005; Maryland in 2006 -- that's four non-UConn or Tennessee champions in 12 years. Granted, one third is not a percentage that meets anyone's idea of parity, but it does lend faith to those who insist that the Connecticut-Tennessee cold war will not be the overriding narrative in the sport for much longer. 
 Then again, Tennessee was in the middle of a threepeat my first Final Four year and now scary-good Connecticut, after a two-year reign by Tennessee with Candace Parker, will play for its sixth title since 1995 Tuesday against Louisville, which it beat, 75-36, last month in the Big East tournament. 
 I have heard people argue that with the women's game still struggling to crowd arenas until the Final Four and producing microscopic television ratings, any form of familiarity is preferable to serving up programs that carry no historical hooks. UConn Coach Geno Auriemma isn't one of them -- though how can any coach, even one with the habit of being audaciously honest, come right out and say that what's good for me is best for we?
 ''I would say that one thing we all want is the sport to be unpredictable in some ways,'' he said. ''We want there to be upsets in every other region and in our region, but we don't want it to include us.''
 Leave it to Auriemma to straddle the line between diplomacy and self-interest.
 Back in 1997, I remember running into Nancy Lieberman, who was one of the signature stars of the late 1970s (at Old Dominion) when the Final Four was practically played in the dark, and her telling me: ''Four college teams made money this year. Other schools will see that.'' In the ensuing years, more universities awakened to the women's sports movement and to Title IX accountability, but there probably aren't many more than four that make money on women's basketball.
 Growth has mainly been measured in a participatory sense, and that's nothing to apologize for. More important, the women's game has generally continued to avoid becoming the daughter of the men's Frankenstein monster with few behavioral embarrassments and strong graduation rates. At the same time, outside the ESPN bubble, it seems to me that national news media support for the Final Four has dropped off from a few years ago.
 Coale cited Louisville's first Final Four and now title game appearance as evidence that the wealth of winning is being generously redistributed. ''It's obviously tough to break through that when those sorts of dynasties are in place, but I think you're continuing to see that,'' she said. ''I think we saw more upsets in the N.C.A.A. tournament this year than we've ever seen.''
 People complain about N.F.L. parity, but pro football is more popular than ever. The Yankees haven't been to the World Series since 2003, yet baseball found itself flush with cash, at least until the economy crashed. But comparisons to men's sports invariably break down. Their fan bases are already large and loyal.
 Probably the best-case scenario for the women's college game is the Patriots-Giants dynamic, in which Tennecticut is pushed hard to survive at the finish or, better yet, slain. For the sake of growth, Goliath must occasionally go down. Does Louisville have enough David to do it? More likely, we are looking at another UConn execution slash coronation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tennessee and Connecticut, above after winning its regional, have dominated in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM LARSEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); TOURNAMENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



248 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: When 'S.V.U.' Stands for 'Shopping Victims United'

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
They say that gamblers like to ''play the percentages.'' As the recession drags on, shoppers are doing the same, seeking stores where the signs promise sale prices that are 50, 60, 70 percent or more off regular prices.
 Many retailers that do not typically offer such large discounts found themselves forced to do so last Christmas or risk losing what business there was to rivals that were more willing to slash prices. The consumers' pursuit of percent-off deals has continued into the new year, bringing prices that seem like holiday specials throughout the winter and into spring.
 For retailers that always offer discount prices, the economic downturn offers an opportunity to introduce themselves to new customers as well as encourage regulars to return more often. The risk is, of course, that they will have a hard time competing with stores that are just now learning the power of ads declaring ''50 percent off,'' ''60 percent off'' or ''75 percent off.''
 A case in point is the K&G Fashion Superstore chain, owned by Men's Wearhouse Inc. K&G's point of differentiation is that it sells the same brands and styles of clothes as found in department stores at everyday prices that are up to 60 percent less. 
 To sharpen the distinction with department stores, as many of them uncharacteristically offer frequent huge discounts on merchandise, K&G is sponsoring a campaign that carries the assertive theme ''Fashion without the victim.'' The premise is that overpaying on apparel is a crime, which can be averted by shopping at the 108 K&G stores in markets like Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, New York, Philadelphia and Washington.
 Some ads in the campaign make the comparison to criminal activity quite clear. In one television commercial, a woman suffering shopper's remorse calls a 911 operator to report she was ''robbed'' by a clerk in a department store who ''took my money, and all I got was this dress.''
 In a coming television commercial, a man complains to the judge of a make-believe TV courtroom show that he was ''scammed'' out of hundreds of dollars by a clerk who sold him a suit in a department store.
 And in a so-called guerrilla component of the campaign, which K&G is considering, outlines of dresses and pants, resembling the outlines of bodies chalked on crime scenes by the police, would be stenciled on sidewalks with the admonition, ''Don't fall victim to department store prices.''
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $15 million to $20 million, is being created by DeVito/Verdi in New York, which since the fall has created campaigns for K&G, Men's Wearhouse and the other chains owned by Men's Wearhouse Inc.
 Ads for the Men's Wearhouse store are more low key than the new K&G campaign. Most feature the founder, George A. Zimmer, and promotions like a buy-one, get-one-free sale on suits.
 The campaign for K&G seeks to make waves because its goal is to ''drive awareness'' for the K&G brand, says Mary Beth Blake, president at K&G Fashion Superstore in Atlanta.
 Plans for such an awareness campaign predate the financial crisis, she adds, but ''we tweaked it as economic condition worsened,'' principally by ''making the pricing message more hard-hitting than what we were planning.''
 ''We knew business was going to be difficult,'' Ms. Blake says, so the idea of ''Fashion without the victim'' is intended to stand out from all the ads in the competitive retail category.
 ''We want to educate shoppers that they would be making a huge mistake if they continue to shop at department stores,'' she adds, because they would be ''overpaying for department store clothing'' that could be bought for less at K&G.
 As for the stepped-up sales pitches from department stores that are discounting prices more frequently, Ms. Blake says, she is not too worried.
 The promise of 60 percent off department store prices at K&G ''is every day,'' Ms. Blake says, compared with occasional sales at the department stores, which means the lower prices are available on ''Day One, versus having to wait.''
 And the apparel at K&G is new, she adds, not clearance or closeouts.
 The word play involving ''fashion victim'' and crime continues in other elements of the campaign.
 In radio commercials, an announcer declares: ''Department stores are robbing people every day. So we thought we'd teach them a lesson.''
 What follows are mock calls to department stores in which a caller claims he has kidnapped a mannequin or tries to blackmail the stores with compromising photographs of a mannequin wearing lingerie.
 In a coming television commercial, viewers watch a young man committing a crime: spray-painting the window of a store with graffiti. On closer inspection, it turns out he has drawn a red circle around a mannequin dressed in men's clothes and alongside wrote these words: ''Available at K&G 60% less.''
 Some elements of the campaign skip the crime stories. For instance, one TV commercial features a young woman trying on a dress in a fitting room.
 ''I don't know, what do you think?'' she asks a man nearby. ''Should I get it?''
 The reply comes from just about every man in the store. ''Yes,'' they boom in unison. An announcer says: ''Our fashions are up to 60 percent less than department stores. But they work just fine.''
 And another guerrilla component of the campaign being considered by K&G features words that would be stenciled around the storm drains in the parking lots of shopping malls. ''Don't throw your money down the drain,'' the words would read. ''Shop K&G.''
 Until now, says Andy Brief, director for account services at DeVito/Verdi, K&G had been ''suffering from a share-of-voice deficit'' in the crowded retail category.
 And with so many chains advertising discounts, ''to just rely on the percent off would not differentiate or break through,'' he adds.
 So the campaign has ''created the department store as a foil,'' Mr. Brief says, ''the bad guy, which makes it more interesting'' than ''trying to shout the price proposition.''
 And the theme ''plays both ways,'' he adds, because by using the word fashion it tells shoppers that the K&G ''store concept is more than about price.''
 The K&G campaign brings to mind previous work from DeVito/Verdi for retailers, particularly a New York clothing discounter named Daffy's. The Daffy's ads became well-known in the 1990s for their cheeky, playful tone.
 ''If you're paying over $100 for a dress shirt,'' one Daffy's ad asked, ''may we suggest a jacket to go with it?'' The photograph showed a straitjacket. (The ad generated considerable attention, not to mention complaints from advocates for the mentally ill.)
 Another ad for Daffy's read: ''The suggested retail price of this shirt is $125. We have a suggestion for whoever suggested it.'' The photograph showed a shirt with the sleeves arranged in an obscene gesture.
 Asked if the attitude embodied by the K&G campaign echoes the attitude of the Daffy's ads, Mr. Brief replies: ''I guess I could see that. The idea of clothes for less is not exactly the most unique strategy, so you look for points of differentiation.''
 Even so, the K&G campaign is meant to be ''completely dissimilar,'' he says, by using ''the department store as the villain,'' whereas the message of the Daffy's ads was ''Don't be an idiot'' by buying apparel at full price.
 (Actually, Mr. Brief did not say ''idiot.'' He used an earthy Yiddish word that is evocative of what he calls ''the voice'' of the Daffy's campaign.)
 Ms. Blake, when asked about the Daffy's campaign, laughs. She recalls the ads, including the straitjacket ad, she says, because ''I have been traveling to the city for many years.''
 In fact, Ms. Blake says, she was at the flagship Saks Fifth Avenue store last November when concerns over sluggish pre-holiday volume led the store to sharply discount full-price merchandise, offering shoppers the kinds of big percent-off prices they would find at K&G.
 ''No one's spending,'' Ms. Blake says, unless there are ''deals'' or ''a strong value proposition.'' 
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%)

COMPANY: MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (82%)

TICKER: MW (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (82%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (82%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (82%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (82%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (68%); DALLAS, TX, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); TEXAS, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



249 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Said To End Talks To Buy Sun

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
I.B.M. withdrew its $7 billion bid for Sun Microsystems on Sunday, one day after Sun's board balked at a reduced offer, according to three people close to the talks.
 The deal's collapse after weeks of negotiations raises questions about Sun's next step, since the I.B.M. offer was far above the value of the Silicon Valley company's shares when news of the I.B.M. offer first surfaced last month. Sun, an innovative pioneer in computer workstations, servers and Internet-era software, has struggled in recent years and spent months trying to secure a suitor. 
 With I.B.M. and others shying away from a deal, a bruised Sun could be forced to continue pursuing a solo business model whose prospects have been questioned by many analysts. 
 Had it bought Sun, I.B.M. would have become the dominant supplier of high-priced Unix servers and gained the rights to a number of popular business software franchises, including the Java technology used on many Web sites. The deal would have also helped I.B.M. compete against the hardware breadth of rival Hewlett-Packard and given it some momentum to combat Oracle's ever-expanding business software empire. However, I.B.M. also faced the likelihood of antitrust reviews tied to the stronger positions in Unix servers and mainframe storage that it would have gained under the deal. 
 I.B.M. had a team of more than 100 lawyers conducting due-diligence research on potential problems in a purchase of Sun, ranging from those antitrust concerns to Sun's contracts with employees and I.B.M. competitors.
 After the legal review, I.B.M. shaved its offer Saturday from $9.55 a share, the proposal on the table late last week, to $9.40 a share, said one person familiar with the talks. The offer was presented to Sun's board on Saturday, and the board balked. The Sun board did not reject the offer outright, but wanted certain guarantees that the I.B.M. side considered ''onerous,'' according to that person.
 Sun then said it would no longer abide by its exclusive negotiating agreement with I.B.M., a second person familiar with the discussions said. On Sunday, I.B.M.'s board decided to withdraw the offer.
 The breakdown in the talks, said the second person close to the negotiations, came over the shifting balance of price and conditions for the deal.
 For example, I.B.M. scrutinized the ''change of control'' contracts with Sun executives, senior engineers and managers. I.B.M. felt that the payments to senior employees were higher and extended more broadly across the company than it had anticipated. I.B.M. pointed to the change of control contracts as one reason it was reducing its offer price.
 Sun was most concerned about securing tighter provisions to restrict I.B.M.'s ability to walk away from the deal. 
 Whether the I.B.M. decision amounts to a negotiating tactic to get agreement on the final sticking points is unclear. Though the offer is off the table for now, the two sides could resume bargaining if Sun's share price drops from its $8.49 close on Friday and major investors pressure the company to come to an agreement. 
 ''There's lots of testosterone going back and forth,'' said a third person familiar with the discussions.
 All three people who discussed the deal would speak only on condition of anonymity because details of the merger talks are confidential.
 Since last year, Sun executives had been meeting with potential buyers. I.B.M. stepped up, seeing an opportunity to add to its large software business, acquire valuable researchers and consolidate the market for data center hardware.
 In their talks, I.B.M. and Sun had a contract to deal with each other exclusively. Now Sun is free to pursue other suitors, including I.B.M. rivals like H.P. and Cisco Systems. Cisco recently entered the market for server computers.
 The breakup of the deal, analysts say, is a blow to Sun's prospects. ''For I.B.M., given its size, this was never a transformational deal,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for the investment research firm Sanford C. Bernstein. ''But in Sun's case, it's an extremely material event.''
 ''This leaves Sun in a tough situation,'' Mr. Sacconaghi added. ''Sun was on a path to selling itself, and this will inevitably raise questions in customers' minds, no matter what Sun says, about its commitment to a go-it-alone strategy.''
 Sun's management has come under repeated criticism for committing ever more deeply to a strategy that revolved around open-source software. Thus far, Sun has struggled to use the freely available software as a means of garnering related technology services contracts or hardware sales. The underlying strategy will probably face even more scrutiny now that customers and investors know that Sun had sought an exit through a deal with I.B.M. 
 ''Sun is now sort of damaged goods,'' Peter Falvey, the co-founder of Revolution Partners, a technology-focused investment bank, wrote in an e-mail message. 
 Late last year, Sun started to provide more detail than ever before about the sales of its various hardware and software businesses. Some people on Wall Street characterized the gesture as a type of advertisement to potential buyers, as Sun tried to highlight areas of growth. But the move may backfire later this month when Sun is scheduled to report its third-quarter results, which could reflect lackluster sales amid a broad slump in technology spending because of the recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (70%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (68%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (67%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (90%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



250 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: For Film and TV Extras, Cash Helps and Stars Amuse

BYLINE: By SARAH TOLAND

 BODY:
Laid off in December from a private equity firm downtown, Trent Calabretta, 26, found himself last month within a cubicle's length of Angelina Jolie on a Manhattan set for the movie ''Salt.'' 
 ''I'm not one to get star-struck, but it was a bit surreal,'' Mr. Calabretta said. ''There were thousands of people there, and we were going up and down Park Avenue for this one parade scene. People were playing military officials and past presidents, and everyone was in different uniforms, and we were all trying to come together to shoot this one scene. When I saw Jolie, my first thought was, 'Well, she's definitely not ugly.' '' 
 The $8 an hour Mr. Calabretta earned as a nonunion extra -- more recently, he was on the set of the CW's ''Gossip Girl'' -- will not cover the $1,750-per-month rent on his Upper East Side apartment, but he hopes the money he saved during three and a half years in finance will last until he finds a similar job. 
 ''I've gotten a few paychecks as an extra, but I haven't even looked at them yet,'' Mr. Calabretta said. ''My intention is to get back into finance, and in the interim, I'm going to keep doing these fun little side jobs.''
 Managers at casting agencies around New York said they were seeing increasing numbers of people like Mr. Calabretta who have little experience in, or even aspirations for, acting, but are filling hours they used to spend at office jobs with gigs as extra, also called background, talent. 
 At Extra Talent Agency, a Manhattan firm that casts extras for commercials, television shows and documentary films, the actor database swelled to 9,680 in March from 6,850 in December. Fleet Emerson, assistant casting director at Sylvia Fay/Lee Genick and Associates Casting, has seen correspondence from aspiring extras triple over the past several months, something he called ''quite a phenomenon.'' And Grant Wilfley Casting, also in Manhattan, had open calls for new background talent in February and March that yielded 1,500 and 1,300 people, respectively.
 ''We were overwhelmed,'' said Melissa Braun, senior casting associate at Grant Wilfley. ''In past years, it would have been very unusual to see that many people at an open call.'' 
 Brad Kenney, manager of Central Casting New York, a major Manhattan agency that places extras on shows like ''Law & Order'' and ''CSI: NY,'' said the agency registers nearly 60 people on a nonunion day now, up from 30 or 40 a day six months ago. ''People are much more aware that there's a lot of stuff being filmed in the city now, and there's so much more greater interest,'' he said. ''There's also much more people desperate for work.''
 Jamieson Van Loan, a graduate of the Institute of Culinary Education in Manhattan who lost her job at a catering company in January, recently spent several days playing a baker in the background of a movie starring Meryl Streep currently known as the ''Untitled Nancy Meyers Project.''
 ''I jumped at the chance to do it,'' said Ms. Van Loan, who first appeared as an extra on ''Dawson's Creek'' while in college and is hoping to do more acting as she looks for full-time work as a chef. ''Doing background work is one of those things that, if it comes up, I'll definitely do it,'' she said. ''It's fun, and it's easy money.''
 While acting is a temporary pursuit for Ms. Van Loan and Mr. Calabretta, some of the newly minted extras said they felt they had found a calling. Daniel Roy was a board operator and studio technician at Sirius Satellite Radio until he lost his job in December 2007. One unpaid gig on a friend's independent film and some extra work on television shows, and Mr. Roy, of Jersey City, was ready to forget radio and pursue acting as a career.
 ''I felt like I was good at what I was doing and that I'm still young enough to give this acting thing a whirl,'' said Mr. Roy, 26. ''If I never had lost my job, I would probably not be acting now.'' 
 Colin Whitfield, 30, is a Brooklyn-based visual artist who does background work whenever he needs additional income. ''There's a whole subculture of people in the city who make their living as extras,'' he said. ''Many extras are like the Lost Boys -- outside-of-the-box individuals who come from inside-the-box places, like the suburbs. When they get on set, they find a family of eclectic, creative types, and it's like, 'Welcome to the crew.' ''
 Although Mr. Whitfield said he does not have the stamina to endure life as a full-time extra, which inevitably includes back-to-back 12-hour days on set, he understands the lure.
 ''Money be damned, the idea of being on a set with the cameras rolling has a whole Hollywood mystique to it that keeps these kids going,'' he said. ''It's not the long hours or the terrible paycheck -- it's the glamour.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the growing number of the unemployed seeking work as film and television extras in New York misstated part of the name of one Manhattan casting agency in some editions. It is the Extra Talent Agency, not Extra Talent Management.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trent Calabretta lost his job at a private equity firm in December. As an extra, he landed on the set of the CW show ''Gossip Girl.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE CASTING (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TALENT AGENTS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



251 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: President's Agenda Demands a Star Player

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
At this peak moment of college basketball fervor, President Obama likens Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to an underappreciated teammate who ''gets that extra rebound, takes the charge, makes that extra pass.''
 To realize the enormous ambition of his presidency, Mr. Obama must be something else: a star versatile enough to play every position.
 After returning from his overseas trip, Mr. Obama will showcase signs that more Americans can now refinance their mortgages. He needs such progress to sustain Main Street support through the populist frenzy against Wall Street bailouts. 
 Ten days ago, Mr. Obama hosted bank executives at the White House to coax continued participation in his financial recovery plans. Taxpayer anger notwithstanding, he needs the bankers, too.
 Last week, Mr. Obama met with President Hu Jintao of China, a country that for years fueled America's consumption boom through inexpensive exports and purchases of American debt. For the foreseeable future, Mr. Obama also needs more loans from China.
 The latest signs suggest that Mr. Obama has played each role adroitly so far. Even as the recession drags on, his poll ratings remain robust, the stock market has been rising, and he has accepted President Hu's invitation to visit Beijing this year.
 But the game has barely started.
 Using Critical Skills
 To each constituency, Mr. Obama has delivered a multilayered message that makes his challenge steeper.
 For average Americans, he has offered short-term relief from the pain of joblessness, home foreclosures and dwindling retirement savings. But he has also called for a long-term shift -- away from familiar levels of consumption, and toward more rigorous emphases on education, savings and investments.
 For bankers, he has coupled support for bailouts with calls for tougher regulation and changes in the high-rolling habits of executive compensation. He aims to supplant a business culture of financial wizardry with one of entrepreneurial innovation.
 For China, his pledge to maintain fiscal responsibility, which would preserve the dollar as a haven for foreign cash, comes with a warning: do not count on ''voracious'' American consumerism to power your future growth.
 Taken together, those messages show his aspiration to shift the foundations of economic activity, in the United States and around the world. The individual elements of Mr. Obama's agenda aim toward that goal, and toward his social and national security objectives.
 In Mr. Obama's vision, reflected in both the economic stimulus package this year and his budget plan, education improvements would equalize opportunity and raise future productivity. Health reform would cover the uninsured but also reduce costs to government and corporations, ameliorating Washington's long-run fiscal crisis and making businesses more globally competitive. Alternative energy projects would prompt innovation while decreasing dependence on a volatile Middle East. 
 By linking short-term palliatives to long-term changes, Mr. Obama in some ways aims higher than President Franklin D. Roosevelt did in grasping for solutions to the Great Depression. 
 Homing in on root causes, said Daron Shaw, a political scientist who was a campaign strategist for President George W. Bush, fits the public mood after longstanding governmental failures on all those issues.
 Stuart E. Eizenstat, a lawyer who is a veteran of the administrations of Lyndon B. Johnson, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, praised Mr. Obama for bringing to the task three critical elements of presidential leadership. The first two, he said, are high intelligence and the ability to connect disparate issues in a larger framework.
 ''The third element is the ability to communicate in our diverse, heterogeneous country with a variety of constituencies,'' Mr. Eizenstat said. Unlike any recent president except Mr. Clinton, he said, Mr. Obama ''has the entire package of skills.''
 Staying in the Game
 The president's enthusiastic reception in Europe reinforced that conclusion. In a Facebook posting, Steven Clemons of the centrist New America Foundation wondered tongue-in-cheek ''which world leaders will catch Obama's head cold -- and whether they will use this politically to show their closeness to him.''
 Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a longtime Republican strategist, concluded that ''the president did well,'' adding, ''His intelligence, his grace, his wit and his eloquence all reinforce his political skills.''
 Yet overconfidence in those skills could still trip him up. Mr. Obama's policy agenda leans too far left, Mr. Cole argued, for even a politician of his talents to sell it to a Democratic Congress or to most voters.
 Which frames a question about Mr. Obama's presidency that cannot be answered after just 75 days. Thirty years ago, a young Michigan State star named Earvin Johnson Jr. emerged from the college basketball tournament as one of the most versatile players of all time.
 Can Mr. Obama demonstrate a comparable magic?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ATHLETES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (56%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HU JINTAO (86%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



252 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Citing Rising Risk,Obama Seeks Nuclear Arms Cuts: Warns of Spread of Bomb Technology in Black Market

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER; Helene Cooper reported from Prague, and David E. Sanger from Vienna. Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from the United Nations.

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
Hours after North Korea's missile test, President Obama on Sunday called for new United Nations sanctions and laid out a new approach to American nuclear disarmament policy -- one intended to strengthen the United States and its allies in halting proliferation.
 ''In a strange turn of history, the threat of global nuclear war has gone down, but the risk of a nuclear attack has gone up,'' Mr. Obama told a huge crowd in Prague's central square. ''Black market trade in nuclear secrets and nuclear materials abound. The technology to build a bomb has spread.'' 
 And yet, he said, too few resources have been committed to developing a strategy to stop terrorist groups like Al Qaeda that are ''determined to buy, build or steal'' a bomb.
 Mr. Obama said that his administration would ''reduce the role of nuclear weapons'' in its national security strategy, and would urge other countries to do the same. He pointed to the agreement he reached last week with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia to begin negotiations on reducing warheads and stockpiles, and said the two countries would try to reach an agreement by the end of the year. He also promised to aggressively pursue American ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, which in the past has faced strong opposition in Congress. 
 It is a strategy based on the idea that if the United States shows it is willing to greatly shrink the size of its atomic arsenal, ban nuclear testing and cut off the worldwide production of bomb material, reluctant allies and partners around the world will be more likely to rewrite nuclear treaties and enforce sanctions against North Korea and Iran.
 In his speech, he said North Korea's missile test illustrated ''the need for action, not just this afternoon at the U.N. Security Council, but in our determination to prevent the spread of these weapons.''
 ''Rules must be binding,'' he said. ''Violations must be punished. Words must mean something.'' Those words were added to the end of a long-planned arms control speech hours before, after the president was awakened at 4:30 a.m. by his press secretary, Robert Gibbs, with news of North Korea's defiance. 
 The president quickly began talks with senior officials, including Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, his former rival who offered up the now famous ''It's 3 a.m. and the telephone rings'' campaign advertisement that was meant to show that Mr. Obama was not prepared to deal with an international crisis.
 Mrs. Clinton talked to South Korean, Russian, Chinese and Japanese officials, administration officials said. Mr. Obama, meanwhile, got on the phone with Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. James E. Cartwright, the vice chairman. He also spoke by phone to Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and huddled with Gen. James L. Jones, his national security adviser, before heading to Prague's central square to address the crowd there.
 Despite his calls for action, it remained unclear exactly what the West would be able to do to punish North Korea. President George W. Bush pressed for similar sanctions after the North's nuclear test in October 2006, but they had little long-term effect.
 At the United Nations Security Council on Sunday, members were at an impasse on whether to condemn the test. The United States and its main allies -- Japan, France and Britain -- were pushing for a resolution denouncing the launching as a violation of the 2006 sanctions, which demanded that North Korea suspend any activity related to the launching of ballistic missiles.
 As talks continued after a three-hour emergency session ended inconclusively, diplomats said a main issue would be determining if the failed launching violated any resolutions.
 ''We think that what was launched is not the issue; the fact that there was a launch using ballistic missile technology is itself a clear violation,'' said Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador. 
 China left its position ambiguous, although diplomats said that at the initial meeting it stressed that the North Koreans had a right like any other country to launch satellites. ''Our position is that all countries concerned should show restraint and refrain from taking actions that might lead to increased tensions,'' Yesui Zhang, the Chinese ambassador, told reporters. 
 Igor N. Schcherbak, the Russian envoy, said that his country did not think it was a violation of the previous resolutions banning ballistic missiles, but he left some wriggle room by saying that Russia was studying the matter. 
 In his speech, Mr. Obama said he still planned to continue with missile defense, but he tied the need for such a system to any Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons. Russia opposes locating a defense shield in Poland and the Czech Republic, as current plans call for, and Mr. Obama has responded by pushing the Russians to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
 Missile defense is a resonant issue in Prague, since the now-collapsed government of Prime Minister Marek Topolanek went to bat against popular opinion here to support the missile shield, only to have the Obama administration begin backing away from the plan. But Mr. Obama praised the government's support, saying there was still a need.
 ''Let me be clear: Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile activity poses a real threat, not just to the United States, but to Iran's neighbors and our allies,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The Czech Republic and Poland have been courageous in agreeing to host a defense against these missiles. As long as the threat from Iran persists, we will go forward with a missile defense system that is cost-effective and proven.'' 
 Despite his categorization of Iran and North Korea as threats, the new nuclear strategy as laid out in his speech sidestepped the question of exactly how to handle them, or the risk posed by Pakistan's nuclear arsenal.
 Those cases have proved to be some of the hardest in modern nuclear strategy. And they prompt a question that has haunted past administrations: How do you compel a country to stop its drive for nuclear weapons when sanctions fail and military action seems far too risky?
 Past threats to isolate Iran were stymied first by high oil prices -- which washed away the effects of modest economic sanctions -- and then by Iran's determination to enrich uranium no matter the cost. Mr. Obama has said he will try to engage Iran, but that has raised concerns both within the administration and among allies that the country's nuclear program would be able to progress while talks proceeded.
 Perhaps trying not to overload a Pakistani government that has shown itself to be overwhelmed by daily political and terrorist attacks, Mr. Obama made only oblique mention of a concern voiced frequently inside the White House: That Al Qaeda and other terrorists view Pakistan's arsenal of 60 to 100 weapons as the ultimate goal of a campaign to destabilize that government.
 On the North Korean issue, President Bush's six-party talks, a process that Mr. Obama has embraced, set up a diplomatic framework. But they still failed to prevent the country from harvesting the fuel for six or eight weapons, testing one device, and advancing plans to test missiles.
 The diplomatic challenge was underscored again while North Korea was preparing its latest missile test. In London last week, Mr. Obama raised the imminent test with President Hu Jintao of China, whom the United States has relied on to influence the North. A senior administration official, briefing reporters, said he believed the Chinese had expressed concerns to the North, urging it to halt the flight. 
 If so, Beijing was ignored -- as it was twice in 2006, when it told the North not to conduct missile tests and then its nuclear test. That suggests, one of Mr. Obama's aides said Sunday, ''that either the Chinese aren't trying very hard, or the North Koreans aren't listening very well.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about President Obama's proposal for halting the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which he announced on Sunday while visiting the Czech Republic, misspelled the given name of the Czech prime minister. He is Mirek Topolanek, not Marek.
Because of an editing error, an article on April 6 about a new strategy by President Obama for halting the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which he announced while visiting the Czech Republic, referred incorrectly to the square where Mr. Obama gave a speech on his proposals. He spoke in the square outside of Prague Castle; residents there do not consider that to be their city's ''central square.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Vaclav Klaus, right, the Czech president, in Prague on Sunday. Mr. Obama addressed some 20,000 people in front of Prague Castle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VACLAV KLAUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



253 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief Says He's Open To Ousting Heads of Frail Banks

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner says he is prepared to oust the senior management and directors at banks that require extensive aid from the federal government.
 ''If in the future, banks need exceptional assistance in order to get through this, then we will make sure that assistance comes,'' while ensuring that taxpayers are protected, Mr. Geithner said Sunday in an interview on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''Where that requires a change in management and the board, then we will do that.'' 
 Mr. Geithner said the chief executives of the American International Group, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had been removed after it became clear the companies could not survive without government rescues. The Treasury is reviewing how much capital the biggest financial companies would need to endure a severe economic downturn.
 ''Where we've had to do exceptional things,'' the government has replaced management and boards, Mr. Geithner said.
 Mr. Geithner made the pledge as signs emerge that the world economy may be stabilizing. Confidence among American consumers rose last month from the lowest level on record, the Conference Board said. Home prices in Britain rose in March for the first time since October 2007, while Chinese manufacturing increased, reports said last week. 
 Mr. Geithner pledged to enforce Congressional legislation that limits pay at companies receiving government loans. Mr. Geithner said the Obama administration has no intention of letting banks get around the rules.
 ''Our obligation is to apply the laws that Congress just passed,'' he said. ''We want the American taxpayers' assistance going to generate greater lending, not providing excess compensation.''
 Mr. Geithner, who accompanied President Obama to London last week for a meeting of the Group of 20 policy makers, also said the administration would ''keep acting as forcefully as we can'' to pull the nation out of a recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner appeared Sunday on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARIN COOPER/CBS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RECESSION (73%); REAL ESTATE (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); HOME PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



254 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Farm Workers' Rights, 70 Years Overdue

 BODY:
It is more than bank failures and rising unemployment that give these troubled times echoes of the 1930s. An unfinished labor battle from the New Deal is being waged again. 
 The goal is to win basic rights that farm and domestic workers were denied more than 70 years ago, when the Roosevelt administration won major reforms protecting other workers in areas like overtime and disability pay, days of rest and union organizing.
 That inequality is a perverse holdover from the Jim Crow era. Segregationist Southern Democrats in Congress could not abide giving African-Americans, who then made up most of the farm and domestic labor force, an equal footing in the workplace with whites. President Roosevelt's compromise simply wrote workers in those industries out of the New Deal. 
 They were thus sidelined from the labor movement, with predictable results. Though the Dixiecrats have all long since died or repented, the injustice they spawned has never been corrected. Poverty, brutal working conditions and legally sanctioned discrimination persist for new generations of laborers, who are now mostly Latino immigrants. 
 In New York, advocates are pressing for passage of the Farmworkers Fair Labor Practices Act, which would give these workers the rights that others have long taken for granted, as well as seek badly needed improvements in safety and sanitary conditions in the fields. Domestic workers, meanwhile, are seeking a ''Bill of Rights'' in Albany covering things like overtime pay, cost-of-living raises and health benefits.
 A separate effort begun last week seeks to end these stubbornly lingering injustices for workers in all states by fixing federal law. It was announced on Cesar Chavez's birthday by old lions of his movement, including Jerry Cohen, who as general counsel of the United Farm Workers helped win passage of a landmark 1975 California law that secured unprecedented rights for the state's farm workers. The campaign has been joined by a growing number of labor groups and immigrant advocates, like Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles and the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, which represents migrant workers in the Midwest and North Carolina. 
 In both campaigns, advocates are counting on a changed political landscape to help their cause. But even with Democrats controlling the New York Legislature, the farm worker bill has languished. It faces fierce opposition from growers and has been eclipsed by the entropy and fiscal crises of Gov. David Paterson's Albany. In Washington, labor advocates are preoccupied by different battles, like the fight for the pro-union Employee Free Choice Act. Other long-sought immigration reforms have taken a back seat to the budget and health care.
 But farm workers are used to long, hard slogs and pitiless heat and cold, with justice as their distant but inevitable destination. The advocates see President Obama and Governor Paterson as ideal candidates to take them there, and are not about to give up. ''Any just national labor law reform must include farm workers and domestics,'' Mr. Cohen wrote to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, stating an obvious and compelling truth. ''If not now, when?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (93%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); GOVERNORS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



255 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: A Bank Rescue Plan Doomed to Fail?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama's Ersatz Capitalism,'' by Joseph E. Stiglitz (Op-Ed, April 1):
 After reading of the Obama administration's planned ripoff of the taxpayer with its latest scheme to reward Wall Street and the banks, I have a suggestion for Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the National Economic Council, and Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary: 
 Closet yourselves in a locked room with Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman and try to make your voodoo economics argument. 
 Two financial forecasting failures versus two Nobelists in economics should prove to be no contest. They might even come up with a solution to the continuing disaster afflicting us all.
 Roy Moore Wakefield, Mass., April 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In calling the bank recovery plan a ''win-win-lose,'' Joseph E. Stiglitz ignores its greatest potential upside: an again-functional finance sector and renewed economic growth. 
 Whether the government makes or loses money on the partnerships the plan proposes, the taxpayer will benefit tremendously if that plan renews confidence and thus lending.
 And from the perspective of the Treasury, the increased tax revenue from that recovery could well exceed any losses.
 Describing the administration plan's value to taxpayers without considering its potential effect on recovery is misleading or, at the very least, meaningless.
 Stephen Serene Cambridge, Mass., April 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As a financial reporter for 20 years until 2000 for various wire services, I recall that the handling of the failure of Continental Illinois and the various savings and loans was done relatively quickly and without excessive cost to taxpayers. 
 Now, as Joseph E. Stiglitz explains, the administration's plan will not only be costly to us, the taxpayers, but it also won't deal with the Wall Street culture that gave rise to those toxic assets in the first place. 
 Business as usual -- some key players are gone, many have lost jobs, but ''Damn the TARP regulations, full speed ahead!''
 I am encouraged that the columnists and Op-Ed writers who chasten the administration for its poorly thought-out plan are always on the top 10 ''most e-mailed'' list. It is only by educating ourselves and making our protests known to those in power that we can defeat corporate welfare. 
 Yes, we can!
 Anne Croly Bronx, April 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Joseph E. Stiglitz gave a nice academic view of the Obama bank rescue plan. The analysis described the way the world ought to work, according to theory, but that isn't the way the world really works. A few things are missing. First, the time element. 
 The longer the delay in starting to break the logjam, the worse the problem will get. Second, partly wrong is better than dead right. 
 For all sorts of human reasons of perception and emotion and factionalism, the general public and Congress won't stand for Mr. Stiglitz's clean, perfect solution, which is just to buy out or co-opt or ''nationalize'' the mess. But they will go along, grudgingly and grumblingly, with the imperfect solution, which is a compromise between public and private action and public and private consequences.
 And third, the alternatives that were posed as fixed and absolute are, in fact, malleable. The imperfect solution can be improved as we go along. If, in fact, the deal being offered is as attractive to investors, and as unfair to taxpayers, as portrayed, then the initial offerings will be snapped up right away, the logjam will start to break, and subsequent offers can be, step by step, adjusted to more reasonable proportions. 
 So, as classroom economics, the bank rescue plan is flawed. As real-world leadership, it is stunningly appropriate.
 Robert Rennick Colorado Springs, April 1, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 I have no argument with Joseph E. Stiglitz's assertion that the taxpayer is the loser in the Obama administration's bank bailout. Equally true is that the money has to come from somewhere to recapitalize our financial institutions, which benefits everyone. My hope is for a more progressive tax code that makes the well-heeled beneficiaries of the bailout pay a fairer share of their winnings for the common good.
 Michael Colacchio San Anselmo, Calif., April 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The attitude of Joseph E. Stiglitz is similar to that of a baseball manager who eliminates the sacrifice bunt because he cannot stand a temporary loss, even to enhance the promise of success in the context of the total game. 
 Getting rid of the toxic assets, even at a loss, is aimed at allowing credit to flow to business again, leading to jobs and increased tax revenue as a comprehensive strategy for recovery. 
 Arthur E. Goldfeder Lantana, Fla., April 1, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



256 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: A Rich Education for Summers (After Harvard)

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Lawrence H. Summers plays down his stint in the hedge fund business as a mere part-time job -- but the financial and intellectual rewards that he gained there would make even most full-time workers envious.
 Mr. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and Harvard president who is now the chief economic adviser to President Obama, earned nearly $5.2 million in just the last of his two years at one of the world's largest funds, according to financial records released Friday by the White House. 
 Impressive as that might sound, it is all the more considering that Mr. Summers worked there just one day a week.
 Much is known about Mr. Summers's days in Washington and Cambridge, but little attention has been paid to his two years in New York, from late 2006 to late 2008, advising an elite corps of math wizards and scientists devising investment strategies for D. E. Shaw & Company. 
 Mr. Summers said in an interview that his experience at Shaw, however brief, gave him valuable insight into the practical realities of Wall Street, insight he is now putting to use in shaping economic policy in the White House.
 ''I have a better sense of how market participants sort of think and react to things from sort of listening to the conversations and listening to the way the traders at D. E. Shaw thought,'' he said. 
 Mr. Summers and Shaw executives say his role there was to be a sounding board for Shaw's traders. But interviews with friends and former colleagues suggest that Mr. Summers's role at D. E. Shaw was wider and more complex. 
 Mr. Summers, these people say, was a marquee hire, a prized spokesman for Shaw. He routinely made himself available for private consultations with Shaw's clients, an attractive perk for investing with the firm, as one client put it. 
 Mr. Summers, who taught economics and public policy at Harvard while advising Shaw, also met with investors in the United States, as well as in the cash-rich Middle East and Asia. He spoke at industry conferences, mixing with officials from public pension funds, endowments and other large institutions with many billions of dollars to invest.
 While at Shaw, Mr. Summers also peered into the inner workings of the $2 trillion hedge fund industry, which the Obama administration is now relying on to buy billions of dollars of worrisome assets from the nation's beleaguered banks.
 Some of his critics worry that such ties raise questions about whether the government's ever-changing effort to bolster the financial industry will benefit Wall Street in general, and hedge funds in particular, at the expense of taxpayers. 
 ''This is what might be called contamination,'' said Andrew Sabl, an associate professor of public policy at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''Did Summers spend so much time with the hedge fund, or its investors, sovereign wealth funds and so on, that he started to think like them?''
 Mr. Summers joined the hedge fund world after his tempestuous, five-year term as the president of Harvard came to an unhappy end in February 2006, after a statement he made that women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science. 
 It was at that time, to the surprise of some colleagues, that Mr. Summers seriously contemplated his options on Wall Street in part because he believed his chances to return to a prominent position in Washington had dimmed, friends say. 
 Although he once compared finance to ketchup sales, Mr. Summers discussed job possibilities with Goldman Sachs, long considered the premier Wall Street bank, and with Citigroup, where Robert E. Rubin, Mr. Summers's predecessor as Treasury secretary, had become a senior adviser. 
 Then a young Harvard graduate named Julius Gaudio, whom Mr. Summers had met at alumni events, raised another possibility: D. E. Shaw, where Mr. Gaudio is a managing director. As part of Shaw's rigorous screening process -- the firm accepts perhaps one out of every 500 applicants -- Mr. Summers was asked to solve math puzzles. He passed, and the job was his. 
 In a rare interview, David E. Shaw, who founded the firm in 1988 above a communist book shop in Greenwich Village, put it simply: Mr. Summers is ''a brilliant, brilliant guy.'' That is from a former computer science professor at Columbia who now spends his time researching areas like treatments for cancer, while others run his hedge fund day-to-day.
 D. E. Shaw does not like to talk about what goes on inside its modish headquarters near Times Square. There, esoteric trading strategies are imagined, sketched on whiteboards and modeled on supercomputers by an elite corps of math wizards and scientists, most of them unknown to the outside world. 
 It is nothing like a button-down Wall Street brokerage firm. Jeans, sweatshirts and sandals are common. The firm has not one, but two libraries, where textbooks on computer coding are stacked near academic finance journals dating to the 1960s. For a time, the decor included light bulbs strung from the ceiling on various lengths of wire, each determined by a computerized random-number generator.
 It is a quicksilver business and wildly lucrative. Mr. Shaw is said to be worth $2.7 billion, and today his firm manages $30 billion.
 At Shaw, Mr. Summers, the professor, was often the student. The arrogant personal style that turned off some Harvard colleagues seemed to evaporate, Shaw traders say. Mr. Summers immersed himself in dynamic hedging, Libor rates and other financial arcana. 
 He seemed to fit in among Shaw's math-loving ''quants,'' as devotees of math-heavy quantitative investing are known. Traders joked that Mr. Summers was the first quant Treasury secretary because he had once ordered dollar bills to be printed with the transcendental number pi -- 3.14159... -- as the serial number. 
 ''We could call or e-mail him anytime,'' a former Shaw trader said. ''He always asked me more questions than I could ask him. He would dig through my entire way of thinking.''
 At Harvard and at Shaw, Mr. Summers cultivated a small circle of financial professionals -- particularly hedge fund managers -- to serve as an informal brain trust. He consults with them on policy matters from his perch in the White House.
 Among these insiders are Kenneth D. Brody and Frank P. Brosens, the founding partners of another hedge fund, Taconic Capital Advisors, for whom Mr. Summers did consulting work from 2004 to 2006. 
 Mr. Summers reached out to Mr. Brosens in December to discuss the Obama administration's economic priorities. This year, he campaigned to have him run the federal office overseeing the $700 billion bailout program. Mr. Brosens withdrew his name from consideration last month. 
 Others in this inner circle include Nancy Zimmerman, a longtime friend and hedge fund manager in Boston; Laurence D. Fink, the chairman and chief executive of BlackRock, a large money management company that hopes to play a potentially lucrative role in the administration's bank rescue plan; H. Rodgin Cohen, the chairman of the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, who was briefly considered for a senior Treasury post; and three other top fund managers, Orin S. Kramer, Ralph L. Schlosstein and Eric M. Mindich.
 Friends of Mr. Summers say he has always been meticulous about avoiding conflicts of interest and that he was just as careful at D. E. Shaw. For instance, Mr. Summers went to lengths to pay the Social Security taxes on payments he made to even occasional babysitters from the 1980s, said Jeremy Bulow, an economics professor at Stanford, who has known Mr. Summers since graduate school. 
 ''To Larry, it was not about figuring out where the line is and making sure you're on one side of it,'' Mr. Bulow said. ''Hewould never even get close to it.''
 In addition to his salary at Shaw, Mr. Summers enjoyed growing wealth through investments in the firm's funds. Unlike most hedge funds, which lost money as the markets plunged in 2008, Shaw posted returns of about 7 percent in its so-called macroeconomic fund. A separate multistrategy fund lost 8 percent, far less than most hedge funds. 
 When investors rushed en masse to withdraw their money from hedge funds last year, Shaw asserted its right to block redemptions from its fund. An exception was made for Mr. Summers, however, because the White House job he was taking required him to divest.
 A spokesman for Shaw said Mr. Summers's main job was not to act as a salesman. But in the fall of 2007, as the financial crisis simmered, Mr. Summers traveled to Dubai for a series of meetings with Shaw's marketing staff and potential investors. Bankers from across the region flew in for the event. Mr. Summers spoke at several lavish dinners and met with local parties involved in Shaw's real estate investments in the area, people briefed on his trip said. 
 Last September, Mr. Summers explained to Shaw traders what appeared to be an aberration in a key interest rate, the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, thus helping its traders avoid losses. He spoke at the firm's 20th anniversary gathering for its investors and at a prominent hedge fund investor conference in Boston, weeks before the presidential election. In December, he attended the firm's annual holiday party, held in the American Museum of Natural History in New York, beneath the giant model of a blue whale. 
 Even so, Mr. Summers, who, before the crisis broke out, spoke and wrote about the need for greater financial regulation, has not resisted the efforts to tighten up on hedge funds like Shaw. The administration, for instance, is moving toward closing a tax loophole that these funds have long enjoyed. A White House spokeswoman says his actions supporting hedge fund regulation prove he is not biased.
 Some people in the financial world say they have more confidence in the White House's plans because of Mr. Summers' time at D. E. Shaw. 
 ''He had insights into one of the best hedge funds in the world. That can only add value to the things the government is struggling with right now,'' said Robert Borden, chief investment officer of South Carolina's pension fund, which has invested $350 million with Shaw. Mr. Borden met Mr. Summers to discuss how much money a large institution should allocate to hedge funds.
 ''It was a nice perk to have access to some of his thoughts and insights,'' Mr. Borden said.
 Mr. Summers's experience in hedge funds might leave some wondering if he will return to private investing when his latest White House assignment ends, perhaps even to run his own lucrative fund.
 Asked about that, Mr. Shaw laughed. ''Oh, boy, I have no idea,'' he said. ''Thankfully he's doing what he's doing. I'm really glad he's running this. It's a scary time, and I can't think of anybody I'd rather see there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary, is the president's chief economic adviser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

COMPANY: D E SHAW & CO LP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



257 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: The Credit Card Trap

 BODY:
It's only fair. The federal government is doing everything it can to restore the nation's banks to health. In return, Congress should require those banks to give their credit card customers a better break. 
 As the credit card business boomed in recent years, too many lenders added tricks and traps that have ensnared and infuriated millions of their customers. Interest rates spike even when a consumer meticulously pays on time. Fees appear out of nowhere; banks can change their complicated rules at any time or for any reason. 
 Responding to thousands of complaints, the Federal Reserve Board issued new rules last December to help curb unfair and deceptive practices. But those protections will not take effect until July of next year. Congress now has an opportunity to move far more swiftly.
 Senator Christopher Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut and chairman of the Senate banking committee, has offered a credit card bill that deserves the support of his colleagues. It is stronger than the Fed's regulations and would provide consumers relief more quickly than the credit card bill now moving through the House.
 The Dodd bill would help end ''bait and switch'' tactics like promising a very low interest rate then adding hidden fees and other charges. It would make credit card contracts, which tend to favor the banks, less one-sided. It would help protect younger customers who are more easily tricked into burdensome debt.
 And it would provide stronger protection against abusive practices -- charging very high fees, for instance, for minor mistakes like being hours late paying the bill.
 Mr. Dodd says it has taken a while for him to gather support for the bill, and last week the banking committee approved it by only one vote. Republicans and bankers who oppose the bill had argued, and continue to argue, that no law is needed because the federal regulations are tough enough. 
 Mr. Dodd, who has faced criticism for his role in bailout legislation that allowed executive bonuses, could help himself by holding firm on his credit card bill. The Federal Reserve regulations are useful, but consumers should not have to wait for real help until 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (68%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



258 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: In Cuba, Change Means More of the Same, With Control at the Top

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
When President Raul Castro of Cuba began one of the biggest government shakeups in decades early last month, he explained the move simply as an attempt to streamline the government.
 But the firing of a half-dozen top functionaries -- including the surprising firing of two internationally prominent ministers -- showed that under Mr. Castro, politics and decision-making are likely to remain as centralized and tightly controlled as they were under his brother, Fidel. 
 Rather than dismantling Cuba's socialist framework, Raul Castro seems to be trying to make it work more efficiently. He has tinkered, for example, with the revolution's signature successes: universal health care and education, both of which have had problems in recent years. While Fidel put younger, untrained teachers in classrooms, Raul has been trying to entice retired teachers to return to work. Raul has also shifted doctors so that those who were sent to Venezuela in exchange for low-cost oil do not leave parts of the island without medical care. 
 Mr. Castro removed the two noteworthy officials -- Felipe Perez Roque, the foreign minister, and Carlos Lage, the vice president and de facto economics czar -- in advance of a party congress in the fall, the first in many years at which a Cuban leader will have to gather support for his plans. In doing so, he appears to want to consolidate control over the economy, which is in shambles, and Cuba's dialogue with the United States, which is expected to increase under President Obama.
 Cuban officials said that Mr. Perez Roque and Mr. Lage had become too visible and that they had conveyed to foreign politicians false expectations about how the country would change and who would be in control of its direction. The officials declined to be more specific.
 The men were also involved socially with a Cuban named Conrado Hernandez, who was surreptitiously recording their conversations during regular parties at his ranch in Matanzas. Some of those recorded conversations, which Cuban officials recently discovered, included acerbic criticism and off-color jokes about various government leaders, including Fidel and Raul Castro. 
 Mr. Hernandez, who served as the liaison on the island between the Cuban government and business interests in the Basque region of Spain, has been detained for over a month, Cuban officials said, because he was supposedly passing the recordings to Spanish intelligence officials, a claim that the Spanish Embassy in Cuba adamantly denies.
 The Cuban officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak with reporters.
 On the streets of Havana, the capital, people seem to care less about the politics of the shakeup than whether the changes will make any difference in their lives. 
 ''Politics here is a sport whose spectators are all blind,'' said a man as he swept up litter along the seaside Malecon and who, like most people interviewed, did not want to be quoted by name. ''Everyone knows things are happening. No one is sure what. So you stop trying to watch.''
 People say they have seen small improvements in the economy that do not go far enough. Many roads in Havana have been repaired. Microwave ovens, DVD players and cellphones are now in stores, but most Cubans cannot afford them. 
 The nation still imports more than 80 percent of what it consumes, and Raul Castro is trying to encourage farming by giving fallow lands to those willing to work it. But the money they can earn selling the food remains below what is needed for the tools and labor needed to start a farm.
 Mr. Castro faces a tough road ahead. Three hurricanes last season cost Cuba $10 billion, or 20 percent of the gross domestic product. Salaries remain low, food prices are high and housing is scarce. Bartenders, with access to dollars, earn wages many times that of physicians. Tourism was up last year but the price of Cuba's top export, nickel, dropped by 41 percent.
 Some people believe Mr. Castro needs to do much more to make a difference.
 ''Financially, the effect those steps would have for Cuba is tiny,'' said Luis Rene Fernandez, a University of Havana foreign policy specialist. ''Only opening up travel to all Americans and lifting the blockade will have a measurable impact.''
 Many Cubans are putting their hopes for the economy on Mr. Obama's easing of longstanding restrictions on family travel and remittances to Cuba, which he is expected to announce in the coming days. 
 In the meantime, as the American embargo continues, foreign companies are gradually increasing their presence in Cuba. Brazil, China and Russia have joined the search for oil in Cuban waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Spanish companies have always had a strong economic presence here, and relations between the countries have grown stronger since Spain passed a law last year that allows anyone with Spanish grandparents to become a Spanish citizen. But the recent accusations against Mr. Hernandez have complicated diplomatic matters; Spanish officials sent a delegation to Cuba this weekend to talk with officials about the issue.
 Mr. Hernandez's troubles began at his farm in Matanzas, about 60 miles west of Havana, where he, Mr. Perez Roque and Mr. Lage met regularly for drinks and dominoes. 
 During at least one of those tape-recorded gatherings in early February, which was attended by Mr. Lage, Mr. Perez Roque and Fernando Remirez de Estenoz, the head of the Cuban Communist Party's Foreign Relations Department, the conversation drifted off course and the men began making vulgar jokes about Fidel Castro's age and health and about the political capabilities of Raul Castro and Mr. Machado, according to two Cuban officials.
 Though it is not clear why Cuban officials detained Mr. Hernandez originally, they raided his office where they found the recordings and an unauthorized diplomatic passport that Cuban officials say was given to him by Mr. Roque. He was arrested Feb. 14 at the airport in Havana.
 On March 2, Raul Castro announced his shakeup. After Mr. Perez Roque received a standing ovation in the lobby as he left the Interior Ministry building for the last time, Raul Castro called a meeting on March 6 to explain his actions to his top 20 officials. In broad details, he described the evidence against the men and played certain sections of the recordings for those gathered. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about a recent political shakeup in Cuba by President Raul Castro, brother of Fidel Castro, misidentified the leader cited by Rene Fernandez, a University of Havana foreign policy specialist, as needing ''to do much more to make a difference'' in helping to ease Cuba's economic isolation. He was referring to President Obama, not President Castro.
 The article also omitted a first reference to the first vice president, one of President Castro's close friends. He is Jose Ramon Machado Ventura. The article also misstated the location of Matanzas, site of a social gathering at a farm where two recently purged Cabinet ministers had been secretly taped making disparaging remarks about the Castro brothers and Mr. Machado. It is about 60 miles east of Havana, not west.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Felipe Perez Roque, Raul Castro and Carlos Lage in 2007. Mr. Perez Roque, the foreign minister, and Mr. Lage, the vice president, were dismissed last month in a shakeup.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (94%); PEREZ ROQUE (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%) CUBA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



259 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 JWT, part of WPP, is transferring the last remaining major national accounts at its Chicago office to the New York headquarters as plans are made to close the Chicago office after 118 years of operation. The Chicago office had lost several large accounts like Kraft Foods, and there had been widespread speculation -- even before the economic downturn -- that it was in line to close. The fate of the office's estimated 50 employees is uncertain; some may accompany the accounts being shifted to New York. Those accounts are the personal care brands of Kimberly-Clark, like Depends and Poise, and the baking and ice cream brands of Nestle; other Kimberly-Clark and Nestle accounts had previously been shifted to New York. The last remaining major local account of JWT Chicago, the Illinois Bureau of Tourism, has been in review, and how that will proceed is also not known. The closing of such a prominent office is the first by a big national agency since the recession began. 
 The Pinnacle Foods Group, Mountain Lakes, N.J., shifted the creative duties for four brands from Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, eliminating Riney from its creative roster. Pinnacle expanded its relationship with Merkley & Partners, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, by awarding the agency the assignment for Vlasic pickles; Merkley, which also handles media planning for Pinnacle, already creates campaigns for Pinnacle brands like Duncan Hines, Log Cabin and Mrs. Butterworth's. The other three brands leaving Riney -- Hungry-Man frozen meals, Mrs. Paul's seafood and Van de Kamp's seafood -- were awarded to the New York office of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Total spending was estimated at $15 million to $20 million.
 The Sun Products Corp., Wilton, Conn., expanded its relationship with the New York office of Lowe Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, by awarding the agency the creative duties for Wisk detergent. Lowe New York already creates campaigns for another Sun brand, Snuggle fabric softener. The Wisk assignment had been handled by the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty when the brand was still sold in North America by Unilever, which sold its North American laundry care brands like Wisk, Snuggle, All and Surf to Huish Detergents, now known as Sun Products. Lowe Worldwide handles Wisk in other markets around the world where the brand is still sold by Unilever.
 Juicy Couture, Los Angeles, part of Liz Claiborne, chose Buero New York to create national fashion and fragrance campaigns. Spending for the assignment, which had been handled by Laird & Partners, New York, was not disclosed.
 The office products group of the Newell Rubbermaid Corp., Oakbrook, Ill., named Draft FCB, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle the creative duties for the Sharpie, Expo and Prismacolor brands in traditional advertising, interactive advertising and ads in stores. The assignment, with spending estimated at more than $10 million, had been at Brand Buzz, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP.
 Groupe SEB USA, Millville, N.J., expanded its relationship with Marc USA, Pittsburgh, by naming Marc the agency of record for the Krups line of appliances, handling duties like marketing and public relations. Spending was not disclosed. Marc already handles those duties for the All-Clad and Lagostina brands sold by Groupe SEB USA, a unit of Groupe SEB.
 People
 Lars Bastholm joined Ogilvy North America, New York, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, in a new post, chief digital creative officer. He had been co-chief creative officer at AKQA.
 Jim Rossman joined AKQA as chief operating officer, a new post, based in New York. He had been chief operating officer at Digitas, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 Alan Whitley joined Starmark International, Dania Beach, Fla., as executive creative director, a new post. He had been senior partner and group creative director at the Atlanta office of JWT, part of WPP.
 Kelly O'Keefe, a professor and director of the executive education program at the Virginia Commonwealth University Brandcenter, was named to a new post, managing director, effective on July 1. He will manage day-to-day operations, enabling Rick Boyko, director of the Brandcenter, to focus more time on development, recruitment and industry relations.
 Miscellany
 NSI Marketing Services, St. Louis, owned by the Frontenac Company, acquired CoAMS for undisclosed terms. CoAMS will continue to operate offices in Chicago and Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
 Mutt, Portland, Ore., was opened by three partners who formerly worked together at the Wieden & Kennedy office there: Scott Cromer, Steve Luker and Mike McCommon.
 GroupM, part of WPP, revised downward its forecasts for advertising spending this year. A forecast for a 3 percent decrease in the United States compared with 2008 was revised to a decrease of 4.3 percent. A forecast for a 0.2 percent decrease globally compared with 2008 was revised to a decrease of 4.4 percent.
 Local broadcast televisions stations topped $1 billion in interactive advertising sales last year for the first time, according to a report from the Television Bureau of Advertising, New York. The estimate for ad revenue for station Web sites in 2009 is an increase to $1.3 billion from the $1.03 billion reached in 2008.
 The Dubai Lynx Awards, a Middle Eastern advertising awards festival that is staged by the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival, took back the awards it bestowed last month, including Agency of the Year, to FP7 Doha, part of the Middle East Communications Networks, which is majority owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. The decision came after an investigation that found, the festival said, the ads for which the agency won its awards were fraudulent, created not for clients but to enter in awards shows.
 The Advertising Research Foundation, New York, presented its 2009 Great Mind Awards last week. A. K. Pradeep, chief executive at NeuroFocus, Berkeley, Calif., was the grand winner in the innovation category. And Kimberly Maxwell, senior director for brand and consumer research at Spike TV, New York, part of Viacom, was the grand winner in the ''rising star'' category.
 The Advertising Research Foundation, New York, also presented its 2009 David Ogilvy Awards last week. Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, was among the winners of two of the three industry awards. The agency was part of a team that won the Grand Ogilvy Award for the ''Orange Underground'' campaign for the Frito-Lay unit of PepsiCo. And Goodby, Silverstein was part of a team that won the Research Innovation Award for work for the National Basketball Association. The third industry award, the Research Achievement Award, was presented to a team that worked on the Barack Obama presidential campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (86%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ICE CREAM (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); RECESSION (71%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); JWT (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (82%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (82%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (57%); NESTLE SA (56%); PINNACLE FOODS INC (55%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (53%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (52%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (50%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (83%); PUB (PAR) (82%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); KMB (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (56%); UNIA (AMS) (52%); UNA (BIT) (52%); UNA (AMS) (52%); UN (NYSE) (52%); ULVR (LSE) (52%); UL (NYSE) (52%); NWL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (52%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (50%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (50%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



260 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Top Auto Industry Troubleshooter

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
After 26 years as one of the most politically connected investment bankers on Wall Street, Steven Rattner finally took a job in Washington -- only it is not quite the one friends and business associates thought it would be. 
 Washington buzzed that Mr. Rattner, a big name in the New York media world who, friends say, aspires to a cabinet post like Treasury secretary, would be named the car czar of the Obama administration. Instead, he is one of 14 people on a committee that is orchestrating the rescue of the giant automakers. 
 Still, Mr. Rattner, a well-known media banker, is playing a central role as car czar lite, traveling to Detroit to visit plants, meeting with the automakers' bankers, unions and bondholders, and advising the White House on which companies seem salvageable and how. If he succeeds, he may get a chance at a larger job in the administration. 
 That is a big if. He has to push the car companies to overhaul decades-old practices, persuade his former colleagues on Wall Street to lower their demands on the automakers' debt payments and appeal to union leaders who may be turned off by Mr. Rattner's financial success. 
 Mr. Rattner said in an interview that he has long been interested in returning to Washington, where he worked as a newspaper reporter 30 years ago, and that he hoped to stay on for some time to work on aspects of the financial crisis.
 ''In the fall, as the economic crisis intensified, it became clearer and clearer to me that this was a moment of historic importance,'' Mr. Rattner said, ''and if one was ever to have an interest in serving your country in the area of economic policy, this was the moment.''
 Mr. Rattner has been among the most politically connected people in the banking industry. He and his wife, Maureen White, who together have been referred to by New York magazine as the ''D.N.C.'s A.T.M.,'' have hosted many Democratic fund-raisers at their lavish apartment on Fifth Avenue. They were initially Clinton supporters, but they hosted events for Barack Obama after he sealed the nomination. 
 Among his friends, it has become a parlor game to guess where Mr. Rattner might be posted next. His current job description as a special counselor in the Treasury Department, according to a White House press release, includes the eventual option of moving on to manage a different aspect of the financial crisis. 
 Mr. Rattner went to Wall Street in the early 1980s, after his stint as a reporter in Washington, and rose through the ranks at Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley before becoming deputy chief executive at the investment bank Lazard in the 1990s. 
 In 2000, after a power struggle at Lazard, Mr. Rattner co-founded an investment firm, Quadrangle Capital, specializing in private equity investing focused on communications media. Last year, Quadrangle began managing the personal fortune of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York -- a longtime friend of Mr. Rattner's. 
 Quadrangle's funds have performed well, on average, though the firm has canceled plans to start a third fund because of Mr. Rattner's departure.
 Friends of Mr. Rattner say it would be hard to find a better auto industry analyst. Orin Kramer, a hedge fund manager and important Obama fund-raiser, called Mr. Rattner ''a superstar.'' 
 Paul J. Taubman, head of investment banking at Morgan Stanley, said ''he's a very fast study.'' And Henry Kravis, the private equity financier, said ''he's thoughtful, thorough and smart.''
 A former colleague of Mr. Rattner's pointed to his dealings with Cablevision as an example of his toughness and business savvy. When Quadrangle invested in the cable company in 2002, Mr. Rattner told the Dolan family, which runs the company, that he would not support an expansion into satellite businesses. When the Dolans decided to pursue satellite opportunities, Mr. Rattner did not back down, and Quadrangle sold its position in Cablevision.
 One thing that is clear: Mr. Rattner knows how to make money. Not only has he stockpiled a personal fortune, but Quadrangle's two private equity funds have performed well, despite some soured investments. 
 The first Quadrangle fund returned 15 to 20 percent, according to one investor. The second, which has yet to use all its capital to complete its investment portfolio, is already showing single-digit gains. Quadrangle also ran a hedge fund that lost 25 percent last year, before the firm closed it and returned investors' money. 
 Mr. Rattner's Wall Street ties slowed the process of his appointment, according to two people briefed on the Obama administration's discussions. The administration worried that Mr. Rattner might have a conflict in dealing with Cerberus Capital Management, the investment firm that controlled Chrysler, because his firm was involved in a difficult transaction with Cerberus, centering on a magazine company that Quadrangle created in 2007. 
 At that time, Cerberus led a group of investors that lent money to the magazine company. At the end of last year, the magazine company broke its debt agreements. The situation is now being handled without Mr. Rattner, who has resigned from Quadrangle, and Cerberus is taking control of the magazines.
 The Obama administration decided not to have an independent car czar, as was proposed in a House bill late last year. Instead, the administration chose to use a task force, giving President Obama the ability to be more directly involved in seeking solutions to the auto industry's problems.
 Mr. Rattner said his communications media banking background was an asset, as he could approach auto industry issues with a neutral view and help decide how much taxpayer capital to commit and to whom.
 ''We're making an investment decision,'' Mr. Rattner said. ''We're not running these auto companies. We are helping them restructure and reposition themselves for the future.''
 Although Mr. Rattner is friendly with many communications media leaders, he has been wary of the publicity his position has brought and at first resisted requests to be interviewed. He has long had a close friendship with the publisher of The New York Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr.
 As the most powerful member of the auto task force, Mr. Rattner is trying to jolt the industry into action with firm messages, like the one last week to Chrysler that it was unlikely to survive as an independent company. 
 Mr. Rattner believes General Motors has a greater chance of survival on its own, though he was the bearer of bad news last month when G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, was asked to step down.
 There is no official head of the auto task force, but people in the auto industry say that Mr. Rattner seems to call the shots, and he is the highest-ranking task force official within Treasury. Most of the force is made up of younger people from Wall Street. 
 Mr. Rattner is viewed as having an afterlife in some other role at Treasury after this auto plan gets set, which should happen in about six months, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 Mr. Rattner, it turns out, has pondered the auto question before. In the 1970s, he wrote about the government's rescue of Chrysler as a reporter for The New York Times. This time around, of course, Mr. Rattner does not get to write the article, though he will have great say over how it turns out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The financier Steven Rattner heads the task force on the automobile business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B1)
 Steven Rattner, who made his mark as a communications media financier on Wall Street, is dealing with the failure of a giant industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); WRITERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); FUNDRAISING (61%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



261 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Ticking Clock

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
President Obama's strategy of offering Pakistan a partnership to defeat the insurgency here calls for a virtual remaking of this nation's institutions and even of the national psyche, an ambitious agenda that Pakistan's politicians and people appear unprepared to take up. 
 Officially, Pakistan's government welcomed Mr. Obama's strategy, with its hefty infusions of American money, hailing it as a ''positive change.'' But as the Obama administration tries to bring Pakistanis to its side, large parts of the public, the political class and the military have brushed off the plan, rebuffing the idea that the threat from Al Qaeda and the Taliban, which Washington calls a common enemy, is so urgent.
 Some, including the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and the president, Asif Ali Zardari, may be coming around. But for the military, at least, India remains priority No. 1, as it has for the 61 years of Pakistan's existence.
 How to shift that focus in time for Pakistan to defeat a fast-expanding Islamic insurgency that threatens to devour the country is the challenge facing Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Richard C. Holbrooke, the special envoy to the region, as they arrive in Pakistan for talks early this week. 
 Strengthening Pakistan's weak civilian institutions, updating political parties rooted in feudal loyalties and recasting a military fixated on yesterday's enemy, and stuck in the traditions of conventional warfare, are generational challenges. But Pakistan may not have the luxury of the long term to meet them. 
 Some analysts here and in Washington are already putting forward apocalyptic timetables for the country. ''We are running out of time to help Pakistan change its present course toward increasing economic and political instability, and even ultimate failure,'' said a recent report by a task force of the Atlantic Council that was led by former Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. The report, released in February, gave the Pakistani government 6 to 12 months before things went from bad to dangerous.
 A specialist in guerrilla warfare, David Kilcullen, who advised Gen. David H. Petraeus when General Petraeus was the American commander in Iraq, offered a more dire assessment. Pakistan could be facing internal collapse within six months, he said.
 General Petraeus, in Congressional testimony last week, called the insurgency one that could ''take down'' the country, which is home to Qaeda militants and has nuclear arms. 
 Even before the insurgency has been fully engaged, however, many Pakistanis have concluded that reaching an accommodation with the militants is preferable to fighting them. Some, including mid-ranking soldiers, choose to see the militants not as the enemy, but as fellow Muslims who are deserving of greater sympathy than are the American aims.
 It is problematic whether the backing of Mr. Zardari, and the Obama's administration's promise of $1.5 billion in aid for each of the next five years, can change the mood in the country, said a former interior minister, Aftab Ahmad Sherpao, who visited Washington last fall to meet with some of the people who are now officials in the Obama administration. 
 Fighting the insurgency is commonly seen in Pakistan as an American cause, not a Pakistani one, he said.
 There are questions, too, of whether the Obama offer of nearly $3 billion in counterinsurgency aid can quickly convert the Pakistani military from a force trained to fight India on the plains of Punjab into an outfit that can conquer the mountains of the tribal areas, where the militants operate.
 ''After such a long time of being with the Americans, the country has been through such stress and strain and nothing good has come of it,'' Mr. Sherpao said. ''A cross-section of people is dead set against the Americans. Another section is not happy but not vocal. About 1 to 2 percent would say this policy of America should continue.''
 The distrust has been heightened by charges from American officials, including General Petraeus and Mr. Holbrooke, that Pakistan's spy agency is still supporting the Islamic militants who pour over the border to fight American troops in Afghanistan.
 A former director general of the agency Inter-Services Intelligence, Lt. Gen. Javed Ashraf, said the American opinions -- long held but now publicly stated -- did not augur well. A spokesman for the Pakistani military called them ''baseless'' and part of a ''malicious campaign.''
 ''You can't start a successful operation with a trust deficit,'' General Ashraf said. ''Pakistan is an ally. But then you say we are linked with the Taliban. The serving army people will say, 'To hell with them if this is what we are going to get after laying down more than 1,500 lives.' '' That is the number of soldiers the Pakistani Army says have been killed fighting the militants in the tribal areas. 
 The lack of trust was evident, military analysts said, in the American refusal to consider a request from the Pakistani military that it operate the remotely piloted aircraft the C.I.A. has been using to hit the militants in the tribal areas.
 Although those Predator drones have been successful in killing top Qaeda operatives, a factor acknowledged privately by Pakistani officials, the attacks continued to be criticized even as the new Pakistani-American partnership was supposed to be taking root.
 ''Predator strikes are not a strategy -- not even part of a strategy,'' a former army chief of staff and ambassador to Washington, Gen. Jehangir Karamat, said in a front-page article in the newspaper The Nation. ''They are tactical actions to ratchet up body counts.''
 The Americans have been stingy on even the more basic tools for guerrilla warfare, like helicopter gunships and night-vision goggles, which Pakistan has requested for the past three years, Pakistani military officials say. There are still doubts that Washington will deliver such equipment speedily, they say.
 Then there is India. Its growing presence in Afghanistan -- the building of roads; the opening since 2001 of two consulates in two cities close to Pakistan -- makes Pakistan believe it is being encircled, said Ishaq Khan Khakwani, a former senator from the Pakistan Muslim League-Q party.
 Pakistanis complain that even though Mr. Obama, during his European trip, called for dialogue between India and Pakistan, his plans fail to address this major strategic concern. 
 ''The United States has to get India to back off in Afghanistan,'' said Mr. Khakwani, who is sympathetic to the American position. ''Then Pakistan will see Indian interference is diminished and that will give confidence to Pakistan.''
 The deep questioning about why the Pakistani Army should fight the Taliban reaches well down into the ranks of the soldiers and their families. Dissent on that goal has become increasingly prevalent among rank-and-file soldiers, and even in the officer corps, said Riffat Hussain, a professor of international relations at Quaid-i-Azam University here who also lectures to soldiers at the National Defense University.
 There have been at least a half-dozen reported courts-martial of soldiers who refused to fight, and the real number was probably larger, Professor Hussain said.
 In Jhelum, a town 100 miles south of Islamabad and a place with a proud military history, one village had shown in the boldest terms the anger about the military fighting Muslims on Pakistani soil, said Enver Baig, a former senator with the Pakistan Peoples Party, who considers himself a pro-American politician. 
 When the body of a soldier killed in the tribal areas was taken home to his family last year, the father refused to accept his son's coffin, Mr. Baig said.
 Instead, the father took off his shoe and used it to slap the army officer who had escorted the body.
 A month later, when another soldier's body was delivered to the same village, the army left the body on the village outskirts, Mr. Baig said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers standing guard on March 23 after a suicide bomber staged an attack on a police station in Islamabad, Pakistan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ARMIES (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); RANKINGS (68%); RELIGION (67%); TESTIMONY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009



262 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: The History of Postwar Street Gangs Lives in Musicals, Books and Memories

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and JOEL STONINGTON; Christine Hauser and Carolyn Wilder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
There were the Dukes and the Scorpions, the Hellbenders, Baby Beacons, Baldies and Green Lanterns. Among the most notorious were the Egyptian Kings. In El Barrio, in northern Manhattan, the Dragons and the Viceroys reigned.
It was post-World War II New York and the children of Latino immigrants were flooding into neighborhoods that whites and African-Americans had long fought over. In this ethnic Petri dish, teenagers formed ranks, wearing exclusive clothing, marking their area with graffiti and making alliances for protection, camaraderie or just to sip cheap wine, play stickball or meet at dances.
They chose colorful names. Their doings have been recorded in music and books, presented in musicals like ''West Side Story'' and ''The Capeman,'' even as the violence they committed has been retold in five decades of city history.
''They were usually alienated kids looking for a family and, of course, the gang is a pseudo-family,'' said Lewis Yablonsky, a writer and a college professor whose writing often draws on his field work with old New York street gangs. 
''The theory I developed, and taught, is I called them a 'near-group,' '' he said. ''I was recently interviewed about 'West Side Story,' and my main remark was, 'I never met any of those kids who could dance.' ''
William Montalvo, now a long-distance truck driver, says he lived those tumultuous days, and loved them.
He was there on Oct. 21, 1960, when the Lemus brothers -- George and Robert -- of the Dragons street gang, shot William M. Jenkins, a member of the Viceroys, in a neighborhood dispute. The shooting paralyzed Mr. Jenkins, 18, a large man who had boxed and played basketball, and changed his nickname from Husky Willie to Wheelchair Willie.
''We wore our jeans and our shirts, our jerseys, from the club,'' said Mr. Montalvo, who is 64. ''It had our club name on it with the big name on the front. We had nicknames like Lefty, Baby, Willie. We had Maverick. They used to call me Baby Willie.''
The death of Wheelchair Willie on March 13 brought memories of that era rushing back among a small number of people who lived through it.
The city medical examiner's office ruled Mr. Jenkins's death a homicide, resulting from the wounds he suffered 49 years ago, making his the oldest reclassified homicide in the history of the city's Police Department. But the Lemus brothers served their time, Robert died in 1999, the district attorney's office is not pursuing new charges, and the police have closed the case.
Vincent J. Hefferen, who is now 90, worked on the Jenkins case as a first-grade police detective in the 23rd Precinct. He said the gangs ''did keep us busy.''
It was mostly battles over turf. ''They were like all these street gangs -- 'Don't bother my territory, don't get in my way' -- fighting for land or space,'' he said. ''In other words, 'This is my territory, stay out of it,' and so forth.''
From a law enforcement perspective, the motivation for joining a gang was apparent.
''They formed the gangs because they had close-knit living quarters in the tenements, and they formed gangs going to school, to protect themselves,'' said Eric C. Schneider, who wrote ''Vampires, Dragons, and Egyptian Kings: Youth Gangs in Postwar New York.''
When Mr. Jenkins was shot, Mr. Montalvo had just gotten out of reform school. He did not see the shot that felled his fellow Viceroy and does not remember what caused the fight, but over the years, he has come to hold those on both sides in esteem.
''Georgie, in my mind, he's innocent,'' Mr. Montalvo said. ''A scuffle started. Let me tell you, Willie was a big dude and he hit hard. He was a heck of a fine person. Thinking about little Georgie, he was there and something must have came up and he just did what he believed in. One thing led to the other.''
Gang fights were rooted in machismo, territory, street credibility and ''women, women,'' said Edwin Torres, a novelist and a former State Supreme Court judge whose crime novels were adapted into the 1993 film, ''Carlito's Way.''
Mr. Torres, 78, grew up in El Barrio and never joined a ''fighting gang,'' but was sometimes roped into the violence out of a sense of honor.
''I avoided it like the plague, but a couple of times I had to go -- maybe if it pertained to me, a good friend of mine got jumped -- I had to go,'' he said. ''Now, in retrospect, it was over trivial things.''
Trivial? Perhaps. But then, as now, gang life led to deaths. ''They'd shoot to kill someone at the drop of a hat,'' said Mr. Hefferen, the retired detective.
Headline, 1955: ''Teen-Ager Is Slain in Revenge Attack.'' One 17-year-old member of the Viceroys was shot dead in a grocery in El Barrio as revenge for the stabbing of another 17-year-old in the Dragons.
Headline, 1955: ''4 Boys and a Girl Held in Killing; Gang Drew Lots for Trigger Man.'' After the stabbing of the teenage Dragon, his comrades met to form a plan to ''burn,'' or kill, the assailant. They drew pieces of paper -- one marked ''B'' for burn -- from a hat to decide who would do it, and even punished one who refused, after drawing the ''B.''
Headline, 1958: ''2 Letters Predict 'War' in Harlem.'' Letters signed by the ''Viceroy Dragons'' said Spanish forces were moving to ''smash'' Italians, apparently in retaliation for the killing of a 25-year-old Cuban man by a group of youths who, the authorities said, were of Italian descent.
Mr. Montalvo, of the Bronx, portrayed the gangs as quaint by today's standards. They were social groups, he said, that ''protected our girls,'' played ball and took jobs in local stores or shining shoes. ''We did a lot of jam sessions, playing our music, dancing in the street. That's the way we live,'' he said. ''We didn't do no drugs.''
But as face-to-face confrontations gave way to drive-by shootings and drugs became more common, ''gang'' became a dirtier word.
''You have a transformation of gangs from social entities organized around turf or ethnicity or around projecting honor and learning what it is like to be a male to becoming, in the 1970s, more economic entities that are increasingly, over time, organized as means of entry into the underground economy,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''And kids then went from fighting with things like switchblades and car aerials to fighting with weapons that were supplied by returning veterans during the Vietnam era and eventually the surplus production of all our arms manufacturers.''
Looking back, Mr. Montalvo said, ''It was a different era. We were clean kids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When Latin immigrants moved into certain neighborhoods after World War II, they often formed gangs for camaraderie on soft summer nights, as at top in 1958, or for protection in school, but they sometimes led to arrests. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLYN BAUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BETTMANN/CORBIS)(A21)
 The start of a gang encounter on the streets of New York. The recent death of a man shot in 1960 by a rival gang member stirred recollections, many of them happy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); GANGS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); HOMICIDE (84%); CHILDREN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); WRITERS (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); PARALYSIS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); TRUCK DRIVERS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



263 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SERIES OF CHECHEN KILLINGS
Put Moscow in Difficult Spot
The enemies of the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov, keep turning up dead. Now the Kremlin, which installed him as president and is relying on him to stamp out an insurgency that threatened to wrest the republic from Moscow's control, is being condemned for allowing violence, including the regime's use of abduction and torture, to continue. PAGE A5
PAKISTANI JUDGE REBUKES OFFICIALS
The newly restored chief justice of Pakistan's Supreme Court forcefully displayed his reputation as a human rights advocate by assailing the attorney general and other officials over the Taliban's flogging of a 17-year-old girl. PAGE A6 
CAR BOMBINGS KILL 33 IN IRAQ
A series of six car bombings in and near Baghdad killed at least 33 people and wounded scores of others in a convulsion of violence that underscored the heightened tensions between Sunni fighters and Iraq's government. PAGE A6
ACCUSATIONS OVER ROLE IN TORTURE
Medical personnel were present as guards confined prisoners in small boxes, shackled their arms to the ceiling, kept them in frigid cells and were deeply involved in the abusive interrogation and torture of terrorist suspects held overseas by the Central Intelligence Agency, a long-secret report by the International Committee of the Red Crosshas concluded. PAGE A6
AFTER LULL, SOMALI PIRATES STRIKE
After a recent decrease in activity, pirates off Somalia's coast seized as many as five ships in 48 hours, somehow eluding the armada of warships from more than a dozen nations, including the United States, patrolling Somalia's seas. PAGE A8
CANDIDATE INSULTS IRAN'S LEADER
Rejecting the policies of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as ''extremist,'' Mir Hussein Moussavi, a leading presidential candidate in Iran, said that he favored improved relations with the West and greater individual freedoms at home. PAGE A9
Diplomatic Memo
$1.1 Trillion in Name Only
It is an extraordinary number, $1.1 trillion in aid, to be pumped into the world's financial bloodstream. On closer inspection, the figure looks as wishful as the words in the communique issued by the Group of 20, with some of the money yet to be pledged, some double-counted and some to be counted in a ''synthetic currency.'' PAGE A12
U.S. MAY EXPAND DRONE STRIKES
Despite threats of retaliation from Pakistani militants, senior administration officials said that the United States intended to step up its use of drones to strike militants in Pakistan's tribal areas. PAGE A15
National
STUDY FINDS MANY TEACHERS
Are Departing the Profession
Over the next four years, more than a third of the nation's 3.2 million teachers could retire, depriving classrooms of experienced instructors and straining taxpayer-financed retirement systems, according to a new report on teaching. PAGE A16
STRAY HORSES STIR CONCERN
As the economy continues to falter, law enforcement officials in Kentucky and nationwide are seeing big increases in the number of neglected horses, some abandoned, others left to starve by their owners. The situation has some states looking at ways to bring slaughterhouses back. PAGE A16
SPAT OVER ETHNIC ENCLAVE'S NAME
In the last 30 years or so, an area of Los Angeles has grown into an enclave commonly known as Koreatown, representing the group's largest concentration in the United States. Now a divisive application calls for officially naming dozens of square blocks in what many consider the heart of their neighborhood Little Bangladesh. PAGE A17
Gunman Had a History of Racism A19
TEXAS OFFICER CHARGED IN SHOOTING
A grand jury in Harris County, Tex., indicted a police sergeant in the shooting of a young man outside his home on New Year's Eve. The case has attracted widespread attention because the victim's family accused the police of racial profiling. PAGE A19
THE AFTERMATH OF THE STEVENS CASE
The case against Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska was to be an achievement for the Justice Department's elite anticorruption unit. But in the aftermath of the conviction's collapse, lawyers said the case had been poorly managed, inadequately supervised and hampered by conflicts between prosecutors and F.B.I. agents. PAGE A20
New York
NOTE TIED TO GUNMAN
Rails at the Police
A Syracuse television station received a letter apparently from Jiverly Wong, the gunman responsible for one of the deadliest mass shootings in New York's history. The envelope was packed with personal items, leading authorities to believe that it was authentic. The note expresses anger at the police but offers little insight into the motivation for the attack. Page A21
POSTWAR GANGS IN NEW YORK
In the name of status and a family of choice, alienated young Latino men in post-World War II New York formed gangs, turning the city into a patchwork of separate turf. Their five decades of history is one soaked in more colors than red and has influenced the stage and screen. Page 21
Obituaries
EDGAR F. CALLAHAN, 80
As chairman of the National Credit Union Administration under President Reagan, he brought stability to the credit union industry at a time of economic uncertainty. PAGE A27
Business
CIVIL SUIT AGAINST FINANCIER OVER MADOFF SCAM
J. Ezra Merkin, a prominent New York financier whose clients lost more than $2 billion in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme has been accused of fraud and deception in a civil law suit. The suit does not accuse Mr. Merkin of knowing about Mr. Madoff's fraud, but it contends that he failed to properly oversee or investigate the situation beforehand. Page B1
Dealbook
F.D.I.C. Enters Buyout Game
There is a new buyout artist in town: the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, that's right, the F.D.I.C. Its recent plan is to offer $2 trillion to private investors who would use the loans to buy toxic assets from the nation's banks and if the investor loses money, he would owe the taxpayer nothing. But if we've learned one thing, Andrew Sorkin writes, it's that risk-free investing is kind of an oxymoron. Page B1
RISKS IN EXTRACTING MEDICAL DEVICE
Pulling a medical device off the market is one thing, but over the next several years thousands may face risky surgical procedures to have a device removed from their bodies. The Sprint Fidelis, a heart defibrillator cable has been linked to five patient deaths, and 150,000 people around the country are still using the it. Some are having the device removed as a preventative measure. Page B1
Frequent Flier
It Makes for Awkward Small Talk
From tech savvy thief, to felon, to author; Walter Pavlo Jr. never thought he'd see the inside of an airplane again. Now that he's written a book about his experiences, he travels the country promoting it. And consulting and lecturing on white collar crime. But what do you do when your neighbor on the flight wants to make small talk? Page B6
On the Road
New Airport Security Passes Tests
Whole-body scans passed their first airport tests and the Transportation Security Administration plans to replace walk-through metal detectors with them. The scans provide an image of the naked body, and critics are arguing that it is tantamount to an invasive strip-search. Page B6
SPORTS
FOR HARRINGTON,
Augusta Remains Quiet
At the Augusta National Golf Club, no barrage of media hoopla or paparazzi awaits Padraig Harrington. This suits Harrington just fine. As he tries to become the first European golfer in modern times to simultaneously hold three majors, he has been able to prepare quietly for the Masters. PAGE B10
HORSE TRAINER ADMITS GIVING DRUG
Jeff Mullins, who trains the Kentucky Derby favorite I Want Revenge, acknowledged that he gave his horse Gato Go Win a dose of what he characterized as a ''liquid cough medicine'' in the detention barn at Aqueduct on Saturday. PAGE B11
ARTS
MAPPING THE CULTURAL BUZZ
Of Metropolitan Life
A new study, ''The Geography of Buzz,'' locates hot spots based on the frequency and draw of cultural happenings: film screenings, concerts, fashion shows, and gallery and theater openings. It finds that the buzziest areas in New York are not the Lower East Side, Williamsburg or any other hipster-centric neighborhoods. PAGE C1
Theater Review
A Comedy With Ammunition
Don't feel guilty about laughing so hard at ''Why Torture Is Wrong, and the People Who Love Them,'' Christopher Durang's new comedy about all-American violence. Though it tackles subjects that are sensitive to the point of rawness just now, the production has a healthier heart and conscience than many a more pious play, Ben Brantley writes. PAGE C1
Books of The Times
Admiration Becomes Obsession
Arthur Phillips's new novel, ''The Song Is You,'' reads like a mash-up of the romantic comedy ''Sleepless in Seattle,'' in which the hero and heroine meet in real life only in the last reel, and one of those creepy, straight-to-video movies, in which a famous beauty is pursued around the world by an obsessive fan, Michiko Kakutani writes. PAGE C1
CHANGING OF GUARD REVEALS A SHIFT
When Daily Variety's longtime editor in chief, Peter Bart, surrendered power over the weekend, many industry people learned not from the company's Web site, where it broke the news, but from an e-mail alert sent by a blog, thewrap.com, that did not exist six months ago. So it goes for the venerable trade publication in a Hollywood where independent bloggers have severely lessened its impact. PAGE C1
Science Times
KEEPING UP APPEARANCES
When Pride Is All That's Left
The art of keeping up appearances when you're in desperate straits may seem shallow, the very embodiment of denial, but many psychologists beg to differ. To the extent that it sustains good habits and reflects personal pride, they say, this kind of play-acting can be an effective social strategy, especially in uncertain times. PAGE D1
NEW DNA TEST TOPS THE PAP SMEAR
A new DNA test for human papillomavirus or HPV, the virus that causes cervical cancer does so much better than current methods that some gynecologists hope it will eventually replace the Pap smear in wealthy countries and cruder tests in poor ones. PAGE D1
LIMBS MAY EXPLAIN MUCH MORE
Biologists, learning how the diversity of limbs evolved, are also getting clues that may someday make it possible to regenerate entire limbs for treatment of injuries or birth defects. But for many experts, their most important discoveries are how the rules for limb-building also apply to other parts of the embryo. PAGE D1
Lab Rats of Public Policy D1
Baseball Embraces Science D1
WHEN ISAAC WILL MEET HAL 9000
Scientists are experimenting with computer programs and robots that sift raw data to uncover fundamental laws of nature. The achievement could mean that insights that once emerged from the genius of scientists like Isaac Newton might now pop out of computers straight out of the film ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' PAGE D4
SPINE CELLS MAY BE KEY TO ITCH
Scratching to relieve an itch has long been considered a mystery. But a new study suggests that specialized cells in the spinal cord appear to be critically involved in producing the sensation of itch and the feeling of relief after the application of fingernails, at least in healthy people. PAGE D4
PUTTING A HUMAN FACE ON X-RAYS
An unusual medical study suggested that when patients' photographs are attached to their X-rays, radiologists provided longer, more meticulous reports. And they said they felt more connected to the patients, whom they seldom meet face to face.
PAGE D5
DUST YIELDS CLUE TO ASTHMA
Children living in public housing suffer disproportionately from allergic asthma. Now, a team of scientists from the Boston University School of Medicine using an experimental model that required leaving the pristine conditions of the lab for the messier ones of life have discovered that the allergen usually is cockroaches. PAGE D5
Editorial
PUBLIC PLAN FOR HEALTH INSURANCE?
President Obama has rightly called for sweeping health care reform and charged Congress with coming up with a program. Expect a tough political fight. Already one of the most contentious issues is whether to include a new public plan option to compete with private insurance plans. It seems worth trying. Page A28
CASH FOR CLUNKERS
President Obama's rescue plan for the automotive industry has given the presidential seal of approval to a little-noticed movement in Congress to clear the roads of gas-guzzling clunkers and replace them with more fuel-efficient cars. It's an excellent idea, but there's a right and wrong way to do it. Page A28
SO MUCH FOR PUBLIC TRANSIT
With each passing day, it becomes more likely that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority will greatly increase the cost of public transit -- and that these platinum-priced tickets will buy a lot less service than people are accustomed to. The New York State Senate can prevent this unfortunate outcome. But it shows no sign of doing so. Page A28
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
Today, many psychologists, cognitive scientists and even philosophers embrace a view of morality in which seeing and evaluating are not two separate processes, they are linked and basically simultaneous. The question then becomes, what shapes moral emotions in the first place? The answer has long been evolution, but in recent years there's an increasing appreciation that evolution isn't just about competition, it's also about cooperation within groups. Page A29
HOW THE INTERNET GOT ITS RULES
Today marks the 40th anniversary of the Request for Comments, those guardians of network protocol. In an Op-Ed essay, Stephen D. Crocker, the author of the very first R.F.C., reflects on the humble memos that shaped the Internet. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALIBAN (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); JUDGES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SOMALI PIRACY (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); MILITARY VESSELS (64%); NAVAL VESSELS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SOMALIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



264 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Report Envisions Shortage of Teachers as Retirements Escalate

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Over the next four years, more than a third of the nation's 3.2 million teachers could retire, depriving classrooms of experienced instructors and straining taxpayer-financed retirement systems, according to a new report. 
The problem is aggravated by high attrition among rookie teachers, with one of every three new teachers leaving the profession within five years, a loss of talent that costs school districts millions in recruiting and training expenses, says the report, by the National Commission on Teaching and America's Future, a nonprofit research advocacy group.
''The traditional teaching career is collapsing at both ends,'' the report says. ''Beginners are being driven away'' by low pay and frustrating working conditions, and ''accomplished veterans who still have much to contribute are being separated from their schools by obsolete retirement systems'' that encourage teachers to move from paycheck to pension when they are still in their mid-50s, the report says.
To ease the exodus, the report says, policy makers should restructure schools and modify state retirement policies so that thousands of the best veteran teachers can stay on in the classroom to mentor inexperienced teachers. Reorganizing schools around what the report calls learning teams, a model already in place in some schools in Boston, could ease the strain on pension systems, raise student achievement and help young teachers survive their first, often traumatic years in the classroom, it says.
''In the '60s we recruited many baby-boom women and men, and the deal we made was, 'You'll have a rewarding career and at the end, pension and health benefits,' '' said Tom Carroll, the commission's president. ''They signed up in large numbers and stayed, and now 53 percent of our teaching work force is getting ready to collect. If all those boomers walk into retirement, our teacher pension systems will be under severe strain, with the same problems as the auto industry.''
This is not the first report to predict widespread teacher shortages unless policy makers took quick action. In 1999, an Education Department study warned that the impending retirement of millions of teachers could lead to chaos, a dire outcome that never materialized.
One economist who spoke out skeptically then was Michael Podgursky, who studies teacher retirement at the University of Missouri. The latest report, too, may overstate the case somewhat, Dr. Podgursky said in an interview. ''There's a bit of hyperbole'' in the assertion that the teaching career is ''collapsing at both ends,'' he said.
The recession may help ease potential teacher shortages because the profession's relative job security and generous health benefits will probably attract more new college graduates and career-changers than when plenty of good jobs were available.
''Still, the authors make a credible case that the number or teachers who retire will rise in coming years,'' Dr. Podgursky said, ''and it makes a good deal of sense to develop phased retirement systems that permit retired or semiretired teachers to mentor new teachers.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: WHEN A MILLION TEACHERS RETIRE: A new report suggests that as many as a third of the nation's 3.2 million teachers could retire in the next four years. The recession could ease the shortage, however, by attracting new college graduates and workers displaced from other fields. (Source: National Commission on Teaching and America's Future) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (78%); VETERANS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



265 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 598 words

PERSON: Edgar F. Callahan 

HEADLINE: Edgar F. Callahan, 80, Credit Union Chief, Dies

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Edgar F. Callahan, who as chairman of the National Credit Union Administration under President Ronald Reagan brought stability to the credit union industry at a time of economic uncertainty, died on March 18 at his home in Sacramento, Calif. He was 80.
The cause was complications of an infection after a blood transfusion, said Anita Macias, spokeswoman for the Patelco Credit Union in San Francisco. After his government service, Mr. Callahan was president of Patelco until his retirement in 2001. 
Mr. Callahan was director of the Illinois Division of Financial Institutions in 1981 when Mr. Reagan named him to lead the National Credit Union Administration. The agency regulates the industry and administers the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, the equivalent of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Credit unions provide a range of financial services to members, usually drawn from a particular affiliation, like the employees of a company or a labor union or members of a community group. There are approximately 8,000 credit unions in the country, with more than 92 million members.
The country was in recession when Mr. Callahan was appointed, and some credit unions were becoming insolvent just as many of their members needed their services.
''Ed Callahan largely shaped the credit union system as we now know it,'' Daniel A. Mica, president of the industry's largest trade group, the Credit Union National Association, said on Monday.
''Ed Callahan knew that we had to have solid, stable institutions,'' Mr. Mica said. ''He knew we needed proper capitalization of the insurance fund, and he tried to minimize unnecessary regulations.''
Mr. Callahan successfully promoted legislation that, starting in 1985, required credit unions to capitalize the insurance fund with an additional 1 percent of their insured shares, raising the fund's equity level to 1.3 percent from 0.30 percent and placing it on a far more secure footing.
He also instituted a policy that allowed credit unions to serve more than one membership group, as long as each group could demonstrate some common link. The Federal Credit Union Act of 1934 had required credit unions to serve only one group. Mr. Callahan's policy allowed for diversification so that if, for example, a particular business was about to close, its failure would not bring down the credit union.
The banking industry later challenged Mr. Callahan's policy, and in 1998 the Supreme Court ruled that it violated the original interpretation of the Federal Credit Union Act. Later that year, Congress passed a law allowing diversification to continue.
Edgar Fred Callahan was born in Youngstown, Ohio, on March 23, 1928, one of two sons of Leo and Minnie Callahan. He earned his bachelor's and his master's degrees, both in math, at Marquette University. From 1970 to 1975, he was principal of Boylan Central Catholic High School in Rockford, Ill. After becoming active in the Illinois Republican Party, he was named director of the state's financial institutions division.
Three years after leaving the Reagan administration, Mr. Callahan became president of Patelco. At the time, the credit union had $280 million in assets; when he retired it had $2.8 billion.
Mr. Callahan is survived by his wife of 23 years, the former Linda Steel; three daughters, Colleen Spangler, Maureen Hartman and Eileen Callahan; three sons, Dan, Kevin and Tim; and 14 grandchildren. His first marriage ended in divorce.
Mr. Callahan took a conservative approach to his government service. The sign outside his office door said, ''We Don't Run Credit Unions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edgar Callahan in 1990. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS (98%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (57%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

COMPANY: PATELCO CREDIT UNION (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (93%); CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (72%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (72%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

RONALD REAGAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



266 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Brightening Outlook on U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Americans have grown more optimistic about the economy and the direction of the country in the 11 weeks since President Obama was inaugurated, suggesting that he is enjoying some success in his critical task of rebuilding the nation's confidence, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
These sometimes turbulent weeks -- marked by new initiatives by Mr. Obama, attacks by Republicans and more than a few missteps by the White House -- do not appear to have hurt the president. Americans said they approved of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, foreign policy, Iraq and Afghanistan; fully two-thirds said they approved of his overall job performance. 
By contrast, just 31 percent of respondents said they had a favorable view of the Republican Party, the lowest in the 25 years the question has been asked in New York Times/CBS News polls.
It is not unusual for new presidents to enjoy a period of public support. Still, the durability of Mr. Obama's support contrasts with that of some of his predecessors at the same point in their terms. It is also striking at a time when anxiety has gripped households across the country and Mr. Obama has alternately sought to rally Americans' spirits and warn against economic collapse as he seeks Congressional support for his programs.
The poll found that 70 percent of respondents were very or somewhat concerned that someone in their household would be out of work and looking for a job in the next 12 months. Forty percent said they had cut spending on luxuries, and 10 percent said they had cut back on necessities; 31 percent said they had cut both.
For all that, the number of people who said they thought the country was headed in the right direction jumped from 15 percent in mid-January, just before Mr. Obama took office, to 39 percent today, while the number who said it was headed in the wrong direction dropped to 53 percent from 79 percent. That is the highest percentage of Americans who said the country was headed in the right direction since 42 percent said so in February 2005, the second month of President George W. Bush's second term.
The percentage of people who said the economy was getting worse has declined from 54 percent just before Mr. Obama took office to 34 percent today. And 20 percent now think the economy is getting better, compared with 7 percent in mid-January.
''It's psychology more than anything else,'' Arthur Gilman, a Republican from Ridgewood, N.J., said in a follow-up interview to the poll. ''President Obama has turned around the negative feeling in this country. He's given everything an impetus because he's very upbeat, like Roosevelt was. It's too soon to tell if the spending stuff works, but some things have improved.''
Frank Henwood, an independent from Amarillo, Tex., said: ''Hopefully, the stock market has bottomed out and is on the rise. Once the stock market shapes up, I think the economy will come back, and then jobs will come back and people will start buying automobiles made in America.''
With the poll finding that an overwhelming number think the recession will last a year or more, Mr. Obama may find he has a deep well of patience to draw on. The poll found that he shoulders virtually none of the public blame for the economic crisis: 33 percent blame Mr. Bush, 21 percent blame financial institutions, and 11 percent blame Congress.
By more than three to one, voters said they trusted Mr. Obama more than they trusted Congressional Republicans to make the right decisions about the economy. And by more than two to one, they said they trusted Mr. Obama to keep the nation safe, typically a Republican strong suit. Nearly one-quarter of Republicans said they trusted Mr. Obama more than Congressional Republicans to make the right decisions about the economy.
''As far as acting like adults and getting things done, the Democrat Party has done better,'' said Rachel Beeson, an independent from Wahiawa, Hawaii. ''The Republican Party seems to have decided that they are going to turn down anything that comes out of the White House, and nothing will get done that way.''
The poll showed signs of continued political division: 57 percent of people who said they voted for Senator John McCain in November said they disapproved of Mr. Obama's performance. While Mr. Obama's budget proposal enjoys the support of 56 percent of Americans over all, sentiments splinter along party lines: 79 percent of Democrats said his budget had the right priorities, compared with 27 percent of Republicans.
The survey was conducted Wednesday through Sunday, while Mr. Obama was in Europe for the Group of 20 summit of the world's largest economies. Two-thirds of respondents said leaders of other countries had respect for Mr. Obama; when a similar question was asked in July 2006, 30 percent of respondents said foreign leaders had respect for Mr. Bush.
The national telephone poll was conducted with 998 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Even as Americans strongly support Mr. Obama, they do not necessarily support all of his initiatives. For example, 58 percent disapprove of his proposal to bail out banks. But the percentage of respondents who said they thought it would benefit all Americans, rather than only bankers, jumped from 29 percent in February to 47 percent now, signaling that the White House might be making progress in changing perceptions of the plan.
And as Mr. Obama has proposed a vast expansion in spending and programs, 48 percent of Americans said they preferred a smaller government providing fewer services, while 41 percent preferred a bigger government with more services.
Americans remain concerned about the growing national debt being passed on to future generations, but in the face of the current economic troubles, they are divided over whether it is necessary to increase debt. Forty-six percent said the government should not incur further debt, but 45 percent said the government should spend money to stimulate the economy even though it would increase the budget deficit.
Amid evidence of a surge of populism in response to abuses on Wall Street, respondents said by more than two to one that Democrats cared more about the needs of people like themselves than Republicans did. Seventy-one percent of Americans said Mr. Obama cared more about the interests of ordinary people than about large corporations.
Mr. Obama's push to increase income taxes on people making over $250,000 a year was supported by 74 percent of respondents. When presented with the possibility that taxing those in the higher income bracket might hurt the economy, 39 percent of those polled still backed the plan.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The percentage of people who feel the country is going in the right direction is back to levels not seen since the beginning of President George W. Bush's second term.
The percentage of people feeling the economy is getting better grew from February to April.
After two and a half months in office, President Obama has broad support on the economy and national security. (pg.A1)
Views of the Parties
 Personal Finances (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



267 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Military Budget Reflects a Shift In U.S. Strategy

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates announced a major reshaping of the Pentagon budget on Monday, with deep cuts in many traditional weapons systems but new billions of dollars for others, along with more troops and new technology to fight the insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The decisions are expected to set off a vigorous round of lobbying over the priorities embroidered into the Defense Department's half-trillion dollars of annual spending. They represent the first broad rethinking of American military strategy under the Obama administration, which plans to shift more money to counterterrorism in Iraq and Afghanistan while spending less on preparations for conventional warfare against large nations like China and Russia.
Mr. Gates announced cuts in missile defense programs, the Army's expensive Future Combat Systems and Navy shipbuilding operations. He would kill controversial programs to build a new presidential helicopter and a new communications satellite system, delay the development of a new bomber and order only four more of the advanced F-22 fighter jets. 
But he also said plans to increase the size of the Army and the Marine Corps, while halting reductions in Air Force and Navy personnel, would cost an additional $11 billion. He also announced an extra $2 billion for intelligence and surveillance equipment, including new Predator and Reaper drones, the remote-controlled vehicles currently used in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq for strikes against militants, and more spending on special forces and training foreign military units.
More broadly, Mr. Gates signaled that he hoped to impose a new culture on the Pentagon -- making the system more flexible and responsive to the needs of the troops in the way it chooses and buys weapons.
Even so, he acknowledged that it would be hard, with the economic crisis and concerns in Congress over jobs, to ''make tough choices about specific systems and defense priorities based solely on the national interest and then stick to those decisions over time.''
Military experts said Mr. Gates seemed to be mounting a determined effort to rein in some of the most troubled programs after years of record military spending and start dealing with the huge cost overruns and delays that have plagued so many programs.
But some noted that other presidents and defense secretaries had been stymied in making similar efforts in the past, and they said that leaders of military-related committees in Congress would undoubtedly try to save the F-22, C-17 cargo planes and other systems that Mr. Gates would like to cut.
Representative Ike Skelton, the Missouri Democrat who is chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said Monday in a statement that while Mr. Gates's proposed budget was a ''good faith'' effort, ''the buck stops with Congress, which has the critical constitutional responsibility to decide whether to support these proposals.''
And some military analysts reacted to Mr. Gates's promise of budget revolution with skepticism. Andrew H. Krepinevich Jr., a military expert at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said that it was hard to tell how much Mr. Gates was reducing spending over all because he was increasing spending in unspecified amounts in some areas and had not put a net dollar amount on his entire proposal.
Mr. Krepinevich said he anticipated that Mr. Gates's reductions would not close the $25 billion to $50 billion Bush-era gap between military programs and the spending for them, and that future cuts would most likely be needed.
He noted that some of Mr. Gates's cuts were less than draconian. While the secretary chose to emphasize smaller, speedy ships for close-in waters, the slower shipbuilding he proposed for the deep-water Navy would not reduce the number of aircraft-carrier battle groups at sea to 10 from 11 until after 2040.
While he capped the number of the $150 million combat plane, the Air Force's F-22, at 187, he promised to speed the testing of another fighter, the F-35, and maintain plans to eventually buy 2,443 of the planes. While he canceled the purchases of eight Army vehicles to allow for more study and a rebidding, he said he would also speed the development of costly electronic sensors for troops.
And while he promised to fix the flawed procurement processes that allow weapons prices to soar, he said he wanted to hire tens of thousands of civil servants to do the work, since contracting that out to the private sector has not proven efficient.
''The perennial procurement and contracting cycle, going back many decades, of adding layer and layer of cost and complexity onto fewer and fewer platforms that take longer and longer to build, must come to an end,'' he said. ''There is broad agreement on the need for acquisition and contracting reform in the Department of Defense. There have been enough studies, enough hand-wringing, enough rhetoric. Now is the time for action.''
The changes will mean fewer big ships, and a reduction in the number of Army brigades, but with the same number of troops so that the combat forces are not hollowed out, and bolstering the Army's helicopter forces, Mr. Gates said. He added that he wanted to add 2,800 to the ranks of special forces troops and more cybersecurity experts.
Spending on missile defense programs will be scaled back by $1.4 billion over all. Mr. Gates proposed increasing spending to defend against relatively limited attacks by smaller powers with shorter-range missiles, adding interceptors aboard ships but not on land in Alaska. But he would cancel or delay some of the more exotic programs to counter intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Mr. Gates also said that while he planned to halt a Navy program to build a new class of stealth destroyers, he would finish constructing the first three ships if the contractors agreed to allow all of them to be built at one shipyard instead of the dividing the work between two yards. Otherwise, he would only build one of the $3 billion ships.
This year Mr. Gates made the unusual decision to publicly announce his proposed reductions in the Pentagon budget before the recommendations are sent to the White House.
Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee, told reporters last week that Mr. Gates, a Republican who has worked for eight presidents of both parties, may have been trying to provide some political cover for Mr. Obama over the cuts.
Representative Tom Price, a Georgia Republican, reacted strongly against Mr. Gates's proposal to end spending for the F-22, which employs 25,000 workers in Georgia and across the country.
''It's outrageous that President Obama is willing to bury the country under a mountain of debt with his reckless domestic agenda but refuses to fund programs critical to our national defense,'' Mr. Price said in a statement.
In addition, a bipartisan group of six senators urged Mr. Gates not to make large cuts in missile defense programs. In a letter to Mr. Obama, they said the reductions ''could undermine our emerging missile defense capabilities to protect the United States against a growing threat.''
The group included the Republicans Jon Kyl of Arizona, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Jeff Sessions of Alabama, James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma as well as Mark Begich, Democrat of Alaska, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, and Gen. James E. Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, discussed the Pentagon budget on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) GRAPHICS: CHANGES IN THE PENTAGON BUDGET: PROGRAM, WHAT WOULD CHANGE (Sources: Department of Defense
 ''Defense Acquisitions Assessments of Selected Weapon Programs,'' by the Government Accountability Office) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); FUTURE COMBAT SYSTEMS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); TERRORISM (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (68%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (56%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (53%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); IKE SKELTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



268 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Flying Healthy, From Takeoff Past Landing

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
Two decades ago on a midwinter flight from New York to Chile en route to Antarctica, more than a dozen fellow travelers and I came down with bronchitis. When the Antarctic voyage got under way, so many people were sick that the ship's doctor nearly ran out of antibiotics.
 Since that trip, I have diligently followed a preventive routine whenever I fly. 
 I prepare far enough in advance to be sure I am well rested and minimally stressed when I leave.
 Just before the flight I take echinacea and 1,000 milligrams of vitamin C. (The immunity-boosting powers of these supplements are still much debated, but they seem to work for me.)
 During the flight I drink lots of water -- but no alcohol and minimal caffeine -- to keep protective membranes well hydrated.
 I wash my hands often and keep them away from my eyes and nose.
 Though I can cite no studies that endorse my routine, I have never again become ill from flying -- and I fly dozens of times a year, sometimes halfway around the world. The regimen has also protected a former head of the Federal Aviation Agency, who would get pneumonia when he flew from New York to Colorado or Australia to visit his sons.
 I also take precautions to prevent blood clots, which is a special concern because I am short. In addition to staying well hydrated, I always book an aisle seat so I can get up easily and walk around at least once an hour. On very long flights, I wear compression stockings.
 Rising Risks
 Each year nearly two billion people travel aboard commercial airlines. Yet as two experts in emergency medicine noted in February in The Lancet, ''Many passengers are unaware of health implications associated with commercial air travel.''
 Data on inflight medical problems are limited, and no one keeps track of how many people become sick from flights after they leave the airplane. But the experts, Dr. Danielle Silverman of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, and Dr. Mark Gendreau of the Lahey Clinic Medical Center in Burlington, Mass., maintain that flight risks to health are rising because ''the age of travelers is increasing, and long-haul aircrafts, such as the Airbus A380 and Boeing 777LR, are now capable of extending flight times to 18 to 20 hours.''
 Older passengers are more likely to have health problems that can be aggravated by air travel, especially on long flights. Infectious diseases known to have been spread to people of all ages by air travel include influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (or SARS) and tuberculosis, not to mention the common cold.
 Several factors can affect the health of airline passengers, including changes in cabin pressure that reduce oxygen supply; immobility and dehydration that raise the risk of blood clots for all passengers, not just those in the tighter space of economy class; exposure to passengers with infectious diseases; and jet lag when crossing multiple time zones. Flight crews also face chronic exposure to cosmic radiation, which is a hazard for pregnant women as well.
 Passenger Protection
 Some commercial airlines have taken steps to minimize health risks and their consequences, like offering passengers plenty of water during flights and recommending exercises that keep blood from pooling in the legs. All flights carry emergency medical kits, and most now also have an automatic defibrillator to rescue passengers whose hearts develop an erratic rhythm, which can be fatal within minutes.
 But the bulk of any protection may depend on you, the passenger. If you have a chronic health problem, the Lancet authors suggest a preflight medical assessment to determine whether it is safe for you to fly and what precautions you should take if you do fly.
 Airline cabins are commonly pressurized to altitudes of 1,524 to 2,438 meters, or about 5,000 to 8,000 feet, above sea level. Healthy people have no problem at such altitudes, but those with underlying heart or respiratory disease who may already have low levels of oxygen in their blood can develop symptoms of mountain sickness -- fatigue, headache, lightheadedness and nausea. Those passengers may need supplementary oxygen when flying, the doctors wrote.
 Even healthy passengers may develop mild abdominal cramps and ear problems as gas in body cavities expands with rising altitudes. The doctors warned against flying too soon after surgery, and they cautioned scuba divers against flying within 12 hours of a dive (24 hours for those who do several dives a day), lest they develop decompression sickness.
 The risk of blood clots starts to rise four hours into a flight and peaks on flights of more than eight hours. Flying business class offers no protection, despite the expanded leg room, research has shown. The more flights taken within two weeks, the greater the risk. Passengers who are obese, have cancer, recently had surgery, take oral contraceptives or have conditions that raise their susceptibility to blood clots (including genetic conditions like factor V Leiden) are at particular risk of flight-induced clots. Many may benefit from blood thinners when flying. 
 On long flights, the less that passengers move about the cabin and the less water they consume, the greater the risk. Wearing compression stockings and exercising the calf muscle during the flight can lower the risk.
 Steps Against Jet Lag
 While exposure to cosmic radiation is not considered a problem even for frequent air travelers unless they are pregnant, anyone can develop jet lag from abrupt changes in multiple time zones. After a westward flight, it can take a day to adjust for every time zone crossed; after an eastward flight, a day and a half. 
 Although controlling exposure to sunlight is the best way to limit jet lag, it can be challenging for some travelers, so the doctors recommend taking melatonin (0.5 to 5 milligrams). When flying eastward, try to get morning light (wear sunglasses only in the afternoon) and take melatonin at the desired bedtime. When flying westward, get afternoon light (wear sunglasses only in the morning) and take melatonin in the morning. And in either direction, be sure to stay well hydrated.
 To prevent contagious illnesses, the most important measure is to be sure all your immunizations are up to date, including annual flu shots. The Lancet authors noted that the ''risk of onboard transmission of infection is mainly restricted to individuals with either close personal contact or seated within two rows'' of an infected passenger. 
 But since there may be no way to know who sitting near you might be infectious, my regimen should not hurt and may very well protect you.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); SARS (87%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); COMMON COLD (77%); PNEUMONIA (77%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); INFLUENZA (72%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ANTARCTICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



269 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Madoff Case Puts Harsh Light on Investment Advisers

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Kenneth A. Flatto paid a lot of money for expert advice about investing the pensions of municipal workers in Fairfield, Conn. Unfortunately, he says, the experts never warned him about Bernard L. Madoff. 
 Fairfield was not snookered by some sharper peddling that old Madoff magic. Instead, Mr. Flatto says, the town was relying on the skill of one of the nation's largest investment consultants, NEPC. 
 The name NEPC probably does not ring many bells. But NEPC and businesses like it play a pivotal -- and at times controversial -- role as the gatekeepers of the investing world. They stand between trillions of dollars of public and corporate pension money and investment professionals who want a piece of it. And those professionals, it turns out, include the likes of Mr. Madoff, who masterminded a global Ponzi scheme. 
 NEPC says it urged Fairfield to reduce its investments in a Madoff-linked fund before the scheme came to light. But Mr. Flatto, Fairfield's first selectman and the trustee of its $300 million investment portfolio, contends that NEPC did not do enough. Fairfield paid NEPC $100,000 a year to help it pick investments. The two sides are arguing in court over who will bear the blame for $19 million in losses. 
 The Madoff affair is rife with finger-pointing. Federal regulators, banks that did business with Mr. Madoff and even his investors have faced criticism. 
 But the giant Ponzi scheme and similar investment frauds coming to light in recent months have also trained a spotlight on pension and investment consultants like NEPC. For years, troubling questions about these businesses have percolated through the financial industry and the courts. Now, calls for change are growing. 
 Some consultants, their critics maintain, have conflicts in cases where they collect money as consultants and from the funds they recommend. While others, particularly those specializing in vetting secretive hedge funds, are paid a bounty by the hedge funds for steering investors' money to the funds. And then there are those, their detractors say, who simply fall down on the job. These consultants are hired to keep pension funds out of trouble. But many blessed investments that turned out to be losers -- or worse, outright frauds. 
 Long a backwater, investment consulting took off during the mid-1990s as hedge funds, private equity funds and other so-called alternative investments exploded onto the financial scene. Big investors like pension funds and endowments wanted a piece of the action, but many lacked the time, staff and expertise required to sift through the growing list of investment options. 
 Enter the consultants. On their advice, big investors shifted hundreds of billions of dollars into investments like hedge funds, the loosely regulated pools of private capital. The idea was that hedge funds would provide the outsize returns that pension funds needed to cover their obligations to retirees. 
 Now the hedge fund industry is going through an unprecedented shakeout. Investors have lost many billions, and hundreds of these funds have closed. Some public pension funds are considering reducing their hedge fund exposure and have cut ties with those advisers who, they say, gave them bad advice that led to losses. Some federal officials and regulators have warned for years about potential problems in the consulting business.
 The Labor Department, for instance, started examining the industry in 2007, and its inquiry is starting to bear fruit. This month, the department settled with Consulting Services Group, based in Memphis, over conflicts of interest. Last December, it sued Zenith Capital Partners, a Santa Rosa, Calif., pension consultant, claiming that Zenith had accepted payments from a hedge fund for steering pension clients to it. 
 ''What we are looking at are pension fund consultants who are fiduciaries, but who use their fiduciary position for their own benefit,'' said Virginia C. Smith, director of enforcement at the Labor Department. ''We were a step ahead in looking at these issues before Madoff.'' 
 A common complaint is that consultants shirked their responsibility to protect their clients and pushed public pension boards into hedge funds to collect large fees. 
 ''Yes, pension consultants pushed hedge funds onto pension funds,'' said Edward A. H. Siedle, president of Benchmark Financial Services in Ocean Ridge, Fla., a company that investigates money managers on behalf of pension funds. ''They did this because the fees they could garner are exponentially greater than from a regular advisory retainer.'' 
 Investors are discovering that some hedge funds, and perhaps the consultants who vetted them, are not all they were cracked up to be. 
 For instance, on the advice of Wilshire Associates, another leading pension advisory firm, the Iowa state pension fund, as well as the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University, poured millions into a hedge fund called Westridge Capital. 
 Westridge, the authorities now contend, was a fraud. Iowa hired a law firm to try to recover some of the $339 million it lost on Westridge, and has recovered $35 million already. 
 Julie Economaki, a spokeswoman for the Iowa fund, declined to comment on whether it would file suit against Wilshire, which is based in Santa Monica, Calif. Kim Shepherd, a spokeswoman for Wilshire, declined to comment, saying that the business did not comment on matters involving its clients. 
 ''What you've seen in the last five years is a proliferation of pension fund consultants,'' said Ross B. Intelisano, a securities lawyer who represents institutional investors. ''And, you've seen a failure of consultants to do proper due diligence. The fact that any of these public funds are in a Madoff or a Westridge is amazing to me.''
 Fairfield conceded that NEPC had told the town that Mr. Madoff advised a fund in its portfolio, the Maxam Absolute Return Fund. But the town contended that NEPC had not mentioned that Maxam was a Madoff feeder fund, taking Fairfield's money and investing it with Mr. Madoff. 
 The town says that NEPC should have seen obvious red flags over Mr. Madoff's securities business, such as his use of an obscure auditing firm. 
 ''We were in the dark as to what was happening,'' Mr. Flatto, the selectman, said. 
 Sean Findlen, a spokesman for NEPC, said that Fairfield's investment in the Madoff feeder fund predated the hiring of NEPC and that the firm had not recommended Mr. Madoff or any of his feeder funds. In fact, Mr. Findlen said, NEPC recommended that Fairfield reduce its exposure to Maxam, but the town did not heed its advice. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth A. Flatto, the trustee of Fairfield's investment portfolio in Connecticut, with Jennifer Carpenter, an aide. He says experts he paid for advice did not warn him of the Madoff risks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT ADVISERS (91%); PONZI SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENDOWMENTS (68%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



270 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Not Home, but Not a Hotel

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
It is ever so humble, but the usual dwelling for road warriors on long stints out of town is no place like home. Now, though, there are more options than expensive and charmless hotel rooms or large corporate apartments.
 One way around both shortcomings is to use one of the Web sites that have sprung up to play matchmaker between employers and property owners. Sites like CorporateHousingByOwner.com, RentalSpaceNetwork.com and Tchnetwork.com list midrange to upscale apartments to rent for weeks or months.
 Those upscale apartments, in better economic times, would have sold quickly at high prices. But now, instead of trying to sell them at a fraction of what they were worth a few years ago -- if they could be sold -- the owners are buying time and making some money through the corporate rentals. 
 ''Landlords right now are in a troublesome situation with everyone pinching pennies,'' said Wesley Zlotoff, chief executive of RentalSpaceNetwork.com in Scottsdale, Ariz. ''They can't sell their property because no one's buying, so this way they can get as much for it as possible.''
 The properties are often less expensive than the old options as well, making them especially attractive as companies look for ways to cut travel costs.
 ''If it's done right, it can be a win-win for everybody,'' said John Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a recruiting and outplacement firm in Chicago. ''The landlord can make space usable, the employee is happy to have a place that's more private and have some of his or her things there, and the company saves money.''
 At the same time, some lodging chains, notably Hilton, Marriott and InterContinental, have expanded their lines of extended-stay hotels, which feature kitchens and rent by the week or month.
 The number of extended-stay rooms rose 9.2 percent in the first 11 months of 2008, compared with 2.6 percent growth for all hotel rooms, according to the research firm STR Global. Demand for extended-stay rooms increased by 3.5 percent in that period, while the broad industry experienced a 1.5 percent decline.
 Extended-stay hotels and corporate housing sites appear to be thriving because so much else in the economy is not. The main customers for the apartment rental Web sites are property owners who pay a listing fee. Some have cultivated relationships with employers. 
 CorporateHousingByOwner.com, based in Highlands Ranch, Colo., has about 2,000 registered companies, said Kimberly Smith, its chief executive. 
 The site helps line up apartments for companies moving large numbers of employees, as often happens in industries like defense and energy, Ms. Smith said. The companies pay no fee for the assistance or to register. The site benefits from the demand for properties created by their presence.
 To lure a corporate clientele, most units are furnished and wired for technology -- cable or satellite television, high-speed Internet access, telephone -- and stocked with cutlery, dishes, kitchen appliances and linen. Even with these items, renters often find the apartments cheaper than alternatives like hotel rooms or apartments. 
 That was the case for Go To Team, a Charleston, S.C., company that makes sports video footage for television networks. The availability of a cheaper place -- a condominium listed on CorporateHousingByOwner.com -- allowed the company to bid low enough to win a contract this year to cover an event in Miami.
 ''I wasn't going to be able to afford a hotel room for two guys for two weeks,'' said Skip Clark, Go To Team's director of photography, who shot the assignment with a sound engineer. He and his colleague spent as much for the condo and the home-cooked meals as hotel rooms alone would have cost.
 ''It was nice having a fridge and a kitchen,'' Mr. Clark said. ''We didn't have to go out to eat every night. This is when a corporate condo comes into play.''
 A kitchen and other homey accoutrements also appealed to Chet Rodell, who is renting a loft in Denver for several weeks with a colleague as he opens an office for Human Channel Marketing, a company in Utah that generates business for cable television operators.
 ''We work very hard, and coming home to a quiet, comfortable place makes a huge difference,'' said Mr. Rodell, who found the loft through CorporateHousingByOwner.com. ''The cost is comparable to short stays at hotels and motels, but the experience is so much better.''
 Still, anyone using a housing site should not expect a palace or the Ritz at the cost of a basic, down-market flat. The listed accommodations are likely to have many of the comforts of home and also some of the discomforts.
 ''There were goofy little things'' in the condo in Miami that he rented, Mr. Clark recalled. ''It was in an older building, and it had a small TV on an odd wall mounting. It wasn't a swank place on the beach.''
 Still, it was his first experience using a corporate housing site, and he found it pleasant enough to consider making similar arrangements on future road trips.
 ''Absolutely,'' he said. ''It was an experiment, but it's probably something we'll do more often.''
 Mr. Clark highlighted one other feature of the condo, something seldom available in a hotel, that made it feel somewhat like home.
 ''I was able to bring my dog,'' he said. ''It was awesome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jesse Wood, foreground, and Chet Rodell stay in a Denver loft as they work for Human Channel Marketing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEB SITES (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%)

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



271 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Like Comfort Food, Warm and Fuzzy Makes a Comeback

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IF music hath charm to soothe the savage breast, what can calm worried consumers during an economic crisis? Madison Avenue believes one answer is nostalgia.
 As the recession continues taking its toll, marketers are trying to tap into fond memories to help sell what few products shoppers are still buying. The time-machine tactics are primarily evoking four decades -- the 1950s through the 1980s.
 For instance, on April 20 a beverage unit of PepsiCo will begin an eight-week campaign for ''throwback'' versions of two soft drinks, Pepsi-Cola and Mountain Dew. The packages and formulas, along with advertising and promotions, will evoke the '60s and '70s. 
 The hope is that warm, fuzzy feelings about the past will help make people feel better about the present and future.
 ''It's about yearning for the past, a simpler time, even though the '60s and '70s were not simple,'' said Frank Cooper, chief marketing officer for sparkling beverages at the Pepsi-Cola North America Beverages unit of PepsiCo.
 ''They just seem simple, looking back,'' he added.
 The merchants of nostalgia also include other blue-chip names like Coca-Cola, General Mills, McDonald's, MillerCoors, Target and Unilever. The companies are using marketing tactics including: 
 Reviving vintage slogans and jingles as well as package designs. Diet Coke is being promoted again with ''Just for the taste of it,'' the theme used by the Coca-Cola Company to introduce the soda in 1982. Five Big G cereals from General Mills, among them Cheerios and Trix, were sold in throwback boxes in Target stores, accompanied by a T-shirt offer (cerealwear.com).
 And as part of ''a back-to-our-roots campaign'' for Nationwide insurance to be introduced this month, Eric Hargrove, a company spokesman in Columbus, Ohio, said on Monday, there would be a prominent role for the venerable ''Nationwide is on your side'' jingle. 
 Bringing back familiar products and menu items to stores and restaurants. The Target circular this week features sock monkeys and gumball machines as part of a sale on ''selected retro toys.'' The Carl's Jr. fast-food chain, owned by CKE Restaurants, reintroduced an original menu offering, chili dogs.
 Recreating in ads nostalgic moments from the popular culture. In a commercial for a new sweet tea sold by McDonald's, a man walks home through an urban neighborhood of the '70s. Commercials for the I Can't Believe It's Not Butter line of spreads sold by Unilever feature a make-believe 1950s family named the Buttertons.
 ''In a time of anxiety, people are seeking out brands they're comfortable with and they can trust,'' said Ric Hendee, vice president for marketing services at Cotton Inc. in New York.
 Cotton Inc. is reintroducing a song from 1989, ''The Fabric of Our Lives,'' that served through the 1990s as a jingle in commercials for clothing and home furnishings made from cotton. Research found that women in their 20s and 30s -- the intended audience for messages about cotton's benefits -- ''remember the song and understand what it means,'' Mr. Hendee said.
 ''Even teenage girls'' had some memories of it, he added. The jingle comes back this week in a campaign from DDB Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group.
 Those taking part in the trend acknowledge a potential pitfall of nostalgic pitches: They could lead consumers to believe a brand or product is outdated and therefore not for them.
 To make sure the cotton jingle ''is relevant to a new audience,'' said Cassandra Anderson, creative director at DDB New York, it is being performed by contemporary musicians like Zooey Deschanel, Miranda Lambert and Jazmine Sullivan rather than the previous cotton crooners, Richie Havens and Aaron Neville. Similarly, as Bumble Bee Foods revives its '70s jingle for Bumble Bee tuna -- ''Yum, yum, Bumble Bee, Bumble Bee tuna'' -- the song is being given a fresh presentation. Commercials are centered on a troubadour character, seemingly from the Me Decade, who serenades modern-day consumers eating dishes like tuna sushi and tuna tacos. 
 The campaigns for Bumble Bee and the I Can't Believe It's Not Butter spreads were created by McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. In both cases, the agency avoids wallowing in nostalgia.
 For instance, the members of the Butterton family, and their ardor for butter, serve as a foil for the modern product.
 ''We use what we call a then-and-now set-up,'' said Keith Bobier, senior director for marketing at the Englewood Cliffs, N.J., office of Unilever, ''to show people the difference between life as it used to be and today, when there's far more understanding of health concerns.''
 Hard times have frequently inspired fond looks in the rear-view mirror. There was a nostalgia boom during World War II, as evidenced by movies like ''Meet Me in St. Louis'' and songs like ''Long Ago and Far Away.''
 In the '60s, the American Tobacco Company, now part of Reynolds American, introduced a filtered version of one of its first national cigarette brands, Sweet Caporal.
 In the economic turbulence of the '70s, there was a fad for nostalgia for the '50s. The '60s made a comeback in the '80s and the '70s were revived in the '90s.
 One updated aspect of nostalgic marketing is that it is starting to take place in Internet time. It used to be that an anniversary would be commemorated if a brand or product lasted 20, 25 or 50 years. But a campaign from Viacom and its licensees promoting SpongeBob SquarePants and his friends carries the theme ''Celebrating 10 years of happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marketers are trying to tap into fond memories. Ads for the I Can't Believe It's Not Butter line of spreads feature a make-believe 1950s family named the Buttertons.
 General Mills is using old-style packaging of its cereals, including Cheerios, in Target stores, with a T-shirt offer. Later this month, PepsiCo will begin a campaign for ''throwback'' versions of two soft drinks, Pepsi-Cola and Mountain Dew. The ads and promotions are meant to evoke the '60s and '70s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (84%); PEPSI-COLA NORTH AMERICA (69%); TARGET CORP (68%); PEPSICO INC (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); CKE RESTAURANTS INC (55%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (54%); NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (84%); TGT (NYSE) (68%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (55%); UNIA (AMS) (54%); UNA (BIT) (54%); UNA (AMS) (54%); UN (NYSE) (54%); ULVR (LSE) (54%); UL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (69%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (69%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (68%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (78%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



272 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Abandoned Horses Renews Debate Over Slaughterhouses

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: MURRAY, Ky. 

 BODY:
Emaciated horses eating bark off trees. Abandoned horses tied to telephone poles. Horses subsisting on feces, walking among carcasses. 
 As the economy continues to falter, law enforcement officers in Kentucky and throughout the country are seeing major increases in the number of unwanted and neglected horses, some abandoned on public land, others left to starve by their owners.
 The situation has renewed the debate over whether reopening slaughterhouses in the United States -- the last ones closed in 2007 -- would help address the problem. Some states, Missouri, Montana and North and South Dakota, for example, are looking at ways to bring slaughterhouses back. 
 An estimated 100,000 horses a year are shipped to Canada and Mexico for slaughter, prompting Congress to consider a bill that would ban the sale and transport of horses for human consumption outside the country. But Arkansas, Georgia and eight other states are against such a ban, saying owners need affordable options for unwanted horses.
 Last week in Montana, the Legislature approved a bill allowing the construction of horse-slaughter facilities. Gov. Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat who supports reinstating the slaughterhouse, vetoed a provision that would have limited appeals by opponents. 
 But Keith Dane, a spokesman for the Humane Society of the United States, which opposes horse slaughter, said that the Montana bill was unnecessary because horse slaughter was already legal in the state, and that it would essentially quash the opposition's right to try to stop the opening of a slaughterhouse for environmental and other reasons. 
 ''We think it's unconstitutional and probably a handout to the horse slaughter industry,'' Mr. Dane said.
 Also unresolved in the overall debate is whether the closing of slaughterhouses contributed to the growing numbers of unwanted horses, driving down the price of the animals to as little as $50 each at auction. 
 ''Bottom line is you have to separate the animal from the pet,'' said State Representative Edward B. Butcher, a Republican who wrote the Montana bill.
 ''No one has to send a horse to a processing plant,'' he added. ''It's just an option for horses that are unusable. And it's much more humane than leaving them there to starve to death.''
 According to the Humane Society, the United States sent 98,363 horses to Canada and Mexico for slaughter last year. As of March 28, 17,758 horses had been sent to those two countries for slaughter.
 The rising abandonment of horses is straining law enforcement officers, who, while facing tightened budgets, must learn about the animal and the laws that govern them. Dealing with the legal aspect of neglect can be even trickier. In Kentucky, where horses are a way of life, cruelty laws are vague and jurisdiction is left to each of the state's 120 counties, many of which work with a humane society that shelters seized animals.
 Mark Arenson, an animal control officer here in Calloway County who has spent his career investigating cruelty to dogs and cats, was among 15 animal-control agents, sheriffs and shelter directors who took a three-day, hands-on class at Murray State University offered by the Kentucky Horse Council, a nonprofit organization. 
 On a bright March afternoon, Mr. Arenson learned to feel for protruding ribs, a sign of starvation; to look at the hooves, which should be short and trimmed or the horse will limp; and to be careful when approaching from behind, because a startled horse might kick. 
 ''I don't know much about horses,'' Mr. Arenson said. ''A lot of this is new information for me.''
 Brandon Gallimore, a deputy sheriff in Calloway County, about 100 miles northwest of Nashville, found himself in a pasture filled with horses, checking for distinct marks like brands and hair whorls to identify the horses in court proceedings. 
 Later he stood inside a small stall, where he gingerly walked around a horse with his hand on its flank as a warning before he lifted its tail. 
 ''You get a little skittish when you're around a 1,200-pound horse,'' Mr. Gallimore said. ''But now I know what you can learn and what you can get away with by watching their eyes.'' 
 There are no firm statistics on how many horses have been abandoned here or nationally, but the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said it had been overwhelmed with reports of neglected horses and had given rescue facilities its year's worth of emergency hay in just two months. 
 Where numbers are kept, they are startling. Officials in Nevada said 63 horses were abandoned on state land last year, compared with 11 in 2007. In Sweetwater County, Wyo., where abandoned horses were previously unheard of, 20 were recovered last year. And in Texas, about 170 horses were rescued from a ranch in Hill County last month in what the authorities called one of largest livestock seizures in state history. 
 The authorities there said they believed that the owner had bought hundreds of horses cheaply and was planning on selling them when the market turned. ''They were putting the minimal amount of money in to keep the horses alive,'' said Clint Ward of the Hill County Sheriff's Office. 
 Many states are strengthening their animal cruelty statutes. The Oregon Senate passed a bill in March making horse abandonment a crime, and Arizona legislators are considering a public listing of equine rescue facilities. 
 Lori Neagle, executive director of the Kentucky Equine Humane Center, a nonprofit group based in Nicholasville that tries to find homes for unwanted horses, said, ''Every day, it's phone calls saying, 'I can't afford to keep them, I'm losing my farm.' '' 
 Although horses were always a financial stretch for Andy and Rose Cardinale of Swanville, Me., they found a way to make do until last year, when they lost their business and their home. 
 The Cardinales took two of their five horses to the Last Chance Ranch, an equine rescue facility in Troy, Me.; two others are being cared for elsewhere, and the third, a stallion, they are struggling to keep. Mr. Cardinale has taken on part-time work as a police dispatcher. 
 Another desperate owner forced to surrender a horse she can no longer afford is Erin O'Brien, a 24-year-old student from Corinna, Me. 
 ''It was either pay for my schooling and better myself or keep him,'' Ms. O'Brien said of her horse, Amos. Ms. O'Brien stood on a frigid Maine night in Amos's stall, gently stroking his head and kissing him. 
 ''I love you, baby,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Picente noted identifying marks of horses at a training session for law enforcement and animal-control agents in Murray, Ky. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The nation's economic downturn is taking a toll on horses like these seized in Candia, N.H., as some owners can no longer afford to care for them. Some states are considering reopening slaughterhouses
the last ones in the United States closed in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETYL MACALASTER
 DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); HORSE MEAT (90%); HORSES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); ANIMALS (89%); STARVATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); VETO (78%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); APPROVALS (52%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (55%)

PERSON: BRIAN SCHWEITZER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



273 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE TOXIC AVENGER'; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Geek Turns Superhero To Save A Town

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
What's big and green and sings pop-rock anthems while tearing off the limbs of evildoers? The Toxic Avenger, the mutant superhero born of a shlocky cult movie who has now been given the supreme honor of inspiring a stage musical. 
 Actually, the dopey, intermittently funny show that opened on Monday night at New World Stages is not the first all-singing, all-dancing adaptation of this horror spoof dreamed up in the 1980s by Lloyd Kaufman, the no-brow auteur behind the nigh-legendary cheesy-flick manufacturer Troma Entertainment. 
 Um, it's not even the second. 
 This new version, with book by Joe DiPietro (''I Love you, You're Perfect, Now Change'') and music by the Bon Jovi member David Bryan, is at least the third attempt to transform Melvin, the geek turned righteous monster of the movie, into a Sweeney Todd for our times. Clearly some fictional characters are born to sing, but who could have imagined that Mr. Kaufman would become the new Metastasio? 
 If you can't quite place Metastasio, he wrote opera libretti in the 18th century that were used and reused by various composers. Possibly this review is the first time these two artists' names have ever appeared in a single paragraph. (And by the way, wouldn't Metastasio be a great name for a superhero?) 
 For those unfamiliar with Mr. Kaufman's oeuvre, ''The Toxic Avenger,'' originally released in the mid-'80s, is a microbudgeted movie about a New Jersey nerd who acquires super powers and a nasty disposition after he is chased into a vat of toxic goo by bullying tormentors. Mr. DiPietro and Mr. Bryan have streamlined the movie's story and added an eco angle while sticking to a basic boy-meets-girl, boy-becomes-rampaging-creature outline.
 In their version, while visiting the library where the object of his affections, Sarah (Sara Chase) works, Melvin Ferd (Nick Cordero) stumbles across some documents proving that the corporation filling the fields of Tromaville, N.J., with toxic waste is owned by the mayor, Babs Belgoody (Nancy Opel). 
 When he confronts Babs with his discovery, she dispatches a couple of goons to give him a lesson in damage control, Jersey-style. After they plunk Melvin in a barrel of green glop, geek becomes freak, with brains half-exposed and an eyeball dripping onto his cheek. But the new-model Melvin has superhuman powers too, and sets about righting wrongs while also trying to woo his sweetheart, Sarah, who is blind, in his new guise. 
 There's not much more in the way of drama, but the real problem with ''Toxic Avenger'' is less the paucity of plot than the monotony of the elbow-in-ribs handling. Mr. Bryan's music is competent but hardly complicated pop-rock that provides a plain base for his and Mr. DiPietro's relatively crude lyrics. 
 ''Now I don't mean to be mean,'' sings the vengeful hero, ''but I'm about to remove your spleen!'' A sampling of the song titles -- ''Get the Geek,'' ''Big Green Freak,'' ''Hot Toxic Love,'' ''Evil Is Hot,'' ''All Men Are Freaks'' -- should indicate the general bluntness of the approach.
 Musicals based on preposterously unlikely material have become fairly commonplace -- we have already been exposed to ''Evil Dead: The Musical,'' for heaven's sake -- so you don't get a free pass for simply choosing a cheesy movie and making it sing. The joke is getting stale. ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' perhaps the progenitor of the genre, had wit, charm and a melodic, lovable retro score. Only a few songs in ''Toxic Avenger'' rise above the generic in either music or lyrics. (Mr. DiPietro wins a point for rhyming ''macho'' with ''gazpacho,'' but would a girl who thinks Toxic is a French name really know about that Spanish soup?)
 Mr. DiPietro's book is on the same head-banging level. I lost count of the jokes playing on Sarah's blindness somewhere in the double digits. (Trying to shelve books, Sarah keeps dropping them on the floor. Sarah wanders offstage in the middle of a duet. Sarah puts Drano in the coffee instead of cream. ...) 
 Most of the show's appeal derives from the exuberantly silly performances that the director, John Rando, elicits from his cast of five. Even rank idiocy can tickle when the actors doing the tickling have real talent. 
 Mr. Cordero morphs convincingly from super-nerd to slime-dripping hulk, retaining traces of geekery that glimmer appealingly from under the neon-green gunk. Ms. Chase has a strong, vibrant singing voice, and she plays Sarah with a winning lack of self-consciousness, performing each of her blind-girl gags as if she had no idea there were two dozen more on the way. 
 Ms. Opel, a practiced master at ripe comic parody, differentiates her two roles -- the cackling mayor and Melvin's crabby mother -- impressively, particularly in the mock-bravura number in which the two characters perform a duet and she is required to flit in and out of the scenery, changing wigs and costumes in seconds.
 The hard-working supporting cast -- all two of them, Matthew Saldivar and Demond Green -- also earn many big laughs by taking on multiple roles. Mr. Green plays a scientist in sexual thrall to the evil mayor and displays a robust affinity for camp as both a backup singer in a girl-group love song and a tetchy hairdresser. Mr. Saldivar shines in one of the show's funniest numbers, a Bruce Springsteen folk-rock parody, ''The Legend of the Toxic Avenger.''
 The musical makes an in-joke of these laborious performances in the finale, when all the actors race around the stage, and Mr. Saldivar and Mr. Green keep reappearing in different guises, wigs and costumes half-askew. 
 Given the cheapo provenance of the material, this winking approach to the show's minimal cast is funny enough. But it might be funnier if full-priced tickets to ''Toxic Avenger'' did not run to $85. For the price of a pair the economical Mr. Kaufman could probably have filmed a whole trilogy.
 THE TOXIC AVENGER
 Book and lyrics by Joe DiPietro; music and lyrics by David Bryan; based on Lloyd Kaufman's movie ''The Toxic Avenger''; directed by John Rando; sets by Beowulf Boritt; costumes by David C. Woolard; lighting by Kenneth Posner; sound by Kurt Fischer; hair and wig design by Mark Adam Rampmeyer; fight directors, Rick Sordelet and David Debesse; prosthetics and special effects designed by John Dods; music director, Doug Katsaros; orchestrations and arrangements by Mr. Bryan and Christopher Janke; choreography by Wendy Seyb. Presented by Jean Cheever and Tom Polum. At New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. 
 WITH: Sara Chase (Sarah), Nick Cordero (Melvin Ferd the Third), Demond Green (Black Dude), Matthew Saldivar (White Dude) and Nancy Opel (Mayor Babs Belgoody/Ma Ferd/a Nun). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sara Chase and Nick Cordero in the musical ''The Toxic Avenger'' at New World Stages. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); FILM (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); MUSIC (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HORROR FILMS (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); NEW CAR MODELS (69%); BULLYING (68%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Toxic Avenger, The (Play); Toxic Avenger, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



274 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 42 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Monday about the growing number of the unemployed seeking work as film and television extras in New York misstated part of the name of one Manhattan casting agency in some editions. It is the Extra Talent Agency, not Extra Talent Management. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); TALENT AGENTS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



275 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Pinched Courts Push to Collect Fees and Fines

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Valerie Gainous paid her debt to society, but almost went to jail because of a debt to Florida's courts.
 In 1996, she was convicted of writing bad checks; she paid restitution, performed community service and thought she was finished with the criminal justice system. This year, however, she received a letter from Collections Court telling her that she was once again facing jail time -- this time for failing to pay $240 in leftover court fees and fines, which she says she cannot afford.
 Ms. Gainous has been caught up in the state's exceptionally aggressive system to collect the court fines and fees that keep its judiciary system working. Judges themselves dun residents who have fallen behind in their payments, but unlike other creditors, they can throw debtors in jail -- and they do, by the thousands.
 As Florida's budget has tightened with the economic crisis, efforts to step up the collections process have intensified, and court clerks say the pressure is on them to bring in every dollar. ''I would say there is an even more dramatic focus on those funds now,'' said Beth Allman, the spokeswoman for the Florida Association of Court Clerks. 
 Other states are intrigued by Florida's success, and several, including Georgia and Michigan, have also cracked down on people who owe fines. John Dew, the executive director of the Florida Clerks of Court Operations Corporation, said that when he attended national conferences about fees collection, states were ''really looking to what we're doing in Florida.''
 With 44 states facing budget deficits totaling $90 billion this year, 25 state court systems already have budget shortfalls, said Dan Hall, the vice president of the National Center for State Courts. Chief Justice Margaret H. Marshall of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court told the American Bar Association in a recent speech that the state courts were in crisis because of budgetary and other issues. 
 States facing lower revenue from income and property taxes are taking action that includes court cutbacks and fee increases. Oregon will try to save $3.1 million by closing its courthouses every Friday for four months and cutting the pay of 1,800 court workers by 20 percent. New Hampshire began suspending civil and criminal jury trials in eight counties for a month, starting last December, and postponed filling seven of the state's 59 vacant judgeships. 
 Massachusetts is looking to cut its court system budget by 7.5 percent, which will almost certainly mean staff cuts. Maine is no longer staffing the metal detector checkpoints at its local courthouses. Utah is looking at imposing an $8 ''conviction fee'' to pay for security and metal detectors; civil filing fees in the state will be raised as well. Florida has cut its court payroll by 10 percent, with more cuts expected. 
 Mr. Hall, of the courts organization, said that when states cut their judicial budgets, they ''really cut deep into the fabric of our society'' by causing delays of weeks or even months in resolving cases. 
 In Iowa, for example, where the courts are trying to make up for a $3.8 million budget cut, courthouses in every county will close for eight days between now and June 30, and travel budgets have been cut for judges who go from county to county to hear cases. This means delays for rural residents who have matters that have to be heard by a district judge, including divorce.
 Access to efficient courts is essential to helping people resolve life's crises, like foreclosures, debt collection, divorce and child support, said Rebecca Love Kourlis, the executive director of the Institute for the Advancement of the American Legal System at the University of Denver. ''You can't put them on the back burner and say, 'We'll get back to you when we have more money and more staffing.' '' 
 Advocates for the poor have urged other states not to follow Florida's example of squeezing defendants harder to make up for budget cuts. Rebekah Diller, deputy director of the justice program at the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law, said the state's system wasted resources ''to get blood from a stone.'' Judges, she said, should not become ''debt collectors in robes,'' which she called both demeaning to the judges and humiliating for the people who must stand before them. 
 Rhode Island seems to agree. Faced with statistics showing that arrests for nonpayment cost far more than they bring in, the state passed a law in August granting judges latitude to waive court debts for poor defendants. 
 Florida, however, has continued to tighten its grip. Since 2004, the Legislature has required courts to support their operating expenses substantially, through fees collected by county clerks. Some of the clerks use collection agents, while about a third use the Collections Courts, state officials said. Here in Leon County alone, 839 people were arrested and jailed in the year ended last September over court debts or failure to appear at Collections Court, according to a study by the Brennan Center. Other Florida counties have less stringent policies.
 Around Leon County, there are some 5,400 outstanding ''blue writs'' -- the civil equivalent of an arrest warrant for failing to appear and pay fees. Some people come in and pay when they receive their summons; others spend a night or more in jail, often having been arrested when the writ pops up during incidents like routine traffic stops. 
 It can be expensive to be arrested. Nancy Daniels, a Florida public defender who works in Tallahassee, said fines and fees for a first offense on third-degree felonies like credit card fraud or possession of cocaine are around $500 -- $340 in court costs, a $100 prosecution fee and $50 for the public defender application fee. If the defendant cannot pay up front, starting a payment plan costs $25. 
 The Brennan study said the program took in only $18,365 for the 12 months studied, after costs, from those arrested. The county court system said a more realistic amount was the $768,000 collected last year, because many people who were not arrested paid their fines to avoid even the threat of being called into court. 
 Constitutional law forbids jailing people solely over fees and fines they cannot pay, but Florida officials argue that, technically, they are jailing people because they violated court orders. 
 Charles A. Francis, the chief judge of the state's Second Judicial Circuit, said most judges found Collections Court ''the most unpleasant part of the job.'' The judges try not to jail people over fees, he said, but added, ''Do you allow the orders of your court to go ignored?''
 Few people are truly unable to afford monthly payments, he argued. 
 Shannon Russell, the supervisor of the Leon County collections department, said: ''People come in and say, 'I can't pay this.' My answer is, 'You shouldn't have gotten arrested.' ''
 When Ms. Gainous appeared in Collections Court recently, Judge Nina Ashenafi Richardson spoke compassionately but nonetheless pressed each of the dozens of people in the courtroom to pay what they could or face arrest. 
 Ms. Gainous, 39, a single mother of four, said she had been sick and could not even make a $40 down payment on her $240 in fees.
 Suddenly, there was a startling moment of grace: another woman waiting in the courtroom, Latasha Penny, volunteered to pay the $40 for her. Ms. Gainous hugged her and sobbed. 
 When Ms. Penny's case came up, Judge Richardson reduced her monthly payment on $345 in fines to $30 from $45. ''You did a very nice thing earlier,'' Judge Richardson said with a smile.
 Days later, Ms. Gainous was still incredulous and said she would pay the $10 a month. ''It's still hard,'' she said. ''But I'm going to try to get that in, to keep from going to jail for being poor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judge James Shelfer in Collections Court in Tallahassee, Fla., where efforts to collect fees from defendants have increased.
 Valerie Gainous faced jail time this year over her failure to pay $240 in court costs and fines stemming from a 1996 case. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARON DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); JUDGES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



276 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: New York on Less: Train Variations On a Fixed Theme

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
On a No. 2 train heading to Brooklyn one evening last week, a disheveled man stepped onto the car and began a speech with that phrase familiar to all New York subway riders: ''Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen!'' 
 But instead of asking for money outright, he held up a white plastic bag and offered sandwiches to any hungry people on the train. If anyone wished to donate to his sandwich-distribution cause, he added, he'd happily take cash.
 No one asked for a sandwich. But as the man paced the car, a half-dozen women dug into their purses and handed him money. Genius. After all, who knows if he was actually soliciting money for the homeless -- or if he was homeless himself? 
 A recent report by the city's Department of Homeless Services estimated that there were 2,328 people living on the streets of New York on any given night. That is a decline of 50 percent since 2005, prompting one advocacy group to question the city's methodology. 
 The number of homeless people living on the street is an amorphous, constantly changing figure that is impossible to determine precisely (unlike the number in the city's shelter system, which is tracked on the department's Web site; on Wednesday it was 35,038). 
 Since the recession hit, have you seen more or fewer homeless people on the streets? Are they showing up in unusual places? Is the bad economy making you more or less likely to hand a dollar to a stranger on the street?
 Join a reader discussion of these questions on the blog as part of New York on Less, a new weekly feature about coping with the recession.
 JULIE BOSMAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRAINS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



277 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Watch on the Subterranean City

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
David Vale, 23, grew up in Lower Manhattan and became a New York City transit officer, policing subways, last summer after graduating No. 1 in his academy class. He majored in economics in college but decided against a career in finance because he didn't want an office job. Given the economy now, he's especially pleased to have taken the law enforcement route. 
 Why the police? My grandfather in Puerto Rico was a police officer, my uncle is an officer in the N.Y.P.D., I've got cousins who are federal agents -- stuff like that. I was intrigued by the counterterrorism work my cousin was doing, the way they investigated alleged groups. And I wanted to do something different every day. With this job, in one second, everything can change. 
 Childhood home: The Alfred E. Smith Houses (across from Police Headquarters). Growing up there was pretty bad. It's not East New York, but my parents wouldn't let me hang out in the street. Once I heard screaming so loud, I looked out of the window, and saw a guy pull out a pistol and shoot another guy and run away. I went to elementary school in Manhattan and high school on Staten Island and hung out with my friends there. 
 On living so close to Police Headquarters: I passed it all the time, and when I did, the one thing I felt was safe. I used to salute the police officers. 
 Hardest part of the academy: Driver's training. I had driven a few times. Once in Staten Island, in Puerto Rico a few times. I passed but I was nervous. I'm a city guy. I take the trains and ride my bike. 
 Did you become a transit officer to avoid driving? Ha! No. I wanted to be in the train system, to ride all over the place. It kind of has ties with counterterrorism. We inspect the stations and answer a lot of questions from tourists.
 Academy life: It was a huge wake-up call. It's a paramilitary organization. You get yelled at, but I knew it was going to happen, same as boot camp. They play games with you to try to make you a better person. You got to be clean shaven, well groomed, never let your shirt hang out. Very similar to Catholic school. 
 Number of push-ups you can do: Without stopping? Sixty.
 Favorite subway lines: The red line; I was familiar with it from my buddies growing up that lived on the Upper West Side. Also the green line, the 4, 5, 6. They're the best-kept trains, all new. 
 Drawback to working underground: For eight hours a day I have no cell service, so when I come out I've got 50 messages and texts.
 Chase any bad guys yet? One day someone on a train in Midtown was menacing someone with a firearm. I was with four other officers. We had the person isolated, and the train stopped and he threw the firearm onto the tracks, and it went off. It turned out good in the end. It's what I wanted, something different every day. One second can change everything. 
 Ever get hassled by subway riders? No. But I look pretty young, and once these ladies were sitting on the subway and one goes, ''You know you're getting old when police officers look like babies.'' It kind of lowered my confidence. Maybe I'll grow a mustache in a few years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRAINS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); DRIVER EDUCATION (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); TERRORISM (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



278 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13); 10:30 P.M. (49) BLACK MONEY In this ''Frontline'' report Lowell Bergman investigates multinational companies that have made secret payments to win lucrative business deals, and the small group of lawyers in the Department of Justice who are aggressively cracking down on the tactic, which the World Bank says generates nearly $1 trillion a year. According to one prosecutor currently handling more than 100 cases, the fines in foreign bribery judgments have brought the United States government nearly $1.5 billion in the last two years.
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY The Olympic swimmer Dara Torres talks about her new book, ''Age Is Just a Number''; the chef Curtis Stone and the fitness trainer Jillian Michaels are guests; Rascal Flatts performs. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY The show visits New Orleans, where the Storyville Stompers and Jesse McCartney perform. Reggie Bush of the New Orleans Saints is a guest. Faith Ford shows Kelly Ripa around town.
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Ms. DeGeneres chats up Clint Eastwood, the actor, and Jason Mesnick, the Bachelor.
 8 P.M. (13, 49) DOCTORS' DIARIES Since 1987 ''Nova'' has followed seven doctors as they struggled to balance their professional and personal lives -- from their first day at Harvard Medical School through internships and residencies, marriage and divorce. This two-part report, which will conclude next Tuesday, checks in one last time. 
 8:30 P.M. (HGTV) HGTV'S TOP 10 This new series presents 10 stylish rooms each week, the fabulousness of which is discussed by architects, real estate experts, magazine editors and designers. The rooms' actual designers weigh in at the end. 
 9 P.M. (TNT) TRUST ME Sarah (Monica Potter) butts heads with the director of a commercial shoot for a soap product, which rubs Mason (Eric McCormack) the wrong way. Tony (Griffin Dunne) co-opts a rival's account and designates Conner (Tom Cavanagh) his partner in crime. Now Mason is mad at him too. But nerves are soothed -- perhaps -- in the season finale, at 10, when Denise (Donna Murphy) offers Mason a big promotion after the Mink group wins an important account.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DEADLIEST CATCH: BEST OF SEASON 4 With this two-hour compilation of highlights, the series whets viewers' appetites for a fifth season on the rocky seas, starting next Tuesday. 
 9 P.M. (Fox) FRINGE Just as Olivia (Anna Torv) bonds with a mute child who lives under a building scheduled for demolition, a serial killer with a fondness for public displays of atrocity reappears. (So does the series, which has been on a two-month hiatus.)
 10 P.M. (13) MILKING THE RHINO ''Independent Lens'' visits the Maasai tribe of Kenya and the Himba tribe of Namibia, which are practicing a sustainable form of coexistence with native wildlife called ''community-based conservation.'' It turns local people -- including former poachers -- into stewards of the land. David E. Simpson directed. Above, a ranger with a black rhino.
 10 P.M. (FX) RESCUE ME Season 5 finds Tommy (Denis Leary) coping with his father's death -- and a new man (Michael J. Fox) in Janet's life. But why is Chief Feinberg (Jerry Adler) being so nice?
 10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT The vicious slaying of an artist turns out to be just the latest in a long line of murders by an untraceable serial killer.
 10 P.M. (Spike) DEADLIEST WARRIOR This new series examines the weapons, armor and even the diets of warring civilizations and uses computer-generated imaging to envision battles between two groups. The bloodbath begins with Apaches versus gladiators.
 10 P.M. (WE) WOMEN BEHIND BARS A second round of tales about women who have killed begins with the cases of Denise Holsinger, who with her boyfriend shot four people at the bar from which she'd been fired, and Vanessa Crawley, who helped her husband rob and murder a friend.
 11 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW JERSEY Franklin Lakes is the setting for the franchise's latest installment, which tags along as the self-proclaimed over-the-top suburbanites Teresa Giudice, Jacqueline Laurita, Danielle Staub and the sisters Caroline and Dina Manzo live large in Bergen County. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); ATHLETES (74%); MURDER (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BRIBERY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (56%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (52%); CLINT EASTWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



279 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: A Window Opens for Stock Issues

 BODY:
The window for companies to sell stock seems to be creaking open, and corporations that need capital should leap through it while they have the chance. 
 Confidence for such a move has been heightened by HSBC's recent $18 billion rights issue.
 When stock markets sank to their recent lows last month, this mammoth capital-raising looked like it was in trouble. But the recent equity rally helped the bank garner 97 percent support for the issue. The fear was that HSBC's large call for capital would drain capacity. But its success may actually persuade other issuers that equity markets can accommodate further share sales. 
 Meanwhile, two recent Chinese listings attracted strong interest, in spite of quirks. And even Rio Tinto, the Anglo-Australian miner, is apparently considering selling billions in new shares to investors. 
 Some recent new issues look a bit too opportunistic. Shares of Changyou, a Chinese video-game operator, rose 50 percent on their opening in New York last week. The company depends on a single game that it doesn't even own. 
 The retail portion of Silver Base, a Chinese cigarette and liquor distributor trading in Hong Kong, was 44 times oversubscribed. Yet its main supplier, which accounts for 95 percent of its revenues, failed to deliver last year, knocking 70 percent off profits.
 Indexes in New York, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo have all risen sharply from March lows. Rousing rhetoric from world leaders partly explains the fillip. Expectations of inflation caused by stimulus plans, against which stocks offer a long-term hedge, might be another. 
 But it's too soon to say that markets are enjoying a sustained rally. Evidence that earnings are close to bottoming is scarce. Even HSBC admits that it has little visibility for how the worsening economy will affect its business. 
 Issuers would be wise to seize the moment. By the same token, investors need to exercise caution.
 Convertible Bonds
 The convertible bond market has returned to life. After several quiet months, companies are rushing to sell the bonds, which can eventually be converted into common stock. Of the $3.3 billion sold in the first quarter, the vast majority occurred in March -- nearly a third in its final week, according to Dealogic. 
 This trend has room to run as long as balance sheets are stretched, stock prices keep swinging, and investors think share prices are low. 
 One reason for the sudden thaw in the market is that time has cured some old troubles. Before the crisis, perhaps 70 percent of demand came from practitioners of convertible arbitrage, who aimed to profit from the interplay of the debtlike and equitylike characteristics of the securities. 
 But then falling debt values, investor redemptions and the ban on short-selling stocks killed or wounded many of these specialist funds. Some dumped their holdings. Furthermore, as stocks cratered, convertibles lost their appeal for issuers. 
 Many small technology companies issued them in the boom years at low interest rates because investors had the kicker of conversion into stock they hoped would appreciate. But when it came time to refinance in a bear market, the cost was too high. 
 Today, volatility has made the stock option embedded in convertible securities valuable, giving issuers relatively low interest rates while giving investors upside potential. Attractive prices on new issues and rising equity markets have also greased demand. 
 Alcoa sold $575 million of convertibles on March 18 with a 5.25 percent coupon and a conversion price of 23 percent above the price at which it also sold new shares that same day. Alcoa's stock blew past the strike price within two days. 
 But the company also benefited as the coupon it is paying was a lot lower than the double-digit rate it would likely have had to pay on straight debt. There is still a danger that this bull market could skid to a halt. The recent optimism in stocks could evaporate. Or, less likely, credit could come flooding back, making old-fashioned debt more cost-effective. 
 But barring that, the convertibles rush is on. JOHN FOLEY and ROBERT CYRAN 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HSBC's $18 billion rights issue has helped confidence in stock issuance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (85%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (68%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (56%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (56%); RIO (NYSE) (56%); RIO (LSE) (56%); RIO (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (56%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (56%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (56%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



280 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C.'s Novel View Of Risk

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was set up 76 years ago with the important but simple job of insuring bank deposits.
 Now, because of what could politely be called mission creep, it's elbowing its way into the middle of the financial mess as an enabler of enormous leverage. 
 In the fine print of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's plan to lend as much as $1 trillion to private investors to help them buy toxic assets from our nation's banks, you'll find some details of how the F.D.I.C is trying to stabilize the system by adding more risk, not less, to the system. 
 It's going to be insuring 85 percent of the debt, provided by the Treasury, that private investors will use to subsidize their acquisitions of toxic assets. The program, extraordinary in its size and scope, is the equivalent of TARP 2.0. Only this time, Congress didn't get a chance to vote. 
 These loans, while controversial, were given a warm welcome by the market when they were first announced. And why not? The terms are hard to beat. They are, for example, ''nonrecourse,'' which means that if an investor loses money, he owes taxpayers nothing. It's the closest thing to risk-free investing -- with leverage! -- around.
 But, as we've learned the hard way these last couple of years, risk-free investing is an oxymoron. 
 So where did the risk go this time?
 To the F.D.I.C., and ultimately, to us taxpayers. A close reading of the F.D.I.C.'s statute suggests the agency is using a unique -- some might call it plain wrong -- reading of its own rule book to accomplish this high-wire act. 
 Somehow, in the name of solving the financial crisis, the F.D.I.C. has seemingly been given a blank check, with virtually no oversight by Congress. 
 ''Nobody is paying any attention to how they're pulling this off,'' said a prominent securities lawyer who has done work for the government. Not surprisingly, he, along with others I asked to review the program, declined to be quoted by name. ''They may not be breaking the letter of the law, but they're sure disregarding its spirit.''
 The F.D.I.C. is insuring the program, called the Public-Private Investment Program, by using a special provision in its charter that allows it to take extraordinary steps when an ''emergency determination by secretary of the Treasury'' is made to mitigate ''systemic risk.''
 Simple enough, but that language seems to bump up against another, perhaps more important provision. That provision clearly limits its ability to borrow, guarantee or take on obligations of more than $30 billion. 
 The exact legalistic language says that it ''may not issue or incur any obligation'' over that limit. (You can read a highlighted version of the F.D.I.C.'s charter at nytimes.com/dealbook.)
 So how is the F.D.I.C. planning to insure more than $1 trillion in new obligations? This is where things get complicated and questions are being raised.
 The plan hinges on the unique, and somewhat perverse, way the F.D.I.C. values the loans. It considers their value not as the total obligation, but as ''contingent liabilities'' -- meaning what it expects it could possibly lose. As the F.D.I.C's charter dictates: ''The corporation shall value any contingent liability at its expected cost to the corporation.'' 
 So how much does the F.D.I.C. think it might lose? 
 ''We project no losses,'' Sheila Bair, the chairwoman, told me in an interview. Zero? Really? ''Our accountants have signed off on no net losses,'' she said. (Well, that's one way to stay under the borrowing cap.)
 By this logic, though, the F.D.I.C. appears to have determined it can lend an unlimited amount of money to anyone so long as it believes, at least at the moment, that it won't lose any money.
 Here's the F.D.I.C.'s explanation: It says it plans to carefully vet every loan that gets made and it will receive fees and collateral in exchange. And then there's the safety net: If it loses money from insuring those investments, it will assess the financial industry a fee to pay the agency back. 
 But think about this for a moment: if the program doesn't work -- and let's hope it succeeds -- the F.D.I.C. would be forced to ''assess'' banks it is hoping to save, possibly bankrupting them in the process. After all, if the F.D.I.C. starts losing money, it will probably be because the broader economic environment is deteriorating further. So those fees will a new burden at a time when key financial players can least afford them.
 Ms. Bair said that she can not imagine the F.D.I.C. losing money on the scale I suggested in my doomsday scenario. She said that before announcing the program, the F.D.I.C.'s lawyers determined that the statute allowed it to guarantee loans by valuing them as contigent liabilities. ''That's how we've interpreted it,'' she said, adding that the determination was made back in October when the F.D.I.C. first introduced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which is also backed by the F.D.I.C. 
 She also defended her agency saying that the F.D.I.C. has not experienced mission creep: the various programs that it is participating in are meant to insure the stability of the financial system, which she says was always the goal of the agency. She also pointed out that under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, so far, the agency hasn't lost a dollar -- and more important, she said, the program has worked to stabilize the banking system.
 All true, but that has come as the burden on the F.D.I.C. has increased as it pays out more to cover losses of failed banks. 
 In a letter to the financial industry last month seeking an assessment that could be as much as $27 billion, Ms. Bair wrote, ''Without these assessments, the deposit insurance fund could become insolvent this year.'' Ms. Bair seems to recognize that the borrowing limit of $30 billion makes her job difficult. And two officials with a lot of sway in this area have sought to raise the F.D.I.C.'s borrowing limit (by $100 billion, according to a bill introduced by Representative Barney Frank, and by $500 billion, in a bill introduced by Senator Christopher Dodd). 
 But then again, who needs a borrowing limit when the potential liabilities from the new program seem to be zero?
 If the P.P.I.P. program works -- and again, it's in everybody's interest to cheer it on -- it will be a boon for the economy and participating investors, who will likely make off like bandits.
 If the program fails, however, there will be heavy losses on us. In other words, taxpayers could be the ones stuck with billions of dollars in ''contingent liabilities.'' 
 And these days, whenever anybody talks about risk-free investing, it's not hard to hear the famous line uttered by Joseph J. Cassano of A.I.G. in 2007: ''It is hard for us, without being flippant, to even see a scenario within any kind of realm of reason that would see us losing one dollar in any of those transactions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., is estimating zero risk for insuring the Private-Public Investment Program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (91%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (76%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (96%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (96%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



281 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'RESCUE ME'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Specters and Snobs Alert: Sound the Alarm

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
It has never seemed entirely a coincidence that in the years since 9/11 the dead have maintained a heightened presence on dramatic television, haunting and comforting and emboldening the living as ghosts and dreams and symbols of inextinguishable memory. 
 On a series as absurd as ''Ghost Whisperer'' or as chilling as ''Medium'' the departed communicate from the beyond to help in righting the wrongs of the breathing and malfeasant. And on shows as whimsical as ''Monk'' or as formulaic as ''The Mentalist'' the detectives in charge are motivated by a ceaseless sense of mourning. Each has endured the murder of his wife, and both shows are in part testament to the improbability of closure in the face of profound tragedy. 
What is implied elsewhere is confronted aggressively in the terrifically restive FX drama ''Rescue Me,'' which begins its fifth season on Tuesday with Tommy Gavin (played by Denis Leary, the show's co-creator) still being chased by his apparitions and demons and no closer to approaching serenity. As the most frantic and emotionally undone member of the crew of 62 Truck, at a New York City firehouse, Tommy was hardly finished working through his guilt and grief over his cousin's death during the 9/11 rescue mission when he was forced to deal with the loss of his son, killed by a drunk driver. At the end of last season Tommy's unloving father died as well, and it isn't too long before he is turning up in Tommy's vodka-induced visions, Tommy's hold on sobriety as shaky as a timid child's on horseback.
 The specter of 9/11 -- never completely submerged but sometimes obscured by the show's elements of comic soap opera -- is in the foreground again, as another crew member begins to espouse the theory that the attacks were orchestrated by neoconservative nut cases bent on American global domination. Franco (Daniel Sunjata) is doing some of his espousing at protest rallies but largely mouthing off to an infuriatingly sanctimonious French journalist, who is applying her less-than-realpolitik worldview to producing a coffee table book about the attacks. Perched in the firehouse with her steno pad and wide-leg trousers and Euro sensuality, she rampages right through the conflict-of-interest chapters of journalism ethics manuals and produces a one-woman argument for bringing back the term ''freedom fries.''
 ''Rescue Me'' seems to come by its reverse class condescension so honestly that it hardly even seems to matter when it begins to feel too broad. Mocking the urbane, the materialistic, the aspiring, the show last season had Tommy breaking the expensive crystal of an on-again, off-again girlfriend, a 9/11 widow who had cashed in and claimed she couldn't possibly move into a Manhattan apartment with the junk she had in Bay Ridge. 
 Loving its own kind, the show reserves its harshest judgments for the entitled, the uptown moneymakers inspiring our collective rage and, here, caricatures that function on a ''Trading Places'' level of genius. Unbeknownst to Tommy, his ex-wife, Janet (Andrea Roth), has sent their youngest daughter to boarding school in Connecticut, where she has told friends that her father is a hedge fund manager and her mother is a fashion designer and that they all divide their time between a loft in SoHo and a house in Montauk. Eventually visiting her for a school play, the couple discover that she is speaking and carrying herself as if she were a character out of J .P. Marquand and learns that the other parents, fat hags and male submissives in pastels, don't really consider Queens and the Bronx part of New York City. One mother eyes Janet's dress and offers that her cleaning lady has the same one.
 In the show's equalizing calculus hot sex is meant to be the great revenge of the working class, the stuck-up presumably having no idea how to get it on. Forced to share a room in a stifling bed and breakfast during their Connecticut stay, Tommy and Janet end up leaving no inch of their quarters without trespass, breaking a few drawers and a bathroom door during a reunion that could inspire an entire Penthouse letters page. Back home Janet has been having her own good time with an unemployed guy in a wheelchair, played with an antic and scruffy lunacy by Michael J. Fox, who provides only further reason not to let the current season pass by.
 RESCUE ME
 FX, Tuesday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific time; 9, Central time.
 Created by Peter Tolan and Denis Leary; written by Mr. Leary, Mr. Tolan and Evan Reilly; Mr. Leary, Mr. Tolan and Jim Serpico, executive producers; Kerry Orent, Tom Sellitti, Leslie Tolan and Mr. Reilly, co-executive producers; Dauri Chase and Paul Anderson, co-producers. Produced by Apostle, DreamWorks Television and the Cloudland Company in association with Sony Pictures Television.
 WITH: Denis Leary (Tommy Gavin), Michael Lombardi (Mike Siletti), Steven Pasquale (Sean Garrity), Andrea Roth (Janet Gavin), John Scurti (Lt. Kenny Shea), Daniel Sunjata (Franco Rivera), Callie Thorne (Sheila Keefe), Adam Ferrara (Chief Needles Nelson) , Larenz Tate (Black Shawn), Natalie Distler (Colleen Gavin), Olivia Crochiccia (Katy Gavin) and Michael J. Fox (Dwight). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rescue Me with Denis Leary, right, and Michael J. Fox, Tuesday on FX.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/FX)(C1)
 Michael J. Fox in the fifth season of ''Rescue Me,'' which starts on Tuesday on FX.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/FX)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%); WRITERS (65%); ETHICS (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

TITLE: Rescue Me (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



282 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Lords of Avarice vs. Sultans of Dumb?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Greed and Stupidity'' (column, April 3):
 David Brooks argues: ''We didn't get into this crisis because inbred oligarchs grabbed power. We got into it because arrogant traders around the world were playing a high-stakes game they didn't understand.'' 
 Perhaps he is technically right. But this doesn't mean that the rising culture of easy money and unchecked greed didn't dull our wits and make all of us -- from traders to homeowners -- poorer decision-makers. 
 There's no dichotomy here. Surely greed and stupidity went hand in hand in making the economic mess we're in now.
 Edward Cahill Weston, Conn., April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks should take his analysis one step further. 
 As he says, traders indeed were playing a game they didn't understand. The next step of the analysis, of course, is that they were able to play the game exactly because the oligarchs (that is, the financial titans) had grabbed power. 
 Without that power, they would have had to face the consequences of their game much sooner, with much smaller consequences for the rest of us.
 The essential problem is being allowed to make short-term profits from long-term risks. As long as that is the reward structure, the problem will remain, and the solution, as any behaviorist will tell you, is to change the reward structure.
 Marshal Mandelkern New Haven, April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks identifies two ''general narratives'' that have emerged to explain the financial disaster wrought by, and afflicting, the nation's banks and financial sector. One is Wall Street greed and power run amok; the other is stupidity in the face of transactions that became too complicated even for the experts to understand. 
 Mr. Brooks argues that we need to agree on a narrative. Unfortunately, he lets the ''inbred oligarchs'' off the hook, dismissing the idea that they ''grabbed power.'' Apparently he finds more comfort in the notion that the ''arrogant traders around the world were playing a high-stakes game they didn't understand.''
 But the headline on his column is ''Greed and Stupidity'' -- note the ''and.'' The current crisis is surely a result of a combination of both. It would be a sorry thing indeed if we were to prefer widespread incompetence over deliberate greed.
 Linda Charnes Bloomington, Ind., April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 There's a vital starting point missing from David Brooks's analysis of whether the financial crisis was caused more by greed or by ignorance.
 In general, self-interest does a fairly good job of protecting businesses from self-destructive behavior. But the pivot point of the current economic crisis is that self-interest was removed from the mortgage system. When financial institutions agreed to buy all the mortgages bundled by a mortgage issuer, the issuers lost their self-interest in granting only good mortgages. 
 At the same time, the institutions that bought the bundled mortgages lost their self-interest in good mortgages, because they could sell the bundles to investors who didn't have a clue. 
 Richard Evans Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks underestimates the relationship between greed and stupidity when he says that they ''overlap'' as causes of our current mess. The two are inextricable. 
 Greed breeds stupidity, as the avaricious are tempted into wrongheaded decisions, and stupidity breeds greed, as the ignorant are convinced they can get something for nothing.
 If only temperance and intelligence ruled our nation's financial and government institutions. Alas, it has never been so.
 Robert J. Inlow Charlottesville, Va., April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks rightly acknowledges that ''greed'' and ''stupidity'' explanations for what caused the financial bubble are not mutually exclusive. 
 His column brings to mind the term ''thought leader,'' which emerged out of financial circles into widespread use during the recent boom years. 
 Its vaguely Orwellian overtones aside, ''thought leader'' always reminded me of the ''Think System'' promoted by Professor Harold Hill in Meredith Willson's 1957 musical, ''The Music Man.'' 
 Through spreading his mysterious Think System among the good (if simple) citizens of River City, Professor Hill, a traveling salesman, stoked their frenzied purchase of band uniforms and musical instruments. This boom came despite the weakness of the underlying fundamentals (that is, his claim to be forming a boys' band notwithstanding, he knew nothing about music). 
 Thought leaders may, like Professor Hill, be fundamentally motivated by greed. What binds the fates of thought leaders and their followers is wishful thinking.
 John Slocum Oak Park, Ill., April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks examines the ''greed'' and ''stupidity'' arguments in the current meltdown and concludes that stupidity was the more likely problem.
 The trouble is, among all those ideas he mentions whipping around ''light speed'' were some that cautioned, well, caution in our financial pursuits.
 So why did so many allegedly smart people ignore the cautions?
 The allure of easy money -- or greed -- maybe?
 Victoria Preuss West Palm Beach, Fla., April 3, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID McLIMANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) INDIANA, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



283 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Road Deaths Nationwide Fell Sharply In 2008

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Highway fatalities dropped by 9 percent nationally from 2007 to 2008, a federal agency found, falling to their lowest level in nearly 50 years.
 New England saw the nation's steepest drop in such deaths, even as three of its states, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island, reported some of the lowest rates of seat belt use. 
 Preliminary data from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration showed a decline in deaths of 14 percent in New England. The smallest drop in the nation, 1 percent, was in the region comprising Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. 
 The spike in gasoline costs last year probably contributed to the overall decline, officials said, because people ended up driving less. The number of vehicle miles traveled dropped by about 3.6 percent nationally, the safety agency found, after climbing for several decades.
 But officials in several New England states also credited stepped-up safety programs, especially for young drivers, and enforcement of laws against drunken driving.
 Lauren Stewart, director of the Maine Bureau of Highway Safety, said the drop in her state could also be due to a stricter seatbelt law that went into effect in September 2007. Maine had 129 traffic deaths last year, down from 138 in 2007.
 But Ms. Stewart also said that because most New England states had relatively few deaths to begin with, a small drop in raw numbers could translate into a big percentage change. 
 ''I'm not sure we've done anything above and beyond some of the other states,'' she said.
 Massachusetts had 346 traffic deaths in 2008, according to preliminary state data, down from 434 in 2007. But while celebrating the drop, state officials found themselves trying to explain a less positive statistic: Massachusetts had the lowest rate of seat belt use in the country last year, 66.8 percent, compared with a national average of 83 percent. Sheila Burgess, director of highway safety in the state's Executive Office of Public Safety, said it was challenging to educate the public on the importance of seat belt use in a densely populated state with several news media markets. 
 Nonetheless, Ms. Burgess said, Massachusetts will spend more on education and enforcement campaigns this year. As in about half the states, motorists here can be cited for not wearing a seat belt only if they are pulled over for another offense.
 ''I really can't say why we're the absolute lowest,'' Ms. Burgess said. 
 New Hampshire, which was found to have the nation's third-lowest rate of seat belt use last year, has no seat belt law for adults but is considering whether to adopt one. The state's legislature rejected a similar bill in 2007.
 Rhode Island's rate of seat belt use, 72 percent, was also relatively low, and the state had the sharpest drop in the number of people using seat belts, 7 percent. But the three other New England states, Connecticut, Maine and Vermont, all had rates above 80 percent, as did New Jersey and New York. 
 Michigan had the highest percentage of motorists wearing seat belts, 97.2 percent, according to the federal safety agency. 
 Regardless of whether they wear seat belts, people in densely populated parts of New England appear to be driving less even now that gas prices have fallen. Jeff Larson, the general manager of SmartRoute Systems, a traffic-monitoring service for the Boston metropolitan area, said he had noticed a significant drop in congestion on the region's roads over the 14 months. 
 ''When the gas prices skyrocketed,'' said Mr. Larsen, who also monitors traffic in southern New Hampshire and northern Rhode Island, ''people really changed their patterns'' and started taking public transportation instead of driving.
 ''The prices came down, but the economy keeps hitting people,'' he said, ''so it looks like they're still trying to save money this way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (76%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); GASOLINE (55%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



284 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Man Accused in the Killings of 3 Officers in Pittsburgh Voiced Racist Views Online

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
The man charged with killing three police officers here on Saturday was a contributor to racist Web sites, writing about his hatred of race-mixing, the economic collapse, Zionist conspiracies and his fondness for his ''AK'' rifle. 
 The police said the three officers were killed, and a fourth wounded, after they responded to a domestic disturbance call early Saturday at the home of Richard A. Poplawski, 22. The police said Mr. Poplawski shot the officers with his AK-47 rifle.
 He sometimes wrote about what he saw as a Zionist conspiracy, as in a March 13 post: ''One can read the list of significant persons in government and in major corporations and see who is pulling the strings. One can observe the policies and final products and should walk away with little doubt there is Zionist occupation and -- after some further research & critical thinking -- will discover their insidious intentions.''
 After the Pittsburgh Steelers won the Super Bowl, Mr. Poplawski dismissed football as nothing but ''negroball.'' Then, instead of celebrating the victory, he went out and did reconnaissance on how the police tried to control the crowds and posted his findings.
 ''Cumulatively, what these postings reveal is a lot more about his mindset,'' said Mark Pitcavage, director of investigative research for the Anti-Defamation League, who found the postings after sorting through the shifting online names Mr. Poplawski used. ''They show a growing anti-government and anti-police hostility.''
 Linking Mr. Poplawski to the postings, which used different screen names, was a matter of matching them to some aspects of his life that he wrote about, including his MySpace page.
 The postings support what Mr. Poplawski's friends have told reporters: that he was worried about the election of President Obama and that he had said he would defend himself if anyone ever tried to take his guns. 
 The postings were made on Stormfront, a white supremacist chat site, and Infowars, a Web site affiliated with a radio talk show host, Alex Jones, beginning in late 2007 and continuing until two days before the shootings. 
 Stormfront's Web site indicates that Mr. Poplawski last visited the site at 3:32 a.m. Saturday, just hours before the confrontation with the police.
 Neighbors said Mr. Poplawski had been out drinking till early Saturday. According to the criminal affidavit, his mother, who called 911 at 7:03 a.m., had woken him up because his dog had urinated on the floor. That started their confrontation and led to a nearly four-hour police standoff.
 Most revealing to Mr. Pitcavage is that sometime in the last month, Mr. Poplawski changed his logon name from ''Rich P'' to ''Braced for Fate.''
 ''I mean, this is talking about some inevitable confrontation,'' Mr. Pitcavage said, ''and possibly a fatal confrontation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard A. Poplawski warned of a Zionist conspiracy on white supremacist sites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSPIRACY (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); WEB SITES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); FIREARMS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (55%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



285 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Russian Auto Bailout Protects Jobs (Efficiency Not So Much)

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: TOLYATTI, Russia 

 BODY:
If there is a country that truly needs a car czar, it is Russia, home of the czars -- and Lada.
 The factory here has been stamping out the same version of the Lada, the typical boxy people's car of the former Eastern Bloc, for four decades. 
 Known as Avtovaz for short, it is one of the least efficient automobile factories anywhere in the world -- each worker produces, on average, eight cars a year, compared with 36 cars a year at General Motors' assembly line in Bowling Green, Ky., for example. 
 Yet the government is giving Avtovaz (pronounced aft-OV-az) billions of dollars in aid, no strings attached. No chief executive firings. No renegotiation of workers' contracts. No demands to turn out better-quality cars, much less fuel-efficient hybrid cars. (The first car with an airbag was introduced here in 2005.)
 But the auto bailout, Russian style, is intended more to ensure peace in the streets than restructure a business, much to the lament of some critics who think tough love might be better.
 ''The key issue is too much government protection,'' Yegor T. Gaidar, a former prime minister, said. ''The factory will create as many problems for the Russian economy as General Motors for the States.''
 Moscow's concerns extend far beyond automobiles. As mounting economic anxiety prompts worker protests from China to Ukraine to the Czech Republic, politicians and economists say the Kremlin is calculating that it can keep the peace by bailing out Russian workers.
 The country's manufacturing base, wobbly in the best of times, is contracting quickly in the global downturn. Layoffs are spreading. Manufacturing declined by 13 percent in February alone. And industrial discontent is stirring in the most hardscrabble Russian factory towns. 
 On March 11, 16 Russian steelworkers announced a hunger strike to protest wage cuts at a Ural Mountain mill. (The same week Severstal, one of Russia's largest steel makers, announced it would lay off 9,000 to 9,500 workers.)
 Here in Tolyatti, when a G.M. joint venture laid off 400 people in December, riot officers were called in to disperse an angry crowd that had gathered in the plant parking lot.
 It is a trend with a history here; a shrinking manufacturing base in the late Soviet period contributed to social unrest. To keep that from happening now, government officials promised at a meeting here last week to give additional aid to the factory: $730 million in an interest-free loan for one year, $230 million in loans from state banks at a favorable rate, and a commitment by state-owned banks to help Avtovaz raise an additional $2.6 billion from banks.
 ''Avtovaz, along with producing cars, is fulfilling a social role. It is employing the population. Either fortunately or unfortunately, the state must support Avtovaz,'' Vladimir R. Yagutyan, a former deputy mayor of Tolyatti, said in an interview. ''The stability of the town depends on it.''
 Apart from the company's role as an employer, economists see little point in propping up such an aging giant. 
 The factory, a monument to Soviet gigantism in industrial design, is a panoramic sprawl of pipes and smokestacks on a bank of the Volga River, 460 miles southeast of Moscow. It employs 104,000 assembly line workers, many of whom still toil with hand-held wrenches.
 All told, the Avtovaz factory and its suppliers support two million jobs, according to a statement by the factory's management, out of a total Russian work force of about 75 million. Many of those jobs are in small and medium-size towns not far from Moscow.
 The collapse of the car market came later in Russia than in the United States, but it could be more severe. Russia had been the fastest growing major car market in the world, with 35 percent growth in 2007. The country was projected to surpass Germany as Europe's largest automotive market in 2009; that is no longer the case. 
 Now car sales are projected to fall 25 to 50 percent, or 1.6 million to 2.3 million vehicles, according to a report by the Moscow office of PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 Last fall, the Russian government deftly shifted the economic hardship away from this politically fragile car industry belt in central Russia. It imposed a tariff on imported cars. The move set off protests and a police crackdown -- but in Vladivostok, a major center for importing and servicing secondhand Japanese cars, more than 5,000 miles from Moscow. 
 Now, the government is backing a no-layoff policy at Avtovaz, in spite of tumbling demand for its products. The government is also subsidizing auto loans to stimulate demand. The factory has requested state loan guarantees, which were approved last week. 
 Even employees forced to take furloughs seemed unconcerned about being laid off. ''The factory is our wet nurse,'' Denis N. Makarov, a clerk in the factory office, said. ''We have nothing else. If it stops, the whole town will be out on the streets. We all understand this.''
 Still, Timofey G. Bushuyev, 59, a sheet metal worker, said he understood the factory's troubles last year when he bought a new Lada only to discover the horn and heater did not work and the belts squeaked. 
 In a possible silver lining for Avtovaz, more expensive foreign brands have fared worse. G.M., Hyundai and Toyota, all companies with assembly lines in Russia, were among the biggest losers. 
 Avtovaz's management, in a written response to questions, hailed the company's ''indisputable advantages'' in a downturn owing to its inexpensive product line. The car now marketed as the Klassika -- a design for the squared-off Fiat 124 that the company bought in 1974 -- sells for $4,160. 
 ''In crises Avtovaz always had a product people wanted to buy,'' the company said. ''From the onset of the crisis Avtovaz has not laid anybody off, and does not plan to do so.'' Instead, the factory has gone to a four-day week, with two six-hour shifts. Workers are offered voluntary furloughs at two-thirds pay. 
 But even the unions, used to believing the worst of management, say layoffs are inconceivable here. 
 ''It would become a political issue for this city and this country,'' Andrei A. Lyapin, regional coordinator of the Interregional Trade Union of Automotive Workers, said in an interview. ''They will print enough money to pay these people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL, 1997) (pg.A1)
 In 2005, models presented a Lada Kalina at a Moscow auto show. Russia once had the world's fastest-growing major auto market, but sales are projected to fall up to 50 percent this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS SINYAKOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); STRIKES (76%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); RIOTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%)

COMPANY: AVTOVAZ OAO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); OAO SEVERSTAL (52%)

TICKER: AVAZ (RTS) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%); SVST (LSE) (52%); CHMF (RTS) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (52%); SIC2514 METAL HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (77%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



286 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Parsing the G-20's $1.1 Trillion Pledge -- So Far, Only on Paper

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It is an extraordinary number for extraordinary times: $1.1 trillion in aid, to be pumped into the world's financial bloodstream. For the leaders gathered in London last week, it was tangible evidence that their economic summit meeting had yielded impressive results.
 Yet on closer inspection, the $1 trillion figure looks as wishful as the soaring words in the communique issued by the Group of 20. Some of the money has yet to be pledged, some is double-counted and some would be counted in a ''synthetic currency'' that is not actually real money. 
 Given that the global economic recession is at least partly a crisis of confidence, experts said there was value in announcing a blockbuster sum -- even a notional one. Investors were buoyed, and the news media printed and broadcast the headline number without stopping to parse it.
 But some experts warn that the squishy mathematics could come back to haunt the leaders, particularly if the economy does not recover or if some of the major pledges do not come through.
 ''The lack of concreteness in the numbers is troubling, because further down the line, they're going to have to come to grips with the details,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund who now teaches at Cornell University.
 About $500 billion of the $1 trillion represents increased direct financing for the International Monetary Fund. But, by Mr. Prasad's count, less than half of that has so far been committed by Japan, the European Union, Canada and Norway. China is expected to kick in $40 billion, which it may do by buying bonds issued by the fund.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has committed the United States to $100 billion. But that must be authorized by Congress, which, administration officials acknowledge, is skeptical of foreign aid and may be doubly so this time, given its heavy spending on domestic stimulus.
 Even counting the United States, Mr. Prasad said that left a shortfall of $145 billion of the $500 billion in donations. Among potential donors are Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states and emerging markets like India. Their willingness to pay, however, will hinge on getting a bigger voice in the fund's affairs.
 To ''kick start'' flagging world trade, in the words of Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, the leaders agreed to commit $250 billion in trade credit over two years, on top of $100 billion in loans from multilateral development banks, which lend to poorer countries.
 ''Together,'' Mr. Brown said, ''these actions give us confidence that the global economy can return to trend growth even faster than the International Monetary Fund is now predicting.''
 But of that $250 billion, experts said, only a quarter represents fresh cash: trade financing is rolled over every six months as exporters get paid for their goods and repay the agencies that lent them the money. The agencies then lend out the same money again. There is also some double-counting between the $250 billion and the $100 billion from the development banks.
 In perhaps the most novel move, the Group of 20 authorized the monetary fund to issue $250 billion in Special Drawing Rights, known as S.D.R.'s -- a ''virtual currency'' whose value is set by a basket of real currencies like the dollar, euro and British pound. The I.M.F. will issue the S.D.R.'s to all 185 of its members, and they in turn can lend them out to poor countries.
 Special Drawing Rights are not cash but a form of credit, against which a country can borrow. The Obama administration, which conceived the idea and sold it to the Group of 20, figures it would create between $15 billion and $20 billion in additional credit for the poorest countries.
 But there is a caveat here as well. For the program's benefits to be felt globally, the United States and Europe will need to lend out their Special Drawing Rights. In the United States, that will require Congressional approval. 
 ''As a way to make I.M.F.-style lending available to countries not yet in a deep crisis, this could be very powerful,'' said Simon Johnson, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 ''But if the Europeans sit on their cash, it will be a bust,'' he added. ''If Congress doesn't go for it, that's terrible as well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); RECESSION (75%); TRENDS (74%); BOND ISSUES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GULF STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



287 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Reorganization at City's Zoos Includes Buyouts and Layoffs

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Faced with a sharp drop in its endowment and a $15 million deficit, the Wildlife Conservation Society announced on Monday that more than 100 of its 1,200 employees had accepted buyouts and that dozens more would be laid off. 
 The society, which operates the Bronx, Central Park, Prospect Park and Queens Zoos and the New York Aquarium, also announced what it called a vast overhaul intended to make it ''meaner, leaner and greener.''
 The society, with an annual budget of around $200 million, has faced increasing pressure because it relies heavily on grants and gifts. John F. Calvelli, executive vice president for public affairs at the society, said the organization's endowment had fallen about 30 percent from its peak of around $480 million.
 In January, the society announced that it would need to make cuts of $15 million, including $10 million from staff reductions. More than 100 employees have since agreed to retire or take buyouts, but that only covers about $6 million of the $10 million needed, Mr. Calvelli said. While the precise number of layoffs has not been determined, it will likely affect dozens of workers.
 ''Now, we have begun the involuntary reductions to meet the balance of our obligation to assure the long-term financial health of W.C.S.,'' the society said in a statement. 
 In a news release, the society focused not on the staff cuts but on what it called a broad reorganization that would include a sharper focus on conservation goals, a master plan for the four zoos and aquarium, a refocusing of its education division and an overhaul of its Web site. 
 ''We're looking at doing more with less,'' Mr. Calvelli said in a phone interview. ''How can we be leaner but at the same time fulfill our mission and grow? So these are structural changes that we've made so we can look over the next three to five years and be responsible fiscally. We hope the economy will turn around in the next 6 to 12 months, but what if it doesn't?'' 
 He added: ''We've been thinking about the transformation process for the last several years. Everything came into sharper focus over the last six months.'' 
 The society has been led since 2001 by Steven E. Sanderson, its president and chief executive, who is overseeing the reorganization. As part of the overhaul, the society said it would focus on four central conservation goals: climate change, wildlife health, natural resource management and conservation livelihoods. 
 Despite the grim news, the society has at times taken a light-hearted approach to its fiscal woes. In January, as part of a successful effort to stave off budget cuts threatened by Albany, the society unveiled some humorous videos that described the prehensile-tailed porcupine as ''the next victim of the recession.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



288 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: After Recession, Recovery Will Take Years

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
As the recession grinds on, more and more of the nation's means of production -- its workers, its factories, its retail outlets, its freight lines, its bank lending, even its new inventions -- are being mothballed.
 This idled capacity, like baseball players after a winter off, takes time to bring back into robust use. So even if the recession miraculously ended tomorrow, economists estimate that at least three years would pass before full employment returned and output rose enough for the economy to operate at full throttle. 
 While stock market investors have embraced tentative signs of improvement in the mortgage market and elsewhere, even a sharp pickup in demand for products and services will take considerable time to play out. 
 The mathematics are daunting. The shortfall is running at more than $1 trillion in annual sales and other transactions. Only once since the Great Depression has there been such a severe loss of output -- in the 1981-82 recession -- and after that downturn, it was seven years before the economy regained the lost production. 
 Recovery from the current recession could be similarly sluggish. New occupants have to be found for empty stores. Factory owners who are hesitant to ramp up production will wait until they are sure of demand. Hiring the right people for an operation will take time. And imports, entering the country in ever greater quantities, will slow any expansion by siphoning sales from domestic producers. 
 Then there is the growth rate itself. In the six years of recovery from the 2001 recession to the current one, the economy grew at an average annual rate of only 2.5 percent, adjusted for inflation. If that growth rate were to resume, just $350 billion a year would be added back, requiring three years to restore the $1 trillion in lost capacity. But getting the economy to grow at all after so much output has been lost, and so many jobs, is no easy task. 
 ''Excess capacity, once entrenched, perpetuates itself, and that is what is happening now,'' said James Crotty, an economist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. ''Companies cannot hire workers to make more goods and provide more services until their sales go up. But people can't buy goods and services until they are hired -- so the excess capacity just sits there.''
 It shows up everywhere. Lawyers are booking fewer hours. Retail space goes begging. Tourism is down. So is cellphone use, airline bookings, freight traffic and household borrowing, which is less than half what it was on the eve of the recession, the Federal Reserve reports. 
 With orders dwindling, manufacturers are using less than 68 percent of the nation's factory capacity, the lowest level since records were first kept in 1948. And while entrepreneurs are as inventive as ever, they may not be able to get venture capitalists to bankroll their creations.
 ''We and others are funding start-ups as slowly as possible, or not at all,'' said Howard Anderson, a founding partner of Battery Ventures in Waltham, Mass., and a senior lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 He cites as an example a hand-held device, similar in shape to an iPod, that restaurant diners would use to order food and drink electronically. Waiters would bring the orders, but not take them. 
 ''The prototype just sits there,'' Mr. Anderson said, ''and maybe the inventors will get funding to produce and market their device -- and maybe their company never gets born.'' 
 If there is an upside, it is the absence of inflationary pressure. With so much excess capacity rattling around, shortages do not develop that would push up prices. Indeed, interest rates are kept low to encourage more borrowing and spending. Neither is happening. Instead, demand continues to shrink and idle capacity to build up. 
 The Obama administration, like the Roosevelt administration 75 years ago, is trying to break this logjam through government spending, using it in effect as a substitute for consumers who are jobless or short of credit. The spending is also a substitute for companies that hesitate to extend themselves or see no profit in doing so. 
 But the president's solution, the recently enacted stimulus package, spreads $787 billion over two years. So even if every dollar of spending restored a dollar of output, President Obama would be nearing the end of his first term before output approached the level achieved just before the start of the recession in December 2007.
 Or so says Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University who specializes in tracking the gap between actual output and potential output, a k a full capacity. The Roosevelt economy also languished well below full capacity, Mr. Gordon said, until the summer of 1940, when France fell to Hitler's armies. 
 From then until the attack on Pearl Harbor, 18 months later, a galvanized administration more than doubled federal outlays -- soon accounting for $1 of every $4 spent in the country -- and the United States entered the war with its economy operating almost at full capacity.
 (Government currently accounts for $1 of every $5 spent, barely more than in 2007, and most of that spending is at the state and local levels, the opposite of 1940-41, when federal outlays shot up.) 
 ''What you had was a revolution in the labor force,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''Women poured into jobs in droves, often replacing men, and every factory went to three shifts.''
 By V-J Day in 1945, the economy, propelled by war spending, was operating beyond what the experts thought of as full capacity, demonstrating the ''squishiness'' of the concept, as Mr. Gordon put it. Just the swing from one to three shifts alters capacity, he said, and so does the more intensive use of floor space. 
 Capacity stretched again in the 1950s and '60s, to feed demand created by the wars in Korea and Vietnam, and then again in the late 1990s, propelled by the dot-com boom. And there were downdrafts as recessions sapped demand, but none as punishing as the current one.
 Sixteen months into this recession, the economy is operating at 7 percent below its potential capacity, the Congressional Budget Office reported last month. If that were to continue, today's $14 trillion economy would be a $13 trillion economy by this time next year.
 Labor is contributing hugely to the shortfall. More than 24 million men and women, or 15.6 percent of the labor force, are either hunting for work or working fewer hours than they would like to work, or are too discouraged to seek work, although they would take jobs if offered them, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. 
 The ranks of this ''underutilized'' group -- the bureau's label -- are up by 10 million since early last year. Generating work for so many people would take several years, even if the nation's employers stopped shedding more than 600,000 jobs a month, as they have done since December, and began hiring robustly. 
 ''We have rarely been in this deep a hole,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist for IHS Global Insight. 
 His concern is that nearly every nation -- not just the United States -- is suffering from idle capacity as the recession that started in America grips Europe and Asia. Struggling for sales in a marketplace swamped with goods and services, companies are cutting prices and shutting down operations, trying to keep supply in line with dwindling demand. 
 The cutback is particularly severe in the auto industry, which had the capacity, going into the recession, to make nearly twice as many cars in the United States as are now being sold here. Indeed, some of the factories being closed are unlikely to ever reopen.
 ''Eventually, once this recession is over, we will fill up capacity,'' Mr. Gault said. ''Not only that, capacity itself will inevitably expand as the labor force grows and innovation kicks in. But the new capacity won't be as great as it would have been if we had not gone through this terrible experience.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A line outside a job fair in Miami in March. Generating work for the millions that have lost their jobs since the recession began will take several years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS)
The slowdown has hurt retailing and manufacturing. Left, the Circuit City chain closed its doors this year
a Worthington Cylinder factory in Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA VON AHN/REUTERS
JAY LaPRETE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B5) CHARTS: SITTING IDLE: Since the Great Depression, the nation's industrial production capacity has dipped this low only once before, in the recession during the early 1980s. (Sources: Robert J. Gordon, Northwestern University
 Congressional Budget Office) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); BASEBALL (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



289 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
An interactive feature on the 60th anniversary of the Broadway opening of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ''South Pacific,'' narrated by members of the original and current Broadway revival casts. Also, audio clips of Richard Rodgers playing several numbers from the show. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 Opinion
 VIDEO: THE LAST JEW
 Zablon Simantov, a Jewish resident of Kabul, explains in a video why he remains despite his increasing solitude. 
 nytimes.com/opinion
 Moral of the Story
 Madonna and Child
 In his new blog, Randy Cohen considers a Malawi court's rejection of Madonna's application to adopt a 3-year-old girl.
 nytimes.com/ethicist
 SLIDESHOW: USING THE HUDSON
 To Cool the Trade Center
 A critical lifeline to the new World Trade Center from the very old Hudson River -- four water pipes large enough for workers to crawl through -- is nearing completion along West Street. A slide show and video provide a window into the pipes, which will eventually cool and dehumidify the air in public spaces. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Reader Reactions
 Since the recession hit, have you seen more homeless people on the streets? Are you more or less likely to give money to a panhandler? Share your stories.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
 Jeff Sommer talks with Diana B. Henriques about the latest developments in the Madoff case.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: A MUTANT FREAK
 John Rando talks about directing a stage adaptation of ''The Toxic Avenger.''
 nytimes.com/theater
 VIDEO: CRITICS' PICKS: RAN
 A. O. Scott looks at Akira Kurosawa's 1985 film, ''Ran.''
 nytimes.com/arts
 Well
 In Cancer, a Deeper Faith
 Dana Jennings discusses his battle with prostate cancer in light of his faith.
 nytimes.com/well

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Generations Of 'South Pacific': An interactive feature on the 60th anniversary of the Broadway opening of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ''South Pacific,'' narrated by members of the original and current Broadway revival casts. Also, audio clips of Richard Rodgers playing several numbers from the show. nytimes.com/theater (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); THEATER (73%); ETHICS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PANHANDLING (66%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); MEN'S HEALTH (62%); PROSTATE CANCER (62%); CANCER (62%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



290 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: How the Internet Got Its Rules

BYLINE: By STEPHEN D. CROCKER. 
Stephen D. Crocker is the chief executive of a company that develops information-sharing technology.

DATELINE: Bethesda, Md. 

 BODY:
 TODAY is an important date in the history of the Internet: the 40th anniversary of what is known as the Request for Comments. Outside the technical community, not many people know about the R.F.C.'s, but these humble documents shape the Internet's inner workings and have played a significant role in its success. 
 When the R.F.C.'s were born, there wasn't a World Wide Web. Even by the end of 1969, there was just a rudimentary network linking four computers at four research centers: the University of California, Los Angeles; the Stanford Research Institute; the University of California, Santa Barbara; and the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. The government financed the network and the hundred or fewer computer scientists who used it. It was such a small community that we all got to know one another. 
 A great deal of deliberation and planning had gone into the network's underlying technology, but no one had given a lot of thought to what we would actually do with it. So, in August 1968, a handful of graduate students and staff members from the four sites began meeting intermittently, in person, to try to figure it out. (I was lucky enough to be one of the U.C.L.A. students included in these wide-ranging discussions.) It wasn't until the next spring that we realized we should start writing down our thoughts. We thought maybe we'd put together a few temporary, informal memos on network protocols, the rules by which computers exchange information. I offered to organize our early notes.
 What was supposed to be a simple chore turned out to be a nerve-racking project. Our intent was only to encourage others to chime in, but I worried we might sound as though we were making official decisions or asserting authority. In my mind, I was inciting the wrath of some prestigious professor at some phantom East Coast establishment. I was actually losing sleep over the whole thing, and when I finally tackled my first memo, which dealt with basic communication between two computers, it was in the wee hours of the morning. I had to work in a bathroom so as not to disturb the friends I was staying with, who were all asleep.
 Still fearful of sounding presumptuous, I labeled the note a ''Request for Comments.'' R.F.C. 1, written 40 years ago today, left many questions unanswered, and soon became obsolete. But the R.F.C.'s themselves took root and flourished. They became the formal method of publishing Internet protocol standards, and today there are more than 5,000, all readily available online.
 But we started writing these notes before we had e-mail, or even before the network was really working, so we wrote our visions for the future on paper and sent them around via the postal service. We'd mail each research group one printout and they'd have to photocopy more themselves. 
 The early R.F.C.'s ranged from grand visions to mundane details, although the latter quickly became the most common. Less important than the content of those first documents was that they were available free of charge and anyone could write one. Instead of authority-based decision-making, we relied on a process we called ''rough consensus and running code.'' Everyone was welcome to propose ideas, and if enough people liked it and used it, the design became a standard.
 After all, everyone understood there was a practical value in choosing to do the same task in the same way. For example, if we wanted to move a file from one machine to another, and if you were to design the process one way, and I was to design it another, then anyone who wanted to talk to both of us would have to employ two distinct ways of doing the same thing. So there was plenty of natural pressure to avoid such hassles. It probably helped that in those days we avoided patents and other restrictions; without any financial incentive to control the protocols, it was much easier to reach agreement.
 This was the ultimate in openness in technical design and that culture of open processes was essential in enabling the Internet to grow and evolve as spectacularly as it has. In fact, we probably wouldn't have the Web without it. When CERN physicists wanted to publish a lot of information in a way that people could easily get to it and add to it, they simply built and tested their ideas. Because of the groundwork we'd laid in the R.F.C.'s, they did not have to ask permission, or make any changes to the core operations of the Internet. Others soon copied them -- hundreds of thousands of computer users, then hundreds of millions, creating and sharing content and technology. That's the Web.
 Put another way, we always tried to design each new protocol to be both useful in its own right and a building block available to others. We did not think of protocols as finished products, and we deliberately exposed the internal architecture to make it easy for others to gain a foothold. This was the antithesis of the attitude of the old telephone networks, which actively discouraged any additions or uses they had not sanctioned.
 Of course, the process for both publishing ideas and for choosing standards eventually became more formal. Our loose, unnamed meetings grew larger and semi-organized into what we called the Network Working Group. In the four decades since, that group evolved and transformed a couple of times and is now the Internet Engineering Task Force. It has some hierarchy and formality but not much, and it remains free and accessible to anyone.
 The R.F.C.'s have grown up, too. They really aren't requests for comments anymore because they are published only after a lot of vetting. But the culture that was built up in the beginning has continued to play a strong role in keeping things more open than they might have been. Ideas are accepted and sorted on their merits, with as many ideas rejected by peers as are accepted. 
 As we rebuild our economy, I do hope we keep in mind the value of openness, especially in industries that have rarely had it. Whether it's in health care reform or energy innovation, the largest payoffs will come not from what the stimulus package pays for directly, but from the huge vistas we open up for others to explore.
 I was reminded of the power and vitality of the R.F.C.'s when I made my first trip to Bangalore, India, 15 years ago. I was invited to give a talk at the Indian Institute of Science, and as part of the visit I was introduced to a student who had built a fairly complex software system. Impressed, I asked where he had learned to do so much. He simply said, ''I downloaded the R.F.C.'s and read them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT YASKO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); UTAH, USA (87%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



291 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Mapping the Cultural Buzz: How Cool Is That?

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
Apologies to residents of the Lower East Side; Williamsburg, Brooklyn; and other hipster-centric neighborhoods. You are not as cool as you think, at least according to a new study that seeks to measure what it calls ''the geography of buzz.''
 The research, presented in late March at the annual meeting of the Association of American Geographers, locates hot spots based on the frequency and draw of cultural happenings: film and television screenings, concerts, fashion shows, gallery and theater openings. The buzziest areas in New York, it finds, are around Lincoln and Rockefeller Centers, and down Broadway from Times Square into SoHo. In Los Angeles the cool stuff happens in Beverly Hills and Hollywood, along the Sunset Strip, not in trendy Silver Lake or Echo Park. 
 The aim of the study, called ''The Geography of Buzz,'' said Elizabeth Currid, one of its authors, was ''to be able to quantify and understand, visually and spatially, how this creative cultural scene really worked.'' 
 To find out, Ms. Currid, an assistant professor in the School of Policy, Planning and Development at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and her co-author, Sarah Williams, the director of the Spatial Information Design Lab at Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, mined thousands of photographs from Getty Images that chronicled flashy parties and smaller affairs on both coasts for a year, beginning in March 2006. It was not a culturally comprehensive data set, the researchers admit, but a wide-ranging one. And because the photos were for sale, they had to be of events that people found inherently interesting, ''a good proxy for 'buzz-worthy' social contexts,'' they write. You had to be there, but where exactly was there? And why was it there?
 The answers were both obvious and not, a Mobius strip connecting infrastructure (Broadway shows need Broadway theaters, after all), media (photographers need to cover Broadway openings) and the bandwagon nature of popular culture. Buzz, as marketers eagerly attest, feeds on itself, even, apparently, at the building level. A related exhibition opens on Tuesday at Studio-X in the West Village, just south of Houston Street, an area not quite buzzy enough to rank.
 The study follows in the wake of urban theorists like Richard Florida (Ms. Currid calls him a mentor), who have emphasized the importance of the creative class to civic development. 
 ''We had social scientists, economists, geographers all talk about it being so important,'' Ms. Currid said. ''It matters in the fashion industry, it matters in high tech. The places that produce these cultural innovations matter. We have sort of this idea -- 'Oh, Bungalow 8 matters,' but what do we even mean by that?''
 Ms. Currid became interested in assessing social scenes when doing research for her 2007 book, ''The Warhol Economy: How Fashion, Art & Music Drive New York City.'' For the buzz project, snapshots from more than 6,000 events -- 300,000 photos in all -- were categorized according to event type, controlled for overly celebrity-driven occasions and geo-tagged at the street level, an unusually detailed drilling down, Ms. Williams said. (Socioeconomic data typically follow ZIP codes or broad census tracts.)
 The researchers quickly found clusters around celebrated locations: the Kodak Theater, where the Oscars are held, for example, or Times Square. ''Certain places do become iconic, and they become the branded spaces to do that stuff,'' Ms. Currid said. ''It's hard to start a new opera house or a new theater district if you already have a Carnegie Hall or a Lincoln Center.''
 The allure trickled down to the blocks nearby, Ms. Currid said, pointing to the nightclub district in West Chelsea, which started with Bungalow 8. ''Why wouldn't they want to be near the places that already were the places to be?'' she asked. ''It makes a lot of economic and social sense.'' 
 That the buzzy locales weren't associated with the artistic underground was a quirk of the data set -- there were not enough events in Brooklyn to be statistically significant -- and of timing. ''If we took a snapshot two years from now, the Lower East Side would become a much larger place in how we understand New York,'' Ms. Currid said. 
 But mostly the data helped show the continued dominance of the mainstream news media as a cultural gatekeeper, and the never-ending cycle of buzz in the creative world. 
 ''There's an economy of scale,'' Ms. Currid said. ''The media goes to places where they know they can take pictures that sell. And the people in these fields show up because the media is there.'' 
 Distribution to a far-flung audience helps cement an area's reputation as a Very Important Place. ''We argue that those not conventionally involved in city development (paparazzi, marketers, media) have unintentionally played a significant role in the establishment of buzz and desirability hubs within a city,'' Ms. Williams and Ms. Currid write in the study. 
 Whether their research can be used to manufacture interest -- hold your party at a certain space, and boom, buzz! -- or help city planners harness social convergence to create artist-friendly neighborhoods remains to be seen. (Ms. Currid and Ms. Williams next hope to map economic indicators like real-estate values against their cultural buzz-o-meter.)
 For Ms. Williams the geo-tagging represents a new wave of information that can be culled from sites like Flickr and Twitter. ''We're going to see more research that's using these types of finer-grained data sets, what I call data shadows, the traces that we leave behind as we go through the city,'' she said. ''They're going to be important in uncovering what makes cities so dynamic.''
 Ms. Currid added: ''People talk about the end of place and how everything is really digital. In fact, buzz is created in places, and this data tells us how this happens.''
 But even after their explicit study of where to find buzz, Ms. Currid and Ms. Williams did not come away with a better understanding of how to define it. Rather, like pornography, you know it when you see it.
 ''As vague a term as 'buzz' is, it's so socially and economically important for cultural goods,'' Ms. Currid said. ''Artists become hot because so many people show up for their gallery opening, people want to wear designers because X celebrity is wearing them, people want to go to movies because lots of people are going to them and talking about them. Even though it's like, 'What the heck does that mean?,' it means something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sarah Williams, co-author of ''The Geography of Buzz,'' at the Studio-X show in the West Village.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) MAPS: The maps above show the density of some types of cultural events in Manhattan based on an analysis of photographs taken from Getty Images.(MAPS BY SARAH WILLIAMS AND MINNA NINOVA, SPATIAL INFORMATION DESIGN LAB, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY)(C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FILM (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); WRITERS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); THEATER (56%)

COMPANY: GETTY IMAGES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541922 COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (54%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



292 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Presidential Candidate Calls Ahmadinejad an Extremist

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
Rejecting the policies of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as ''extremist,'' a leading presidential candidate said Monday that he favored improved relations with the West and greater individual freedoms at home. 
 Mir Hussein Moussavi, a former prime minister who announced his candidacy last month, lashed out at what he called ''extremism'' and ''mismanagement'' by Mr. Ahmadinejad, policies that he said were ''jeopardizing the country's interests.''
 ''We need to pursue an active foreign policy to achieve detente,'' he said at a news conference here. ''Extremism has cost us a high price. We have to work hard to build international confidence.'' 
 But he said he would not back down from the country's nuclear program, which began when he was prime minister from 1980 to 1988. Instead, he said, he would try to build international confidence that Iran's nuclear ambitions were peaceful. 
 ''Weaponization and nuclear technology are two separate issues, and we should not let them get mixed up,'' he said. 
 The United States and some Western countries have accused Iran of having a clandestine nuclear weapons program, but Iran contends that its program is aimed at producing nuclear energy.
 Still, the presidential race seems to be shaping up as a clear choice on June 12 between Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Moussavi. For now, they are the leading candidates, although there is still time for others to enter the race. 
 Former President Mohammad Khatami was considered a leading moderate candidate until he withdrew from the race when Mr. Moussavi entered. Aides said he quit so as not to split the vote against Mr. Ahmadinejad.
 Mr. Moussavi, 68, is remembered for his protectionist economic policies and for introducing food rationing. An architect and painter, he has not held a government post since the Constitution was amended to eliminate the position of prime minister in 1989.
 He is seen as more conservative than Mr. Khatami, and consequently would be expected to face less opposition. Mr. Khatami, president from 1997 to 2005, acquired strong enemies among politicians who opposed his policies of greater political and social openness. 
 Mr. Moussavi said Monday that he favored freedoms of speech and the press and would try to change the law that bans private television stations.
 He said that relations with the United States would have advantages for Iran and he acknowledged the change of tone in the new American administration. ''But we have to wait and see how it will change the accusations against us,'' he said, referring to charges that Iran is trying to build a nuclear bomb and that it supports terrorists.
 Responding to a question about the Holocaust, which Mr. Ahmadinejad has dismissed as a myth, he said, ''Islam is against killing of anyone, even one person, and considers it genocide.'' 
 ''But we do not understand why the Palestinians should pay for it now,'' he added. 
 Although asked twice about the Holocaust, he did not explicitly acknowledge its existence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); HOLOCAUST (60%); GENOCIDE (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



293 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; NO. 1 NORTH CAROLINA 89, NO. 2 MICHIGAN STATE 72; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Ride Ends For Spartans As Tar Heels Coast to Title

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
If any town is skeptical of happy endings, it is this one. 
 There is too much bad news about the economy, too many people unemployed and too many boarded-up houses to believe in made-for-Disney story lines. 
 With No. 2 Michigan State having upended two No. 1 seeds on its ride to the N.C.A.A. tournament title game Monday night, the Spartans took a downtrodden city and a hope-starved state along for a joy ride. 
 But No. 1 North Carolina reminded everyone that talent can mean more than pluck, experience more than depth, and that 35-point victories are hard to disregard as mirages.
 North Carolina blasted Michigan State, 89-72, to win its fifth national championship. A Michigan State run of hope ended in a game in which it had none, as the Tar Heels jumped to a 20-point lead in the first 10 minutes.
 ''It was a perfect storm,'' Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo said. 
 North Carolina capped one of the most dominating runs in N.C.A.A. history. The Tar Heels won their six N.C.A.A. tournament games by an average of 20.1 points. Since the field expanded to 64 teams in 1985, only one other team, Michigan State in 2000, has won every game by more than 10 points. 
 The pro-Spartans crowd of 72,922 at Ford Field was taken out of the game early and never proved a significant factor. 
 A battle billed as North Carolina's talent versus Michigan State's grit proved a mismatch, much as it was when the teams met here earlier this season and the Tar Heels won by 35, a 98-63 victory on Dec. 3. Reality can be cruel. 
 ''The best team won,'' Izzo said. ''That's an easy statement to make. They played well.'' 
 North Carolina's fifth title tied Indiana for third most in college basketball history, trailing only U.C.L.A. (11) and Kentucky (7). 
 It was the second national championship for Tar Heels Coach Roy Williams, who has remade his image as an N.C.A.A. tournament coach with five Final Four trips in the past 11 years. His two national titles equal the total of the North Carolina Hall of Fame coach Dean Smith. 
 ''I'm the luckiest coach in America, I can tell you that,'' Williams said. 
 With the former North Carolina star Michael Jordan looking on, the Tar Heels channeled their history. They made 5 of their first 6 shots, establishing their dominance in the post and in transition. 
 In the end, the leading scorers Ty Lawson (21 points) of North Carolina and Goran Suton (17) of Michigan State were more a footnote on the permanent record than critical subplots in the game. That was because the Tar Heels simply outplayed the Spartans to a man, wire to wire on both ends of the floor. 
 Wayne Ellington's silky jump shot, perfect release and tough drives to the basket helped North Carolina take a 55-34 lead and set N.C.A.A. title-game records for most first-half points and largest halftime lead. Ellington, named the most outstanding player of the Final Four, had 17 points before halftime, making all three of his 3-pointers and going 6 of 7 from the field. He finished with 19 points. 
 He was not North Carolina's only standout. Tyler Hansbrough returned to North Carolina for his senior season with this very night in mind. He played with the relentless physical style that has defined his collegiate career. Spinning in the post, crashing the boards for rebounds and wearing his usual intense stare, Hansbrough capped a career that will rank among the university's best. He scored 11 points in the first half, 5 from the free-throw line, and finished with 18.
 ''This is the best way to go out,'' he said. ''I can't picture any other way.''
 Lawson, the point guard who was the Tar Heels' best player this season, had seven steals in the first half and a title-game record eight for the game. He finished with 21 points, going 15 of 18 from the free-throw line. 
 If the Spartans were to have a chance Monday, they needed to dictate tempo. Michigan State made UConn uncomfortable by playing fast-break basketball, but in this game the Spartans needed to take the Tar Heels out of their rhythm by slowing them down. 
 North Carolina used an early 16-3 run to suppress the emotion at Ford Field, perhaps the biggest ally the Spartans had. 
 Five Tar Heels combined to score their first 10 points, a fitting statistic on a night when North Carolina ran with abandon, shared the ball and guarded with verve. North Carolina shot 52.9 percent in the first half and 45.9 percent over all. 
 ''I think we lost the game in the first 10 minutes when we turned the ball over and they hit pretty much every shot,'' Suton said. 
 The Spartans had 14 first-half turnovers, leading to 17 points for the Tar Heels. The stars of the Spartans' upset of Connecticut on Saturday looked less intimidating Monday night. Raymar Morgan followed an 18-point performance with a 4-point effort. 
 ''We looked like a team that ran out of gas a little bit, and maybe deservedly so,'' Izzo said. 
 The good news for Michigan State is that it will return a nucleus of Morgan, Kalin Lucas and Delvon Roe that can help the Spartans compete for the national title next year. But that is a long off-season away. 
 On Monday night, the cold hand of reality crushed their hopes. It is a familiar feeling in these parts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tyler Hansbrough helped North Carolina claim its fifth national championship. Only U.C.L.A.(11) and Kentucky (7) have won more.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B9)
Wayne Ellington, left, scored 17 of his 19 points in the first half and was named the Final Four's outstanding player.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY LYONS/GETTY IMAGES)
Roy Williams, left, was finishing his first year as a North Carolina assistant coach when Larry Bird and Magic Johnson squared off in the 1979 final. Johnson, far right, and Michigan State won then, but Williams now has two titles.(PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT, MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS
 RIGHT, PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); BASKETBALL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (98%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



294 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Obama Impresses Many on Both Sides of Turkey's Secular and Religious Divide

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and SEBNEM ARSU

 BODY:
To the world, Turkey is a Muslim country that is a logical starting point for President Obama's outreach to the Muslim world. 
 But for Turkey -- a country that has experienced political convulsions recently over how Islam fits with an open society -- that identity is so rife with conflict that it has drawn millions to the streets and nearly caused the government to fall.
 Turkey's old ruling elite views itself as secular, an identity that is sacrosanct and dates from the founding of modern Turkey in the 1920s by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, an army general who burned bridges with the Islamic world by changing the alphabet to Latin letters and by taking power away from the religious hierarchy. 
 As a result, Turkey rarely highlighted its faith, preferring instead to think of itself as a European country with few links to the Muslim world. 
 That has changed in recent years with the economic and political rise of a new elite, for whom faith is essential. That elite, a merchant class from Turkey's religious heartland, lifted Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to power. 
 The two groups have fought bitter political battles, with the main opposition secular party accusing Mr. Erdogan of harboring a secret Islamic agenda, and nearly toppling the government last year with a court case aimed at closing down his party. The government, for its part, has dealt its own blows, obstructing news media that have been critical of officials, and delivering a multimillion-dollar tax bill to Mr. Erdogan's chief media critic. 
 In his speech to Turkey's Parliament on Monday, Mr. Obama spoke elegantly to both camps, discussing his personal ties to Islam and Turkey's ''strong and secular'' democracy, which seemed to satisfy both.
 ''He was giving the right message without making anyone in Turkey uncomfortable,'' said Yasemin Congar, the deputy editor of Taraf, a liberal newspaper. ''The secularist will say, 'good, he emphasized secularism,' and the Muslims will say, 'good, he talked against segregation.' ''
 Sedat Ergin, the editor of Milliyet, a newspaper that has been suspicious of the government's Islamic roots -- and part of the media group that was slapped with the tax bill -- expressed delight at Mr. Obama's frequent references to democracy.
 ''The most important part of his speech was the emphasis on the secular democratic structure in Turkey,'' Mr. Ergin said. ''He won back hearts of the secular circles in Turkey.''
 Those secularists were irritated by the Bush administration's emphasis on Turkey as a moderate Muslim country, and felt, Mr. Ergin said, as though the United States ''had sacrificed the secular tradition in Turkey in order to reach out to the Muslim world.''
 But that changed with Mr. Obama's speech on Monday, said Mustafa Ozyurek, deputy chairman of the secular opposition Republican People's Party.
 ''There have been some meaningless arguments about Turkey being a moderate Islamic country,'' he said. ''The new administration must have realized the problems such labels have caused in Turkey.''
 Those who chafe at Turkey's being identified as a Muslim state say the characterization reduces it unfairly and allows it to be confused, particularly in American minds, with troubled Arab autocracies. Its centuries of Ottoman history, they argue, set Turkey apart. It was never colonized, and it dabbled in democracy as early as the 19th century.
 ''If you reduce Turkey to being Muslim, you do away with 250 years of Ottoman and Turkish history,'' said Soli Ozel, a professor at Bilgi University in Istanbul. ''You reduce the country to being Jordan or Egypt.''
 Besides, Mr. Ozel argued, a purely Muslim identity does not serve Mr. Erdogan's policy of forging new ties in the Muslim world, and mediating between it and the West as an important regional player. (Turkey brought Syria and Israel into indirect negotiations last year, the first such talks in decades.)
 ''What happens to your claim if you speak with only one identity?'' Mr. Ozel asked.
 Turkey has long had troubled relations with its Kurdish minority, a relationship that Turkish liberals say must be improved if Turkey is to deepen its democracy. Ms. Congar, the Taraf editor, expressed disappointment that Mr. Obama had not addressed that issue directly, choosing instead to highlight the government's creation of a limited Kurdish-language television channel.
 Turkey's relations with the United States chilled in 2003, when the Turkish Parliament refused to permit American troops to open a northern front into Iraq through Turkey's border. But relations have gradually improved, getting a boost in 2007, when President Bush lent tacit support to Mr. Erdogan's military campaign against Kurdish separatists in northern Iraq. 
 On Monday, some took pride in the fact that Mr. Obama had chosen Turkey for his first visit to a Muslim country, and said that the recognition would help Turkey. Mr. Erdogan won a measure of fame in Muslim countries recently when he stalked off a stage in Davos, Switzerland, after an argument with Israel's president, Shimon Peres.
 ''It makes me happy that the Islam lived in Turkey is seen as a better version compared with other countries, and that the message would be sent out from here,'' said Samet Yildirim, a 26-year-old sandwich shop worker in Ankara.
 Mr. Obama's speech captured the exceptional nature of Turkey, as a country that is both Western and Eastern at once, said Oral Calislar, a columnist with Radikal, a daily newspaper.
 ''His reference of Turkey being a bridge may sound a cliche, but is very important and meaningful,'' Mr. Calislar said. ''He comes up with this brand-new concept and chooses Turkey to stress this vision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); COUPS (66%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); ARMIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



295 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words

 BODY:
RESHAPING PENTAGON SPENDING The Pentagon's budget is being reshaped by the Defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, left, with big cuts in many traditional weapons systems and more troops and new technology to fight insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 CREDIT MAY BE THAWING At long last, credit markets are beginning to show signs of easing their tight grip on lending. [B1.] 
 YEARS BEFORE A FULL RECOVERY It will take years for the United States to fully recover from the current economic crisis, in large part because of idled capacity in so many businesses. [B1.]
 FINANCIER ACCUSED OF FRAUD The prominent New York financier J. Ezra Merkin, whose private clients lost more than $2 billion in the collapse of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, has been accused of fraud and deception in a civil lawsuit brought by Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York. [B1.]
 The giant Ponzi scheme operated by Mr. Madoff and similar investment frauds are drawing greater scrutiny of pension and investment consultants. [B4.] 
 RISKY PROCEDURE Some cardiac patients are undergoing risky surgical procedures to remove and replace the electrical heart defibrillator cable known as the Sprint Fidelis. [B1.] 
 IMAGE OF F.D.I.C. IS ALTERED The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is shedding its plain vanilla image. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.] 
 HARDBALL FROM THE A.P. The Associated Press will tell Web sites publishing the work of The A.P. or its member newspapers to get its permission first and to share revenue with the news organizations -- or else. [B1.]
 A TRAVELER'S PIED-a-TERRE Owners of fashionable apartments that would have sold quickly at high prices a few years ago are buying time and making money by renting them to corporate clients. [B6.] 
 NEW SECURITY DETECTORS The government plans to replace walk-through metal detectors at airport checkpoints with whole-body imaging machines -- the kind that provide an image of the naked body. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B6.]
 RUSSIAN-STYLE BAILOUT The Russians are bailing out Avtovaz, is one of the least efficient automobile factories anywhere and the maker of the Lada automobile -- with no strings attached and the ulterior motive of keeping the peace. [A1.] 
 SALLIE MAE JOBS COME HOME Sallie Mae, the student loan lender, will return 2,000 jobs to the United States within 18 months as it shifts call center and other operations from overseas. [B8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PONZI SCHEMES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (67%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); SLM CORP (51%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (73%); BERNARD MADOFF (69%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



296 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Seeks Political Gain From Rocket Launch

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN, HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER; Choe Sang-hun reported from Seoul, South Korea,, Helene Cooper from Prague and David E. Sanger from London. Neil MacFarquhar contributed from the United Nations.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Despite the failure of North Korea's attempt to launch a satellite, Pyongyang's adversaries voiced alarm on Monday over the extended range of the North's latest rocket, while the United Nations tumbled into a disarray over how to respond to what President Obama called a ''provocative act.''
 Washington and Seoul said the North Korean rocket launched on Sunday failed to thrust a satellite into orbit. But on Monday, seeking to garner political gain from the test, the North Korean media praised Kim Jong-il's leadership, insisting that a communications satellite was circling the Earth, broadcasting patriotic songs. 
 Officials and analysts in Seoul said the North's rocket, identified by American officials as a Taepodong-2, flew at least 2,000 miles, doubling the range of an earlier rocket it tested in 1998 and boosting its potential to fire a long-range missile.
 The impoverished country may be years away from building a truly intercontinental ballistic missile and tipping it with a nuclear warhead. But to governments grown increasingly concerned by the North's military might, the launch was a sign that it was doggedly moving in that direction.
 ''North Korea's reckless act of threatening regional and global security cannot have any justification,'' said President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea in a radio speech on Monday.
 Hours after North Korea's missile test on Sunday, President Obama called for new United Nations sanctions and laid out a new approach to American nuclear disarmament policy -- one intended to strengthen the United States and its allies in halting proliferation.
 ''In a strange turn of history, the threat of global nuclear war has gone down, but the risk of a nuclear attack has gone up,'' Mr. Obama told a huge crowd in Prague's central square. ''Black market trade in nuclear secrets and nuclear materials abound. The technology to build a bomb has spread.'' 
 He said the North's testing of ''a rocket that could be used for long-range missiles'' illustrated ''the need for action, not just this afternoon at the U.N. Security Council, but in our determination to prevent the spread of these weapons.'' 
 ''Rules must be binding,'' he said. ''Violations must be punished. Words must mean something.''
 At the Security Council on Sunday, the United States and its main allies -- Japan, France and Britain --pushed for a resolution denouncing the test as a violation of the 2006 sanctions, which demanded that North Korea suspend any activity related to the launching of ballistic missiles.
 Diplomats said a main issue would be determining if the failed launch violated any resolutions.
 ''We think that what was launched is not the issue; the fact that there was a launch using ballistic missile technology is itself a clear violation,'' said Susan E. Rice, the U.S. ambassador.
 China left its position ambiguous, although diplomats said that at the initial meeting it stressed that the North Koreans had a right like any other country to launch satellites. ''Our position is that all countries concerned should show restraint and refrain from taking actions that might lead to increased tensions,'' Zhang Yesui, the Chinese ambassador, told reporters.
 Igor N. Shcherbak, the Russian deputy envoy, said that his country did not think it was a violation of the resolutions banning ballistic missiles, but he added that Russia was still studying the matter.
 Mexican Ambassador Claude Heller, the council's president, said the council would reconvene on Monday.
 In Tokyo, Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone said: ''We feel that a Security Council resolution is desirable, so we will keep trying for that.''
 Although the debris of the North Korean rocket fell hundreds of kilometers short of where the North had said they would land in the Pacific, ''the launch carries big political and military significance,'' said Jeung Young-tai, an analyst at the Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul. 
 ''No country will be naive enough to believe that it was a peaceful space program,'' Mr. Jeung said. 
 ''North Korea is on the threshold of becoming an intercontinental ballistic missile country.'' 
 Peter Hayes, director of the Nautilus Institute, a San Francisco-based think tank, said the main motivation behind the launch was ''to demonstrate the strength and vitality of Kim Jong Il's leadership to the military and the population, and for the scientific sector to declare its fealty to Kim Jong Il's leadership.''
 Kim is expected to be re-affirmed as leader by his rubber-stamp parliament, which convenes on Thursday.
 The people in the tightly isolated country have little access to news from the outside world, where the satellite launch was considered a failure.
 When North Korea first flight-tested the Taepodong-2, in July 2006, it blew apart 40 seconds after take-off. The rocket is designed to fly at least 6,700 kilometers, or 4,200 miles, according the South Korean Defense Ministry.
 This time, the official KCNA news agency asserted, ''storms of hurrays shook the room'' as the satellite entered orbit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



297 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Perfect Script, but Michigan State Lost Its Place

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Detroit 

 BODY:
 Sometimes, a team can go a little too far with metaphors. You can build high expectations and create such a fervor that you become spooked by your own hype. 
 Hoosiers, Win One for the Gipper, Us Against Them makes for good pregame drama. You still have to play the game.
 We saw a classic case of outsize symbolic representation Monday night when North Carolina took Michigan State and beat the living daylights out of a Spartans team that had become the nation's underdog. 
 After a week of nonstop sentiment about the Spartans, who cast themselves as the face of a fallen local economy, a national television audience was poised to see a great David and Goliath match. Michigan State was cast in the role of David; big bad North Carolina, with cupboards full of high school all-Americans, was Goliath. 
 Four months ago, North Carolina stormed into Michigan and beat the Spartans, 98-63, for its eight consecutive victory. Michigan State sputtered and faltered and pulled itself together in this tournament. 
 Throughout the week, the Spartans assured the faithful that they were a different team, and the tournament certainly bore that out. They had knocked off two No. 1 seeds: Louisville in a regional final and UConn in a national semifinal. 
 That set up Monday's national championship game against a North Carolina team that cruised into the tournament having defeated opponents by an average of a little more than 20 points.
 Michigan State took the floor first, to a loud ovation; the Tar Heels followed to a mixture of cheers and loud boos.
 But while Michigan State was representing the hopes of a city, North Carolina was out for revenge, not against the Spartans. 
 They were out to avenge a loss to Kansas in the national semifinals last year.
 ''We had a cause,'' Spartans Coach Tom Izzo said. ''They had a cause, too. I was pretty impressed by that.''
 The homecourt advantage even extended to the floor: the hardwood court at Ford Field was made in Amasa, Mich., not far from a town in the Upper Peninsula where Izzo was raised. The atmosphere inside Ford Field was electric from the beginning. 
 For starters, Magic Johnson and Larry Bird presented the game ball, commemorating the 30th anniversary of their 1979 national championship game, when Johnson played for Michigan State and Bird was Indiana State's one-man team. 
 The public-address announcer stoked the crowd's sense of anticipation by announcing that a star-studded class of new Basketball Hall of Fame inductees -- including Michael Jordan -- would be introduced at intermission. 
 By tip-off, the place seemed ready to explode, but the only team that did was North Carolina. The Tar Heels seized control immediately. With a parade of talent on the starting line and coming off the bench, North Carolina quickly built leads of 7 points, then 10, 15 and 20.
 By halftime, with the home team trailing by 55-34, the pro-Michigan State crowd sat in stunned silence.
 It seemed as if Izzo had been prophetic when he said: ''If we play good and they play good, we're losing. That's the way I look at it.'' 
 Izzo said he wasn't putting down his Michigan State team but simply looking objectively at North Carolina -- the team President Obama picked to win the national championship.
 ''They are the best team in the country and have earned that rank probably over a year and a half,'' Izzo said. ''But we found a way to have some teams not play as good against us.''
 Not on Monday.
 ''We looked like a team that ran out of gas a little bit,'' Izzo said.
 The Michigan State story had all the makings of a Hollywood script.
 Too bad. 
 If this were a movie, Michigan State would have won.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009



298 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: On Tap? How About Chardonnay Or Pinot Noir

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
THE bartender pulls the handle and the liquid pours forth from keg to glass with the distinctive gushing sound that has launched a zillion thirsts. Ah, yes, that fresh draft flavor -- nothing like wine on tap.
Wine? On tap? Is this another attack by the same philistines who insist on screw caps, stemless glasses and other means of depriving wine lovers of their pretensions?
On the contrary, wine, stored in kegs and served through a method similar to a draft-beer line, may be the glorious future of by-the-glass pours in bars and restaurants.
It's just a trickle right now, but the keg and tap system has successfully taken hold in restaurants in Los Angeles and San Francisco, and in wine bars in the city of Napa, Calif.; in Atlanta; and in Traverse City, the heart of Michigan wine country. And it's coming soon to New York City, to no less a place than Daniel Boulud's downtown outpost, DBGB, tentatively scheduled to open on the Bowery in May. 
''It's the wave of the future,'' said Colin Alevras, DBGB's beverage manager, who will have 24 taps at his disposal, 22 for beer and one each for a house red and a house white. The number of wine lines may increase there, he said, if the public is receptive.
What makes wine on tap not merely good but brilliant? It's not the tap, it's the keg.
Taps themselves have been used for many years as part of complex preservation systems intended to protect open bottles against the demon slayer of wine, oxygen. Perhaps you've seen such a system, bottles in a refrigerated glass cabinet, taps on the outside, a Medusa's tangle of hoses extending upward in an effort to rebuff the oxygen with inert gases like argon. Systems like these are an improvement over the half-empty bottle recorked behind the bar, but they are imperfect, complicated and expensive.
The bottles are a problem. Even with the best preservation system the wines don't always stay perfectly fresh. A lot of wine is thrown away, or served in poor condition, resulting in a lesser experience at a greater price for consumers and a lot of waste for the restaurant.
''You have to calculate in your pricing the wine you didn't sell, the wine you had to throw away,'' said Sang Yoon, the chef and owner of two Father's Office restaurants in the Los Angeles area, and a true believer in the keg and tap method. ''The wine is 20 percent cheaper right off the bat.''
Mr. Yoon served wines by the glass the conventional way at his first Father's Office in Santa Monica, where his fanatical pursuit of top-quality ingredients and superb craft beers, along with an autocratic style (''no substitutions, modifications, alterations or deletions,'' the menu reads) turned his little bar into a cult restaurant. But he wanted something better for the wine when he opened his second restaurant, in Culver City.
''I can't remember having had a positive wine-by-the-glass experience unless the bottle was freshly opened,'' he said. ''As an owner, you also come to realize how wasteful wine by the glass becomes. As a result your pricing has to reflect that waste, so most places serve cheap wine with big markups for glass pours, which equals bad value for consumers.''
Then it hit him. ''Why can't we just serve good wine out of a keg like we do with beer?'' he said. In kegs, which keep out the air, wine could stay perfectly fresh for months, he reasoned. Mr. Yoon found a restaurant in Atlanta that was serving wine from modified beer kegs, and, with an energy borne of obsession, he set out to perfect the system.
He found a treasure-trove of five-gallon soda kegs, big enough to hold about 25 bottles of wine each, no longer used by the bottlers, who had turned to bag-in-box containers. He worked to persuade wineries to fill the stainless steel kegs for him. And he custom-designed coolers for the wine kegs, separate from the cooling system he used for the 36 beers he offers on tap.
''Whites are kept at 46 degrees, and reds 55 degrees,'' he said. ''Once the wines hit the glass, the temperature rises about two degrees, thus bringing the actual service temperature to 48 and 57 respectively. I did a lot of testing.''
Mr. Yoon now offers eight wines on tap, including wines from Brewer-Clifton, Melville, Stephen Ross and Flowers, and with the reusable kegs he estimates he saves having to dispose of 10,000 bottles and related packaging a year.
It was on a scouting trip to Los Angeles last year that Mr. Alevras of DBGB visited Father's Office to look at Mr. Yoon's beer system. He came away fascinated by wines in kegs.
''It's beautiful in its simplicity,'' he said. ''Gas goes in as wine goes out.''
Gas? Well, of course. That's how a beer keg works. Except beer systems generally use a high-pressure carbon dioxide system, which carbonates the beer. Wine simply needs a low-pressure system in which gas pushes the wine from keg to tap and occupies the empty space in the keg, preventing oxidation. Mr. Yoon uses nitrogen, which the restaurant produces itself with a reverse osmosis generator.
While Mr. Yoon may have improved the system, he by no means invented it. For centuries in the ancient wine-producing regions of the world, a barrel and a tap method was the low-tech way to dispense wines in countless bars and taverns. Even today, you see wine on tap frequently in Europe, even if it doesn't have the sleek 21st-century perfectionism of Mr. Yoon's system.
Europe was the inspiration for Craig and Anne Stoll, the owners of Delfina in San Francisco. In their new pizzeria, which opened in October, they serve vino alla spina, as wine on tap is called in Italy.
At Oxbow Wine Merchant, a retail shop and wine bar in Napa, Peter Granoff is going through two 15-gallon kegs of white wine a month.
''We can pour a very nice glass of wine, five ounces, for $4 or $5,'' said Mr. Granoff, an owner. ''There are no packaging costs, the kegs get used over and over. No corks, no capsules. I would guess the consumer savings is 25 or 30 percent, depending on the wine.''
Gillian Ballance, the wine director at the Carneros Inn in the Napa Valley, was intrigued enough by what she saw at Oxbow to put in a tap at Farm, one of the inn's restaurants, about three months ago. She's now serving verdelho from Scholium Project for $6 a glass.
Is wine by the keg a novelty? Or is this just the beginning of a trend that will benefit purveyors and consumers? It makes too much economic sense, I think, for it not to take hold.
But it won't happen overnight. While the technology is not new or experimental, existing beer lines cannot simply be converted for wine. It's far easier, restaurateurs say, to install wine lines to begin with, preferably during construction. ''You can retrofit almost anything,'' Mr. Granoff said, ''but it gets really expensive.''
So far the public seems to be embracing wines on tap, although Mr. Granoff isn't taking chances. He likes to offer customers a glass to taste, and tells them only after they try it how the wine was dispensed.
''Their jaws kind of drop,'' he said. ''You've gotten past their perception, by giving them the wine without telling them where it's coming from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO WASTE: Sang Yoon has eight wines on tap at his Father's Office restaurant in Culver City, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); WINE (89%); BEER & ALE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



299 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Homeland Security on a Landmark Site

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
WASHINGTON --The federal government is about to undertake what the General Services Administration calls the largest public building project since construction of the Pentagon during World War II: consolidating the Department of Homeland Security on the historic site of a former mental hospital.
Coming during a deep recession, the $3.4 billion, 4.5-million-square-foot public works project is being hailed as a boon to the local economy. The development, on a hill overlooking the United States Capitol and the Washington Monument, represents the federal government's first significant presence in the District of Columbia's blighted neighborhoods east of the Anacostia River.
But the mammoth undertaking has also drawn sharp criticism from preservationists, who say it will be devastating to a certified national historic landmark, the now-shuttered St. Elizabeths Hospital, a pioneering mental institution. Its residents over the years have included the poet and fascist propagandist Ezra Pound after World War II and, more recently, John Hinckley, who shot President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
Objections were also raised by the National Park Service and the United States Department of the Interior, which owns parkland through which an access road is to be carved. 
Nevertheless, construction is to begin by Sept. 30 on a new $341 million headquarters for the United States Coast Guard, the first Homeland Security agency scheduled to relocate to the 176-acre St. Elizabeths ''west campus.'' That is expected to happen by the winter of 2013.
The consolidation will not bring everyone in the department, which was created after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, to the high plateau east of the Anacostia River. Some will remain at eight other locations in the Washington area. But up to 14,000 of the region's 26,000 Department of Homeland Security employees -- now scattered in 70 buildings at 40 different sites -- are expected to be on the site by 2016.
''For D.H.S., it will bring together all the critical components of this new department, facilitating a prompt and effective response whenever disaster strikes, as well as creating a 'common culture' among the agencies that were consolidated,'' said Tony Costa, acting commissioner of public buildings for the General Services Administration, which owns and oversees all federal properties.
''For the American taxpayer,'' Mr. Costa added, ''it will save more than $630 million over the next three decades, when compared to the alternative of housing these D.H.S. components in leased space.''
Years in the planning, the consolidation at St. Elizabeths has been enthusiastically endorsed by Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. The president's stimulus package included $650 million for the project. This is to cover construction of the Coast Guard headquarters and more than $200 million in infrastructure improvements like utilities, roads, demolition, security fences and landscaping.
The consolidation has garnered strong support from local officials, who have been trying for decades to land a large federal presence east of the Anacostia River, Washington's poorest section. ''This project will catalyze development east of the Anacostia River faster than almost any other project we have on the drawing board,'' said Neil Albert, deputy mayor for planning and economic development.
The Homeland Security offices will mainly be on the 176-acre federally owned west campus of St. Elizabeths, but the department and the G.S.A. have agreed to put a 750,000-square-foot office building on the 170-acre east campus, which is owned by the District of Columbia. (John Hinckley is now housed in a forensic psychiatric hospital on the east campus.) The campuses are adjoining, bisected by Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, a public road.
The city hopes the presence of the Department of Homeland Security will ignite private mixed-used development on the rest of the east campus. It envisions that shops, restaurants and apartments will be added there.
These kinds of developments would be welcomed by residents of the adjoining Anacostia and Congress Heights neighborhoods, which also stand to benefit from thousands of construction jobs. In addition, minority contractors have been hired to stabilize the site and have been promised a major role in the project, which is expected to run until 2016.
The hospital on this site was initially called the Government Hospital for the Insane. Established in 1852, it was part of the first generation of asylums created for the indigent insane, largely through the efforts of the social reformer Dorothea Dix. It was the first such federal institution, and it also served as a military hospital during the Civil War. Wounded soldiers who were not mentally ill grew weary of explaining in their letters home that they were not insane. Thus, the name change to St. Elizabeths, using the name given the land by a 17th-century owner.
St. Elizabeths grew during the latter part of the 19th century and early 20th century and at one time included a dairy and vegetable farm to supply the complex. The classic red-brick Victorian buildings, now boarded up, still dominate the west campus and give it a ghost town feel. The original building, designed in Gothic Revival style by Thomas U. Walter, architect of the United States Capitol dome, is to house the secretary of Department of Homeland Security, along with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, by 2014.
The G.S.A. promises to restore 52 of 62 historic structures. ''Who else could put this kind of money into preserving this facility, other than the federal government?'' asked a D.H.S. spokesman, Larry Orluskie. ''You couldn't turn this over to a nonprofit organization and say, 'Maintain St. Elizabeths.' It would crumble for sure.''
While most of St. Elizabeths, which had 7,640 patients at its peak at the end of World War II, was inaccessible to the public, people in the area recall visiting the Point, a promontory at the edge of the plateau with panoramic views of the nation's capital and Fourth of July fireworks. The G.S.A. says the public will still have some access to the overlook and to a Civil War cemetery, in what will otherwise be a high-fence, high-security center.
''If history is a guide, where the federal government comes, it's like the Good Housekeeping seal of approval,'' said Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District's nonvoting delegate to Congress. ''Private business and other entities spring up precisely because of the federal presence. There's no doubt this will happen here, particularly with the large amount of federal employees coming.''
The Homeland Security project, scaled down slightly to address criticisms, won approval in January from the National Capital Planning Commission, a hybrid local-federal agency that must approve all federal projects in the capital region. The vote was 9 to 1, with the negative vote cast by Peter May, associate regional director for the National Park Service, representing the Interior Department.
Mr. May said his department objected to ''the cumulative effect of all the development and its essential impact on the national historic landmark.''
The strongest outside objections have come from the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which issued a report in 2007 concluding that more than 2.5 million square feet of development would overwhelm the national historic landmark.
Correction: April 15, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on the Square Feet pages last Wednesday about the planned consolidation of the Department of Homeland Security on the site of St. Elizabeths Hospital, a historic mental institution in Washington, misstated the surname of the acting commissioner of public buildings for the General Services Administration, which oversees federal properties. He is Tony Costa, not Acosta.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, established in 1852, was one of the earliest asylums for the indigent insane.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Ezra Pound and John Hinckley were once inmates at St. Elizabeths. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); TERRORISM (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); RELOCATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (55%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); US COAST GUARD (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



300 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2672 words

HEADLINE: British Derring-Do, Innards a Specialty

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
 AS if a menu with lamb's tongue, calf's heart, rabbit's kidney and pig's foot left any doubt about their whole-hog approach to food, the three proprietors of the restaurant Feast recently went out and branded themselves, more or less.
 They got matching tattoos -- three little pigs, each spotted, with an upturned snout, just like the adorable oinker on the restaurant's logo. These fanciful brands were statements of culinary orientation, opportunities for epidermal advertising and, most of all, celebrations of a milestone. 
 Feast, which opened in late March 2008, was about to mark its first birthday. It had survived a year, despite its owners' occasional doubts.
 ''It was an enormous gamble, doing this kind of restaurant in Houston,'' said Richard Knight, a British ex-pat who owns Feast with a fellow ex-pat, James Silk, and Mr. Silk's American wife, Meagan. He and Mr. Silk got their tattoos on their right forearms, while Ms. Silk opted for her left hip, where it wouldn't be so readily visible. 
 ''I'm still trying to be a little feminine,'' she said.
 Feast would, in fact, be a gamble anywhere in America, because the menu doesn't just slip in a little tongue here, a little liver there. It's a full-on, extended ode to offal that has no real peer in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and other major cities that pride themselves on their epicurean adventurousness.
 Feast (219 Westheimer Road, 713-529-7788, feasthouston.com) embraces nose-to-tail cooking so thoroughly that when I ordered amberjack, what I got was the fish's severed head, not much smaller than my own, with an unblinking, accusatory eye staring right at me. If ''The Godfather'' had been set at sea, this is what the potentate who displeased Don Corleone might have found under his sheets.
 With nimble fork work I had to burrow into dark recesses for the amberjack's cheek and neck flesh, expertly roasted and more delicate than anything the rest of the fish might have yielded. It was splendid, like many dishes I tried during a recent dinner whose pleasures went beyond the plate to the restaurant's setting in a Craftsman-style house with gorgeous wood trim and an old-fashioned, musky languor.
 Those pleasures also included the way Mr. Knight and Mr. Silk, who do the cooking while Ms. Silk runs the front of the house, dart from the kitchen in their chef's whites to see who has had the temerity to order up their organ meat and to watch those diners' expressions when something especially strange lands on the table. They themselves look a little disheveled, a little frantic and more than a little mischievous, in a very English way.
 What they've fashioned in a foreign land of big steaks and bold Tex-Mex is a restaurant that's not just offbeat and challenging but also serious and enormously enjoyable. It's one of the country's outstanding newcomers.
 As it has evolved over 12 rocky and rewarding months, it has become more broadly accessible. Its menu has expanded to include some less adventurous fare, though what hasn't changed -- and won't -- is the restaurant's intense devotion to its cooks' motherland, evoked in an array of rustic classics.
 One of the newer, tamer specials on the night I went was chicken potpie, and what I found when I tunneled through a hood of pastry as broad as a beret wasn't giblets but white meat. Although I felt somewhat cheated, my rattled friend Barbara, eager to move on from the rabbit's liver in front of her, let out an ecstatic yelp of relief.
 On most nights there is also braised chicken, though it goes by a name that's not familiar to most American diners: cock-a-leekie. That's a British staple on a menu rife with such terminology and fare: haggis, tatties (mashed potatoes) and neeps (turnips); cullen skink (a Scottish seafood stew); bubble and squeak (a potato hash of sorts); black pudding (a kind of blood sausage). To dine at Feast you need not just courage but a glossary.
 Mr. Knight and Mr. Silk, both 40, met as teenagers in the southern English town of Bognor Regis, and they've entered into many a misadventure together over years. For a short while they played in a rock band whose failure, Mr. Knight says, may have been sealed by its name: the Pelican Retorts.
 They separately drifted into cooking, each of them pinging from restaurant to restaurant and Mr. Silk landing in one that, more than any other, inspired Feast: St. John in London.
 St. John and its chef, Fergus Henderson, are to nose-to-tail eating what El Bulli and Ferran Adria are to molecular gastronomy. Mr. Silk worked at St. John on and off for six years, in a range of roles including waiter and butcher. He took a special shine to the butchering.
 Mr. Knight immigrated to America about 13 years ago; Mr. Silk moved here about three years ago. Both ended up in Houston because of the American women they'd married or were about to. Mr. Knight and his wife have since divorced.
 Before Feast, the two men cooked together at a restaurant just outside Houston, in Conroe, though they didn't go as gonzo with the innards there. Then they took over what had been a French place in the Montrose neighborhood of Houston, and decided to pull out all the stops.
 ''There was nobody at all doing anything in this direction,'' Mr. Knight said during a telephone interview after my meal at Feast.
 ''I mean, you'd see the odd belly,'' he added, referring to pork. ''But no one was doing the tongues and tails and testicles we're doing.'' And certainly no one was indulging in the kind of naughty nomenclature the Feast proprietors favor.
 ''With some of the things we've done, there's schoolboy humor involved,'' Mr. Silk conceded. 
 He was referring to a dish they called (accurately, as it happens) tongue in breast, and to another they called tongue in the hole, because it was a riff on the British classic toad in the hole.
 After a while, they calmed down.
 ''We had some ladies phoning us and saying, 'I'm coming in today, but I'm afraid -- what can I eat?' '' Mr. Knight said. ''And we thought: that's not right.''
 Now there are dishes like cassoulet, lamb shank and scallops on the menu, along with dares that even the restaurant's most loyal diners won't take.
 ''I'm just throwing one of them into the trash this morning,'' Mr. Silk said. ''Eel pie. We got a beautiful conger eel from our fisherman, a many-toothed conger.'' 
 The fisherman who supplies Feast knows that Mr. Knight and Mr. Silk will take and cook critters from the Gulf of Mexico that are hauled in accidentally (the by-catch) and might otherwise be thrown away. Last week Feast smoked and served footlong baby barracudas.
 On several occasions they've served an odd-looking Gulf fish whose real name they don't even know but whose nickname greatly amuses them. The fish is gray in color, has an enormous gaping mouth and is referred to as a ''mother-in-law.''
 But Mr. Knight and his co-conspirators say they're not just trying to be eccentric and cheeky. Their use of unusual creatures and innards, they say, springs from the same sensibility as their insistence on free-range chickens: a deep appreciation of animals. Ms. Silk, 30, who'd never eaten organ meat before meeting her husband, said: ''I could be a vegetarian if I let my conscience guide me. But another way of giving an animal the respect it deserves is using as much of the animal as possible.'' 
 There is an economic advantage to that: Feast is able to keep most of its appetizers under $10 and most of its entrees under $25, in part by using less widely desired cuts of meat. The restaurant has never served filet mignon, and while there was pork belly, pork cheek, pig's tail and pig's head terrine the night I dined there, there wasn't anything like a pork chop.
 But it's clear that passion more than thrift drives Mr. Knight and Mr. Silk to cook what they do. The more conventional fare on the menu at Feast doesn't reflect the same sort of commitment and pack the same kind of excitement that other dishes do.
 The Spanish-style meatballs I had were unexceptional, and that spectacular-looking chicken potpie was a spectacular bore.
 But there were irresistible crunch and funk in the restaurant's black pudding, made from imported morcilla that Mr. Knight and Mr. Silk slice, pan-fry and then serve with a fried egg, English peas and mint. They've cinched the appeal of crispness with funkiness and of crispness with fattiness, the latter combination manifest in an entree of pork belly served with a thick layer of skin, the way suckling pig often is.
 The restaurant's salad of pork cheek and dandelion may be a direct crib from St. John, but that didn't make it any less terrific, the bitter greens offsetting the richness of the meat. 
 While that salad strived for a balance of effects, the rabbit's liver, pan-fried with rabbit's kidneys and served in thick gravy over toast, was a flat-out revel in gamy richness -- and my favorite dish of the night.
 The all-European wine list emphasizes zippy and weighty reds that are wisely chosen to complement the food, and few bottles are over $75. 
 The short list of desserts includes an outstanding sticky toffee pudding that screams Englishness in the loudest but sweetest of ways.
 Why, then, were only 2 of the restaurant's 14 tables occupied when I was there? That was partly because it was Monday. But also, for all its menu concessions, Feast remains a dicey proposition for its owners.
 ''We still worry,'' Ms. Silk said. ''It's a constant worry.'' 
 In fact they got the tattoos, she said, only after they realized that one of their regular customers was a tattoo artist and successfully proposed a barter: cooking for inking.
 That regular, Gabriel Massey, said that when he redeems his credit, it will be for fish. He described himself as a ''semi-vegetarian'' who sometimes eats seafood and goes to Feast for the freshness and the finesse of theirs.
 ''They have this fish pie that's amazing,'' he said.
 I asked him what was in it.
 ''I don't know,'' he said, then fell silent for a few freighted beats. ''I trust they're not putting some kind of entrails in there.''
 Recipe: Cock-a-Leekie Adapted from Feast, Houston Time: 1 1/2 hours
 Adapted from Feast, Houston
 Time: 1 1/2 hours
 2 quarts salt-free homemade chicken stock or commercial low-sodium chicken broth
 2 medium leeks, trimmed of roots and tough dark green leaves, quartered lengthwise and thoroughly washed
 4 whole star anise
 1 4-pound fresh free-range organic chicken, cut into 8 pieces and skinned
 Salt
 12 small to medium red potatoes, halved
 4 ounces (about 12) dried prunes, cut into 1/4-inch slices
 2 cups heavy cream
 8 slices smoked bacon
 1/4 cup minced mint leaves.
 1. Place chicken stock in a large saucepan and place over high heat to bring to a boil. Meanwhile, set aside a large bowl of ice water. When stock is boiling, add leeks and poach for 2 minutes. Remove with tongs and place in ice water until cool, then drain.
 2. Add star anise and chicken pieces to broth. Reduce heat to low and simmer gently until chicken is just done, about 30 minutes. Transfer chicken and anise to a bowl and add enough hot broth to just cover; set aside. Return remaining broth to high heat and reduce to 1 1/2 to 2 cups. Meanwhile, in a medium pan of lightly salted water, boil red potatoes until tender, about 20 minutes.
 3. Add prunes and cream to reduced broth. Boil until prunes are soft and sauce has thickened enough to coat the back of a spoon, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, fry bacon until lightly browned and beginning to crisp, about 5 minutes. Add leeks and continue to cook until leeks are lightly browned, another 5 minutes. Transfer bacon and leeks to paper towels to drain; keep warm.
 4. Season sauce with salt to taste. Drain potatoes and toss with mint. Drain chicken (broth may be reserved for another use), discarding star anise. To serve, place chicken on a plate, ladle with prune sauce, and top with leeks and bacon. Add potatoes and serve.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Recipe: Honey Wheat Cake Adapted from Feast, Houston Time: 1 hour 45 minutes
 Adapted from Feast, Houston
 Time: 1 hour 45 minutes
 Butter, for greasing cake pan
 14 ounces clotted cream, also known as Devonshire cream
 1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
 1 large egg, lightly beaten
 9 ounces whole wheat flour, sifted (about 1 3/4 cups after sifting)
 3 tablespoons warmed honey
 1/2 cup chopped walnuts
 1 teaspoon baking soda.
 1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Butter a 7-inch springform cake pan. Using an electric mixer, beat together 8 ounces cream, the brown sugar and egg. Gradually add flour, mixing well.
 2. Beat in warm honey and chopped nuts. Mix well, about 30 seconds. Add baking soda and mix again until well blended, about 30 seconds. Turn into cake pan and smooth top. Bake until a toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 1/2 hours. Allow to cool slightly, then remove from pan. Serve with remaining 6 ounces cream passed on the side, for spreading on slices.
 Yield: 8 to 10 servings.
 Recipe: Cock-a-Leekie Adapted from Feast, Houston Time: 1 1/2 hours
 Adapted from Feast, Houston
 Time: 1 1/2 hours
 2 quarts salt-free homemade chicken stock or commercial low-sodium chicken broth
 2 medium leeks, trimmed of roots and tough dark green leaves, quartered lengthwise and thoroughly washed
 4 whole star anise
 1 4-pound fresh free-range organic chicken, cut into 8 pieces and skinned
 Salt
 12 small to medium red potatoes, halved
 4 ounces (about 12) dried prunes, cut into 1/4-inch slices
 2 cups heavy cream
 8 slices smoked bacon
 1/4 cup minced mint leaves.
 1. Place chicken stock in a large saucepan and place over high heat to bring to a boil. Meanwhile, set aside a large bowl of ice water. When stock is boiling, add leeks and poach for 2 minutes. Remove with tongs and place in ice water until cool, then drain.
 2. Add star anise and chicken pieces to broth. Reduce heat to low and simmer gently until chicken is just done, about 30 minutes. Transfer chicken and anise to a bowl and add enough hot broth to just cover; set aside. Return remaining broth to high heat and reduce to 1 1/2 to 2 cups. Meanwhile, in a medium pan of lightly salted water, boil red potatoes until tender, about 20 minutes.
 3. Add prunes and cream to reduced broth. Boil until prunes are soft and sauce has thickened enough to coat the back of a spoon, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, fry bacon until lightly browned and beginning to crisp, about 5 minutes. Add leeks and continue to cook until leeks are lightly browned, another 5 minutes. Transfer bacon and leeks to paper towels to drain; keep warm.
 4. Season sauce with salt to taste. Drain potatoes and toss with mint. Drain chicken (broth may be reserved for another use), discarding star anise. To serve, place chicken on a plate, ladle with prune sauce, and top with leeks and bacon. Add potatoes and serve.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Recipe: Honey Wheat Cake Adapted from Feast, Houston Time: 1 hour 45 minutes
 Adapted from Feast, Houston
 Time: 1 hour 45 minutes
 Butter, for greasing cake pan
 14 ounces clotted cream, also known as Devonshire cream
 1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
 1 large egg, lightly beaten
 9 ounces whole wheat flour, sifted (about 1 3/4 cups after sifting)
 3 tablespoons warmed honey
 1/2 cup chopped walnuts
 1 teaspoon baking soda.
 1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Butter a 7-inch springform cake pan. Using an electric mixer, beat together 8 ounces cream, the brown sugar and egg. Gradually add flour, mixing well.
 2. Beat in warm honey and chopped nuts. Mix well, about 30 seconds. Add baking soda and mix again until well blended, about 30 seconds. Turn into cake pan and smooth top. Bake until a toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 1/2 hours. Allow to cool slightly, then remove from pan. Serve with remaining 6 ounces cream passed on the side, for spreading on slices.
 Yield: 8 to 10 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ARMS, HIPS, SNOUTS: The three owners of Feast in Houston acquired their pig tattoos by bartering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
TO BITE OR BE BITTEN Top, from left: Richard Knight, Meagan Silk and James Silk at Feast, in Houston. They roast a fish they call a ''mother-in-law.''
 FOR THE ADVENTUROUS The pork confit salad, left, and cock-a-leekie (chicken, bacon and prunes) at Feast. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



301 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 291 words

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
BANKING BIKERS
 Change Strategy
 Matt Heitmann, co-founder of Cadence, a high-end cycling shop on Hudson Street, tracks the economic downturn from his cash register. ''You can pinpoint the traumatic events with our drop in sales: Bear Stearns, et cetera,'' he said. ''On those days, or the days directly after, our sales plunged.'' 
 Before the financial crisis, he said, about 80 percent of Cadence's customers worked in finance. ''Then a huge percentage of our customers just evaporated.''
 In response, the spalike shop, where bikes cost as much as $20,000, has slashed private training rates and brought in Cannondale as a midmarket alternative to the more expensive Cervelo and BMC bikes. 
 Cadence plans to offer free rides in Central Park with one of its coaches. ''We were too Gucci, too Neiman Marcus, and not enough Macy's,'' said Mr. Heitmann, who has a Ph.D. in philosophy. 
 In an e-mail message, he explained the strategy in Hegelian terms: ''Take the status quo (thesis), challenge it with a new idea (antithesis), and emerge with a better idea (synthesis). We're at an antithetical period -- I believe the Cadence brand will emerge stronger and better despite the difficulties New York is experiencing now.''
 Try this for antithesis: cycling coaches who charge as much as $150 an hour are reporting a spike in business. ''I almost have a waiting list,'' said Roger Aspholm, a coach affiliated with the Century Road Club Association.
 And Foundation, the local racing team most closely tied to Wall Street, has even added riders this season.
 ''The people on Wall Street, they're riding more right now for two reasons,'' said Ric Wolfe, a team captain. ''Either they lost their jobs, or they're frustrated at work.''
 J. DAVID GOODMAN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jose Medina, a mechanic at Cadence, which lost clients.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CYCLING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAYOFFS (69%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



302 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Inspiration Loses Out to Determination

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

DATELINE: Detroit 

 BODY:
 In the wake of North Carolina's convincing victory over Michigan State in the national championship game, critics have been compelled to put the Tar Heels' impressive N.C.A.A. tournament run in context. How good are they? Is this one of the greatest tournament teams in the last five years? 
 The most astute assessment of North Carolina came from the players who had been on the wrong side of Monday's 17-point defeat. 
 Travis Walton, the Michigan State guard, described North Carolina as a flash. 
 ''In the first 10 minutes -- it was a blur when they jumped out on us so fast,'' he said. 
 Asked to assess the Tar Heels' talent, Walton offered a stark assessment: ''They have no weakness.'' 
 He went down the list: the backup point guard Bobby Frasor replaced Ty Lawson when Lawson was injured and kept the team on track; Tyler Hansbrough, one of the most decorated players in North Carolina history and the national player of the year last season, was not even seen as the Tar Heels' best player. ''Now they were saying Ty Lawson was the best player on the team,'' Walton said. 
 Then there were Wayne Ellington, the Final Four's most valuable player, and the outstanding freshman Ed Davis, ''who is not starting,'' Walton said. 
 ''You have five to six N.B.A. players that can maybe go first round to early second round in the draft,'' he said. Walton described Carolina as ''a college team that can beat the worst team in the N.B.A., probably.''
 That's a stretch, but you get the picture. North Carolina, under Roy Williams, is a dynasty in the making and the only program that may come close in the next two to three years is Kentucky with its new head coach, John Calipari.
 Even before Monday's game, Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo said, ''If North Carolina plays as well as it could and Michigan State played as well as it could play, they win.'' 
 Izzo said he wasn't putting down his Michigan State team but simply looking objectively at North Carolina -- the team President Obama picked to win the national championship.
 After the game Izzo was not as willing to gush, but was more apologetic. After a weekend of hype, his Spartans came out flat and were flattened.
 ''The only thing I feel bad for is the biggest crowd to ever see a college basketball game; it wasn't much of a game,'' Izzo said. ''I feel bad for the fans in that.'' 
 In truth, there was no way this national championship game could have lived up to its billing. There was so much weight put on Michigan State to be the inspirational symbol of an economically depressed state that the Spartans, not North Carolina, might have been intimidated. 
 Izzo acknowledged that his team seemed shocked. ''I did feel a little deer-in-the-headlights look,'' he said. ''A lot of it was in our upper class, not rookies.'' 
 As tempting as it may be to think that one game or one tournament run can lift spirits, it's equally true -- as Michigan State fans discovered -- that a loss can deepen the depression and hurt even more. On Tuesday, when the dust cleared, Michigan's unemployment rate was still in double digits and the auto industry was still in shambles.
 After the game Hansbrough said he was aware of the Michigan State beacon of inspiration theme. ''I thought it was interesting,'' he said. ''I understand the city is not doing good economically, but the way I look at it, it's pretty much the whole country.
 ''We're North Carolina and we wanted to win for us.''
 Overlooked in the Final Four hoopla was that North Carolina was on a mission, as well. 
 ''They had a cause, too,'' Izzo said of the Tar Heels. ''I was pretty impressed by that.''
 North Carolina's cause was to avenge an embarrassing loss to Kansas last year in the national semifinal.
 After considering turning pro, Hansbrough, Lawson, Ellington and Green committed to stay at North Carolina and bring home the championship they felt they missed. 
 These Tar Heels had a clear goal. They weren't trying to save the state; they wanted to win a national championship. The mission was to win a title, and the Spartans, like Oklahoma and Villanova before them, were background music.
 Hansbrough acknowledged that the most difficult part of Monday's national championship was staying engaged during a game they had well in hand. 
 ''It's very hard to stay concentrated when you have a big lead like that,'' he said. ''We wanted to celebrate, but we still had to play the game.''
 The Spartans took an intoxicating story line, expended a lot of psychic energy and built high expectations that were practically impossible to meet. 
 ''We looked like a team that ran out of gas a little bit,'' Izzo said.
 The Spartans certainly had a great script and if the Final Four were a movie, Michigan State would have won. 
 You still have to play the game.
 An earlier version of this column incorrectly identified the team's backup point guard and, because of an editing error, misstated when North Carolina lost in last year's tournament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



303 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Santa Barbara Reshifts, Now Opposing Drilling

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
It seemed like a symbolic tipping point for the nation in August when, in the midst of record high gasoline prices and a presidential campaign, the Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors abandoned its longtime opposition to offshore oil drilling. 
 But six months later, with oil prices less than half what they were last summer, the board met on the issue again on Tuesday and reverted to its traditional stance, approving a resolution against offshore drilling in federal waters by a 3-to-2 vote.
 ''I just feel this is not our future,'' said Supervisor Doreen Farr, who voted for the resolution.
 Santa Barbara's longstanding antipathy to drilling traces back to a huge 1969 oil spill off the city's coast that helped galvanize the environmental movement. 
 Ms. Farr, who won election to the board in November, replaced Brooks Firestone, who in August cast the decisive vote in favor of drilling. At the time, Mr. Firestone, who did not seek re-election, cited the importance of drilling to the economy and to reducing the nation's dependence on foreign energy sources. 
 Tuesday's resolution was proposed by two supervisors from the city of Santa Barbara, Janet Wolf and Salud Carbajal. Ms. Farr's district encompasses part of the city but stretches north and east into the county's agricultural areas. 
 Two other supervisors from inland areas, Joseph Centeno and Joni Gray, have consistently favored an end to federal moratoriums on drilling. President George W. Bush lifted one moratorium last year. Also in 2008, Congress let a separate moratorium lapse. 
 The board's vote is advisory. Specific offshore drilling proposals must be approved by the federal Interior Department. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar began holding hearings this week and is scheduled to preside at one next week in San Francisco.
 There are already 33 oil installations off the coast of California, many visible from the coastline of Santa Barbara County.
 Ms. Farr said the wisdom of opposing drilling ''has been borne out over time.'' She added: ''Proponents of more drilling will say the technology has been improved. But when you look at what causes spills, it's not about the technology, it comes about because of human error.''
 Mr. Firestone, who attended Tuesday's meeting as a private citizen, said the reversal reflected a way of thinking that would soon change again.
 ''There is just a huge intellectual prejudice: Oil, bad,'' he said. ''People really don't think about it very much.'' 
 The economic decline and the possibility of California's earning money from new leases will change people's minds, Mr. Firestone predicted.
 ''I think the economy is going to force rationality here,'' he said.
 In an interview after the vote, Ms. Wolf, one of the resolution's sponsors, said, ''I look at this as setting the record straight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With offshore oil drilling platforms in the distance, children played in the surf early this year in Santa Barbara County, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL A. MARIANT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KEN SALAZAR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



304 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: For Pizza, Thinking Outside the Circle

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
THE frequently mobbed and fervently discussed new restaurant Co. -- pronounced ''company'' -- was born of a worship of dough. That's why the pizzas at the center of its menu are as good as they are.
 That may also be why they're not even better.
 Its sire and guiding spirit, Jim Lahey, hails from the breadmaking side of things. It's bread above all he knows and loves, and you may well have tasted the evidence of that if you've eaten out in New York over recent years. Many restaurants buy loaves, rolls, focaccia and such from Sullivan Street Bakery, his yeasty baby. At least they do if they're smart.
 The man can do wonders with flour and water, massaged or not. (He's a leading proponent of the knead-less method of baking.) He can do fluffy, crunchy, supple, dense. He can do pizza bianca -- man, oh man, can he do pizza bianca -- those salty squares of almost entirely naked crust. 
 And his talents have made him, among many of the city's food-obsessed, a high-carbohydrate counterpoint to David Chang, less chef than shaman, especially with that monklike bald head of his and otherworldly gaze. As soon as he announced plans to expand into full-fledged pizzas and open a restaurant, the breathless chatter began, and the lines formed the instant Co.'s doors opened more than three months ago. Mr. Lahey couldn't have made a bigger splash if he'd named his new place Momofuku Mozzarella Bar.
 But he could indeed improve upon his pizzas somewhat. Although the best of them are outstanding and all pack the pleasures of a serious crust with serious blisters -- Mr. Lahey uses an oven that generates heat in excess of 900 degrees -- he hasn't yet nailed the toppings. It's as if he's too focused on, and maybe too confident about, what lies beneath. A pizzaiolo-come-lately, he needs to sweat the cheese and the rest of it a little more.
 On some pizzas -- the mushroom-bedecked boscaiola, for example -- the advertised bufala mozzarella was barely discernible. The classic margherita pizza suffered from a deficit of just about everything: cheese, tomato, even basil leaves, rationed as if they were shavings of white truffle. Co.'s pizzas read different from the way they register, the menu touting twice as many toppings as actually make an impact.
 And those blisters sometimes multiply and spread into jarringly ashy, sooty territory. What's a desirable sear and what's no better than cinders? A few of the many pizzas I had at Co. left me wondering.
 Co. is at the forefront of the city's artisanal pizza fixation, which has deepened and broadened over recent months, as establishment after establishment pops up to pronounce its individual-size, Neapolitan-style pies better or truer than what's come before.
 The downturn in the economy surely has something to do with it. Even when a mozzarella diva like Una Pizza Napoletana charges nearly twice as much per square inch as Patsy's, John's or Grimaldi's would dare to, a pizza dinner doesn't cost what steak or sushi would. And pizza feels like the right, rustic, filling answer and antidote to austerity.
 Unlike other newcomers around town, Co. tries to be -- and is -- a relatively complete restaurant, offering some excellent alternatives and accessories to pizza, including salumi and cheeses, a few serviceable desserts, a half-dozen beers and more than twice that number of wines.
 It doesn't take reservations, and at dinnertime that can sometimes mean waits in the vicinity of an hour, with nowhere to sit comfortably in the meantime. You're usually safe, though, at lunch, which has the advantage of all the soft light that trickles through Co.'s big exterior windows, facing west and south.
 The room, organized around a long communal table, has a simple, clean prettiness thanks to pale white oak paneling and a lack of clutter. Service is upbeat and efficient -- maybe too efficient: if you don't build your own pauses into your meal, you could be in and out in an hour flat, whether or not that's your wish.
 Resign yourself to a starchy free fall, because some of what you should order in advance of the pizza is not entirely unpizzalike.
 By all means get the pizza bianca, along with ricotta for spreading and olive oil for dipping, though you'll want to keep some of the bianca pristine. That's how they eat it in Rome, where they sagely eat a great deal of it.
 Get the creamy chicken liver, which comes on toasted bread.
 And not merely because it's a change of pace and an injection of needed roughage, get the butter lettuce salad. The roasted butternut squash and pumpkinseeds in the mix provide loads of flavor and a variety of textures.
 On most days there's a special pizza or two to supplement about eight regulars. I'd rank the top five regulars as follows: the popeye (spinach leaves with three cheeses); the ham and cheese (with first-rate prosciutto); the stracciatella (more densely cheesy than many other pies, with some arugula and crushed tomato); the flambe (rich and maybe a touch too sweet, courtesy of bechamel and caramelized onions) and the leek-and-sausage.
 On just about every pie the toppings stopped the right distance shy of the edge, leaving a rim of crust that wasn't too broad or puffy, like some crusts I've encountered. The dough had character: no question about that, and no complaint there.
 Mr. Lahey has character as well, and one expression of it in particular amuses me. It's a line in small type on the menu that says: ''Our pies are not always round.''
 Is that a declaration of rebellion? A prophylactic apology?
 Most likely it's just the musing of a craftsman, as intrigued by his work as its hungry and devoted consumers are.
 Co.
 * 
 230 Ninth Avenue (24th Street), Chelsea; (212) 243-1105.
 ATMOSPHERE A bright, uncluttered, pleasant room with a teasing peek of the kitchen and big glass windows facing two directions.
 SOUND LEVEL Loud when crowded.
 RECOMMENDED DISHESPizza bianca; chicken liver toast; butter lettuce salad; escarole salad; prosciutto; popeye, stracciatella, and ham and cheese pizzas; chocolate bread-crumb torte.
 WINE LIST Succinct and serviceable, with almost all wines served by the glass as well as bottle.
 PRICE RANGE Snacks, appetizers and salads, $3 to $7; individual-size pizzas, $9 to $18; desserts, $3 to $9.
 HOURS From 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tuesday to Saturday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday. 
 RESERVATIONS Not accepted.
 CREDIT CARDS All major.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Entire restaurant on ground level; accessible restrooms.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SPEAKING OF CRUST: Pizzas at Co. in Chelsea come out of a 900-degree oven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (86%); BAKERIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



305 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Playwright Finds a New Stage Home in New York

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Anna Deavere Smith, who transformed the art of solo performance in the 1990s by embodying dozens of characters in her plays ''Fires in the Mirror'' and ''Twilight: Los Angeles 1992,'' is returning to the New York stage this fall for the first time in nine years with a new production about medicine and health care, ''Let Me Down Easy.''
 The play was originally commissioned by the Public Theater and was supposed to have its debut there in the 2005-6 season, but Ms. Smith has opted for a new Off Broadway home in New York: Second Stage Theater, where ''Let Me Down Easy'' is to begin previews on Sept. 15 and open in early October. The director will be Leonard Foglia, who performed similar duties on Broadway last year with the one-man show ''Thurgood,'' starring Laurence Fishburne. 
 Ms. Smith, who spent the past year refining ''Let Me Down Easy'' at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven and the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., said in a phone interview that the Second Stage production would be quite different in approach from the earlier productions.
 ''It's a substantial revision of what I did before, focusing far more on health care than the previous productions,'' Ms. Smith said. ''Signs seem to suggest we will soon be in a vigorous national debate over health care. The piece not only looks at the human body as both resilient and vulnerable, but also health care as a practical part of that.'' Among the characters she plays are the Tour de France champion Lance Armstrong and doctors and patients whom Ms. Smith has interviewed around the country.
 Ms. Smith said that she had been ''blessed with good health,'' but added that she had been inspired partly by the losses of her mother, who died in 2003 after a long illness and several hospitalizations, and of her close friend Elizabeth Neuffer, a foreign correspondent for The Boston Globe who lived and worked in Bosnia, Rwanda and Iraq, where she was killed in a car accident in 2003.
 The former producer at the Public, George C. Wolfe, who directed Ms. Smith in ''Twilight'' on Broadway in 1994, commissioned ''Let Me Down Easy,'' and his successor, Oskar Eustis, had planned to mount the play in 2005-6. Ms. Smith remains very close to Mr. Wolfe, who is no longer involved with the Public. He was scheduled to direct John Guare's ''Free Man of Color'' at the Public this winter, but it was postponed for lack of funds; a spokeswoman said the Public still wanted to produce the Guare play. It is unclear if Mr. Wolfe would direct. 
 Asked if she had broken ties with the Public, Ms. Smith said: ''The Public was part of the piece's early, early development, but we decided to go a different way. There is no bitterness on my part. In this economy, we have to look for new ways of collaborating, build new relationships, and hopefully push theater into a new era that is less ghettoized, so you see people in places you wouldn't expect them to be.''
 Mr. Eustis said in an interview that the proposed earlier production of ''Let Me Down Easy'' at the Public was put off ''because things weren't quite ready and we couldn't come to a happy place about producing it that season.'' While the Public did not compete with Second Stage for the project this year, Mr. Eustis said, there was no ill will between the Public and Ms. Smith.
 ''I have a long and very productive history with Anna,'' Mr. Eustis said, ''and I'm delighted the play is going to Second Stage. Exactly the right thing is happening with the piece.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anna Deavere Smith has changed theaters in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ELLEN MARK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); RWANDA (52%); IRAQ (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



306 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Triumphing Over Long Odds to Succeed at School and in Life

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
Before the economy collapsed and thrift became a national watchword, a high school senior named Wei Huang was already scouring New York City for bargains, determined to support herself on the $10 a month she had left after she paid her rent.
 Ms. Huang, 20, one of 12 high school seniors named New York Times Scholars this year, immigrated to New York from China with her parents in 2007. But when her parents found the transition to American life too hard and returned to China last year, she decided to stay here alone, entranced by the city's streetscapes and the thought of attending college here one day.
 She found a job at a florist paying $560 a month, and a house to share in Ridgewood, Queens, for $550. That leaves $10 a month, which she spends carefully on large bags of rice, chicken leg quarters at 49 cents a pound, and whatever vegetables are cheapest. Throw in the two free meals a day at school, a student MetroCard and the unexpected kind act -- her English teacher, for instance, gave her $100 -- and she manages to get by.
 Ms. Huang describes her life with humility and exuberance, explaining how she learned English as an intern at the Museum of Modern Art and maintained a 93 average at Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day High School. 
 ''I don't know why I'm happy every day,'' she said, sitting on a hard mattress on the floor of her room, where a children's table painted with flowers serves as a desk. ''Maybe because I am surrounded by love. I have friends and teachers that treat me like I'm a family member. So I think I've made the right choice, staying here.''
 Hs. Huang's determination to excel academically despite tough financial circumstances won her a spot among this year's scholars. 
 Each scholar will receive $30,000 in aid for college, a laptop computer and a summer job at The Times, as well as access to a network of counselors and alumni who can provide advice and support in the years ahead. 
 Ms. Huang has been accepted to several colleges but has not yet decided which one she will attend.
 Of the 200 scholars who have been named since the program began in 1999, some 95 percent have graduated from or remain in colleges -- a significant achievement given the difficulties the students face, said Soma Golden Behr, the scholarship program's director. 
 This year has not been without challenges for The New York Times itself. The paper's own money troubles led it to cut the number of scholarship recipients this year to 12 from 20, making the students' selection from among some 1,400 applicants particularly hard. The scholarships are financed by the New York Times Company Foundation, an endowment created primarily by the Starr Foundation and reader donations.
 ''We've had to pare down costs, and further cuts are under consideration,'' Ms. Golden Behr said. ''But it is especially uplifting at a difficult time like this to do something nice for these kids.''
 Chosen by a panel of editors, reporters and educational consultants, this year's scholars reflect the varied demographic landscape of the city. Six are immigrants: from Russia, Ghana, Nigeria, Vietnam, China and Guyana. Three are the children of immigrants: from the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Israel. 
 Their stories are diverse, but almost all share a common thread: a parent at home who stressed to the students from an early age that education was the best way out of tough circumstances. 
 Sylvia Boryga, the mother of one of the scholars, Andrew Boryga, came to New York from Puerto Rico when she was 17, becoming the first person in her family to attend college. Two of her five siblings died in drug-related violence. 
 ''Now, my own firstborn, he is going to college,'' she said in an interview in the family's Bronx apartment. 
 Andrew Boryga's father left when Ms. Boryga was pregnant with twins, leaving Andrew at 5 years old with adult-level responsibilities. By age 10, he picked up his younger sisters from school and even attended parent-teacher conferences. 
 ''It had its down sides,'' Mr. Boryga said, ''but I actually, I like it. It helped me because it made me independent. In the long run, it really helped out.''
 Mr. Boryga, 18, is ranked fourth out of 201 students at Mount St. Michael Academy in the Bronx and has been accepted to Cornell. 
 Another scholar, Angel Contrera, also said he was inspired by his mother, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic who never finished middle school. She has two jobs, cleaning Yankee Stadium during baseball season and a health club year round. One of his older brothers is in jail, but Mr. Contrera, who has been accepted at the University of Pennsylvania, is ranked first in a class of 209 students at the Frederick Douglass Academy in Manhattan.
 ''People in my school were always being supportive,'' Mr. Contrera said. ''Telling me you can succeed if you just plan it and do it properly.'' 
 Carrie Montgomery of the South Bronx is the 8th of 10 children of a single mother who never finished high school and struggles with osteoarthritis and other ailments. Ms. Montgomery, who managed to maintain a G.P.A. of 95.6 at the Bronx School for Law, Government and Justice, was recently accepted at Columbia.
 Her goal is to become a lawyer, write an autobiography and find a way to inspire other young people like herself. When she got the call from The Times telling her she had won a scholarship, she was speechless. 
 ''I thought: Wow. This is reality,'' she said. ''I am really going to go to college.'' 
 Many of the scholars said they found refuge in their studies, turning to books to alleviate the stress of being laughed at as an immigrant with poor English, or the strain of watching their families fall apart.
 Alenadreale Banton, 16, a self-proclaimed tomboy who earns spending money as a coach at a Y.M.C.A., kept her grades high despite a custody battle between her parents that at times landed her in foster care. At the Bronx High School for Medical Science, she and her friends started a study group called the No Nonsense Nerds.
 ''I just had a space inside of me that nothing can influence,'' she said. ''Just jumped into my books and studied and ignored whatever else was going on. It has affected me, but not as much as it could have.'' 
 Mentors and friends encouraged the students to believe that there would somehow be a way to pay for college, even if their families' bank balances hovered near zero. Taking them at their word required as much of a leap of faith as it did an act of willpower.
 Francis Oppong, 19, who came from Ghana speaking heavily accented English in 2005 and is now first in his class and class president at the High School for Service and Learning in Brooklyn, explained it this way:
 ''One thing my father tells me all the time, and I tend to believe it, is that in this country, as long as you are doing well and you are performing in school, there are always people who recognize you and try to help,'' he said.
 The other scholars are: Amar Ramroop of Queens, who attends Hillcrest High School in Queens; Darya Slavina of Brooklyn, who attends James Madison High School; Ismael Xique of Manhattan, who attends Saint Agnes Boys High School in Manhattan; Natalie Alberman of Queens, who attends Forest Hills High School; Phan Ha of the Bronx, who attends the Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics; and Oluwanifemi Mabayoje of the Bronx, who attends Bronx Health Sciences High School.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 8 about the 12 high school seniors named New York Times Scholars this year referred imprecisely to the amount of college scholarship money awarded to each student. It is up to $30,000 over four years, not exactly $30,000. (The exact amount depends on other financial grants and scholarships the students receive.)
An article on April 8 about the 12 high school seniors named New York Times Scholars this year referred imprecisely to the amount of college scholarship money awarded to each student. It is up to $30,000 over four years, not exactly $30,000. (The exact amount depends on other financial grants and scholarships the students receive.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Back row: Ismael Xique, Alenadreale Banton, Angel Contrera, Francis Oppong, Amar Ramroop, Andrew Boryga. Front: Oluwanifemi Mabayoje, Darya Slavina, Wei Huang, Carrie Montgomery, Phan Ha, Natalie Alberman.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



307 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Fell in February

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing plunged in February at a 3.5 percent annual rate, more than analysts had expected, as Americans cut back their use of credit cards by a record amount. 
 The Federal Reserve said Tuesday that consumer borrowing dropped at an annual rate of $7.48 billion in February from January, which amounts to a 3.5 percent annual rate of decline. Wall Street economists expected borrowing to slide by only $1 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. 
 The decline was led by a record drop in borrowing on credit and charge cards, which fell at an annual rate of $7.8 billion, or 9.7 percent. That is the sharpest drop in dollar terms since federal records began in 1968, and the steepest percentage fall since 1978.
 The report shows consumers reluctant to increase spending as employers cut millions of jobs in a recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



308 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2247 words

HEADLINE: Firm Acted as Tutor and Adviser When Selling Towns Risky Deals

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

DATELINE: LEWISBURG, Tenn. 

 BODY:
Five years ago, this small factory town was struggling to pay the interest on a bond for new sewers. Bob Phillips, Lewisburg's part-time mayor and full-time pharmacist, was urged by the town's financial adviser, an investment bank named Morgan Keegan & Company, to engage in a complex financial transaction to lower interest rates. 
 When a Lewisburg official attended a state-sponsored seminar intended to lay out the transaction's benefits and risks, he was taught by investment bankers from Morgan Keegan.
 And when Lewisburg decided to go ahead with the transaction, who was there to make the deal? Morgan Keegan. 
 In January, local officials were shocked to discover that annual interest payments on the bond had quadrupled to $1 million. Morgan Keegan, they said, did not serve them well in any of its roles.
 ''We're little,'' Mr. Phillips said, ''and we depend on people wiser than us in financial ways to keep us informed, tell us what things mean, and I really didn't think we got that.'' 
 Lewisburg is one of hundreds of small cities and counties across America reeling from their reliance in recent years on risky municipal bond derivatives that went bad. Municipalities that bought the derivatives were like homeowners with fixed-rate mortgages who refinanced by taking out lower-interest, variable-rate mortgages. But some local officials say they were not told, or did not understand, that interest rates could go much higher if economic conditions worsened -- which, of course, they did. 
 The municipal bond marketplace was so lightly regulated that in Tennessee Morgan Keegan was able to dominate almost every phase of the business. The firm, which is based in Memphis, sold $2 billion worth of municipal bond derivatives to 38 cities and counties since 2001, according to data compiled by the state comptroller's office. 
 After The New York Times made inquiries, the Tennessee comptroller, Justin P. Wilson, ordered a statewide freeze on bond derivatives and a review of the seminar taught by Morgan Keegan and others.
 Representatives of Morgan Keegan pointed out that they saved cities and counties money for years by delivering lower interest rates, and that the economic decline that created the turmoil in the bond market was beyond their control. Moody's credit rating agency on Tuesday issued a negative outlook for the fiscal health of municipal governments. 
 In Washington, federal regulators are now considering ways to restrict the use of municipal bond derivatives. Regulators and some in the industry are challenging whether it is appropriate for large investment banks to engage small cities and counties in transactions that lower interest rates but carry higher risks. 
 ''When these sophisticated things were created, most people didn't think they'd ever be used by the smallest issuers, who had the least amount of resources and knowledge and experience to understand the risks,'' said Thomas G. Doe, the chief executive of Municipal Market Advisors, a bond strategy company in Concord, Mass.
 In Lewisburg, the fallout from the bad bonds confronted the city of 11,000 people at an inopportune moment. Unemployment just nudged past 10 percent, businesses like Penny's Home Cooking are shuttered, and a sprawling new corporate park sits mostly empty. A nearby employer, Sanford Pencil, the maker of Sharpie pens, is preparing to move to Mexico.
 Unlike most states, Tennessee was one of the few where the legislature passed a law intended to regulate the sale of these complicated municipal bond derivatives to local governments. But the profusion of those deals and the various roles of Morgan Keegan have left leaders of those cities and counties furious at both the firm and the state.
 In Claiborne County, north of Knoxville, officials said they were recently told by Morgan Keegan bankers that extracting themselves from a municipal bond derivative would cost $3 million, a sum the poor county cannot afford. 
 ''I told the Morgan Keegan man here in my office, 'It seems to me, you are all trying to slip paperwork by us like a small, shady loan company,' '' said Joe Duncan, the mayor of Claiborne County. 
 An Unpleasant Surprise
 In Mount Juliet, a suburb east of Nashville, city leaders were surprised to discover that the payments on its bonds had increased by 500 percent to $478,000. Morgan Keegan offered to refinance the bonds, but the city hired a new financial adviser and another investment bank. 
 ''We decided we needed advice from someone who was not trying to sell us something,'' Mayor Linda Elam said.
 Mr. Wilson, the state comptroller, told a State Senate finance committee two weeks ago that his office was examining the guidelines on municipal bond derivatives, including the ''swap school'' taught by Morgan Keegan and the Nashville law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims, which often served as the bond counsel. 
 An investment bank makes more in fees and annual income from derivatives than from fixed-rate bonds. Morgan Keegan has made millions of dollars in fees in Tennessee since 2001, but the precise number is not public.
 ''I think the multiple roles of a single firm is something we should look at, and there well may be limitations or prohibitions,'' Mr. Wilson, who became comptroller in January, said in an interview. In hindsight, he said, it ''may not have been the best idea.''
 Municipal bond experts say they know of no other state where a firm was allowed to wear three hats; several states prohibit a single firm from acting as both adviser and underwriter. In Pennsylvania, which has such a prohibition, federal prosecutors are investigating accusations that investment banks and financial advisers conspired to sell bonds with inflated fees to school districts.
 ''It's like the lion being hired to protect the gazelle,'' Robert E. Brooks, a municipal bonds expert and a professor of financial management at the University of Alabama, said of the situation in Tennessee. ''Who was looking after these little towns?'' 
 Morgan Keegan said local officials were unfairly blaming them for the economic downturn. ''People are upset; we're upset, too,'' said Joseph K. Ayres, the firm's managing director. ''We've been very successful helping a lot of communities try to weather this storm. Obviously, there are going to be a few disappointments. People are going to look to find a scapegoat. We're big boys and girls. We understand that.''
 Mr. Ayres denied that the firm had a conflict in advising municipalities and underwriting bond derivatives. He said that Morgan Keegan had taught the seminar at the request of the state and that they had offered unbiased descriptions of municipal bond options. He added that the firm had not marketed products during the sessions.
 ''I don't think the course was skewed at all,'' Mr. Ayres said. ''It was designed to deal equally with risk and reward. The course was approved by the state comptroller's office.'' 
 Karen S. Neal, a lawyer at Bass, Berry & Sims, said the comptroller's office had strictly monitored the seminars. ''There was certainly no intent that they be biased one way or the other,'' Ms. Neal said. ''The intent was purely to educate people on the process, the mechanics, the legal requirements, the risks and the benefits.''
 Increasing Risk
 For decades, the tax-exempt municipal bond was considered as safe a way to raise money as it was to invest money. If a city wanted to build a bridge, a hospital or a school, it raised the money by issuing a bond and repaid investors over decades. Bonds were considered conservative and dependable.
 Beginning in the late 1970s, big states like California began to use variable rate bonds as a way to save money. By the late 1990s, some rural counties and small towns jumped on board as a way to avoid raising taxes. 
 Not long afterward, interest rate swaps were introduced. 
 A swap allowed a municipality to keep a portion of its debt at a fixed interest rate and a portion at a variable rate. The municipality was, in effect, betting that interest rates would move in its favor. Investors protected themselves by taking out insurance that guaranteed they would be paid. But as the nationwide credit market collapsed, most of the bond insurers' credit ratings were downgraded, including the Ambac Financial Group, the primary insurer of Tennessee bonds. That allowed the investors to accelerate the retirement of the debt, usually from 20 years to 7, leading to a steep increase in the interest rate. 
 Although such a provision was in the swap contract, several local officials said that possibility had not been explained to them. 
 The risks of the transactions were, in fact, on the minds of members of the Tennessee legislature in 1999, when they passed a law requiring a municipality to follow several procedures before receiving authorization from the comptroller to enter a swap agreement.
 Even with those regulations, the comptroller approved all 215 swap applications submitted in the state since 2001. ''Tennessee was an unwitting conspirator in this whole mess,'' said Emily Evans, a Nashville City Council member and former bond trader who was a critic of her city's swap deal on the bond for the Tennessee Titans' stadium. 
 One of the most important provisions of Tennessee's law was education. In 2000, the state comptroller at the time, John G. Morgan, appointed nine government and industry representatives to establish guidelines for derivatives and devise a curriculum for the swap school. The panel included two lawyers from Bass, Berry & Sims and a Morgan Keegan banker. 
 Mr. Morgan said he had asked business professors to teach the course, but they had declined. ''So the job was left for the people who know the most about these intricate transactions -- the people in the business,'' he said. ''I didn't think there was a problem.''
 State records show that the comptroller's office approved course material submitted by Morgan Keegan and Bass, Berry & Sims. In 2007, the comptroller approved a 300-page course book in two days, the records show.
 In a 177-page book used in 2003 and reviewed by several bond experts for The Times, there was far more about rewards than risks. On a page titled ''Interest Rate Swap Risks'' for example, there is no mention of the consequences of a downgrade in the bond insurer's rating. Ms. Evans said the daylong seminars, held in Memphis, Nashville and Knoxville, amounted to ''nothing more than an infomercial.''
 The first page of a manual used at a 2007 seminar quotes the former Fed chairman Alan Greenspan extolling the virtues of derivatives in 1999.
 Peter Shapiro, the managing director of Swap Financial Group of South Orange, N.J., said the material ''certainly doesn't have what we would consider the requisite amount of detail going through the risks, how they materialize and how you might attempt to mitigate them.''
 Sheila Luckett, the city recorder in Mount Juliet, attended the swap school twice. ''It was way over my head,'' she said. ''I'm not a bonds person. People with Morgan Keegan told me, 'Don't worry if you don't understand it.' ''
 A 'Good Thing' Goes Bad
 In many corners of Tennessee, the first anyone heard of interest-rate swaps was from C. L. Overman, a vice president of Morgan Keegan who assured officials that the deals carried little risk, city and county officials said. 
 ''He told us it would be a good thing and there wasn't much downside,'' said Mayor Duncan of Claiborne County. He then laughed, adding, ''When everything went belly up, of course, they told us it wasn't their fault.''
 Earlier this year, Claiborne County officials were told by Mr. Overman that they had only a few weeks to refinance an $18 million bond or pay a quadrupled quarterly payment of $700,000. Mr. Overman declined to comment for this article.
 In Lewisburg, after Mr. Overman pitched the swap idea for the sewer project, Kenneth E. Carr, a city official, attended the class. ''The seminar was dull and boring,'' said Mr. Carr, who still has a copy of the book, stamped with the state seal of Tennessee on every page. ''I thought, 'Well, this is approved by the state because they put their seal of approval on it. This must be something they think is good for us.' '' 
 Mr. Carr said he had not known the course would be taught by the bank and the law firm involved in Lewisburg's deal. ''It would have been better if someone neutral had taught the course,'' he said. Even so, he said the officials making the decision never asked his opinion after the session.
 Connie W. Edde, Lewisburg's finance director, said she had assumed the city would reject the proposal because ''it was a big risk.'' But hours before the City Council was to meet on the plan, Ms. Edde said, she saw the city's superintendent for water and sewage return from lunch with Mr. Overman. The superintendent ''announced that he decided this was now a good idea.'' That evening, the plan passed. 
 Mr. Ayres, the Morgan Keegan managing director, pointed out that Lewisburg had benefited from a relatively low interest rate of 2.5 percent, a rate that did not include the firm's fees. 
 This year, with residents facing a 33 percent increase in water and sewer rates, the city decided to refinance the bond, dropping Morgan Keegan and hiring another financial adviser. Mayor Phillips said the city would use fixed rate debt on its new bonds. ''Nothing that says derivative, nothing that says swap,'' he said. ''We learned our lesson.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOB PHILLIPS: The mayor of Lewisburg, Tenn., where bond derivatives saddled the town with enormous interest payments as the economy soured. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) MAP Lewisburg, Tenn. found interest payments had quadrupled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



309 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor Tries to Undo a Potential Hurdle to U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
Kevin Johnson has been a name around town since his days as a high school basketball standout, through his years as an N.B.A. All-Star and now as this city's first black mayor. 
 But just a few months into his new job at City Hall, Mr. Johnson's past leadership of a local nonprofit group has become an unexpected distraction. Some fear that problems with the group could cost the city millions of dollars in federal stimulus money.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Johnson and his lawyer were trying to persuade federal authorities to reverse a sanction against the mayor by the Corporation for National and Community Service, which oversees nearly $1 billion in federal grants to service and volunteer groups. 
 In September, before Mr. Johnson took office, the corporation put him on an ''excluded parties list,'' barring him from receiving federal money. An investigation by the corporation's inspector general had uncovered a variety of violations, including improper use of money and personnel, stemming from Mr. Johnson's work as the founder and chief executive of St. HOPE, which focuses on community redevelopment and received more than $800,000 in federal AmeriCorps grants from 2004 to 2007. 
 At a news conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Johnson said the investigation had not cost the city ''one cent'' of federal money. 
 He added, ''I would never do anything to put this city in jeopardy.''
 A mayoral spokesman, Steven Maviglio, said Mr. Johnson had not had an official role with St. HOPE since stepping down last summer to concentrate on his campaign for mayor. 
 The investigation by the inspector general, Gerald Walpin, found that as director of St. HOPE, Mr. Johnson had used AmeriCorps members to perform personal errands, including driving him and washing his car. Mr. Johnson also used AmeriCorps money to pad the salaries of two St. HOPE employees, according to a letter to Mr. Johnson outlining the sanctions against him.
 The investigation also revealed that the St. HOPE organization had used AmeriCorps members to campaign for Sacramento school board candidates, the letter said. 
 ''This improper conduct is indicative of either a fundamental lack of understanding of how to administer federal grant funds and policy or the inability to do so,'' the letter read. 
 In November, the United States attorney's office here cleared Mr. Johnson of any criminal charges, although a spokeswoman, Lauren Horwood, said a civil case was still a possibility.
 But the city attorney, Eileen M. Teichert, has asked that the impact of Mr. Johnson's suspension be reviewed for fear that it could hold up millions of dollars in potential stimulus money for Sacramento.
 The city is struggling with a surge in unemployment and a high-profile homeless problem. Citing attorney-client privilege, Ms. Teichert would not comment on the review's findings.
 In a letter to the corporation last week, Mr. Johnson's lawyer, Matthew G. Jacobs, asked that the suspension be lifted.
 ''The idea that somehow these regulations were supposed to apply to a private individual or bar an entire public entity or the Sacramento region on the basis of the private activities of an individual who just happened to become mayor strains credulity,'' Mr. Jacobs said.
 Although Mr. Johnson had admitted that he and St. HOPE had made mistakes, Mr. Jacobs said, the facts did not support some of the accusations. 
 ''I think Kevin has admitted that St. HOPE, as far as the record-keeping went, could have done it a little better,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''But that's really all we're talking about. It's not unusual for a small nonprofit not to spend all their time working on documenting every single move they make.'' 
 Mr. Johnson said Tuesday that he was cooperating with the inspector general in the continuing investigation. 
 In 1989, shortly after he turned pro, Mr. Johnson, now 43, founded St. HOPE in his old neighborhood, Oak Park, a blue-collar district just southeast of the Capitol. St. HOPE's stated mission is to ''revitalize inner-city communities through public education, civic leadership, economic development and the arts.''
 It has been praised for its work at Mr. Johnson's long-suffering alma mater, Sacramento High School, which the group effectively took over as a charter school in 2003. 
 Since then, the school's college acceptance rates and test scores have improved. Mr. Johnson opened a St. HOPE charter school in Harlem last year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Before Kevin Johnson became the mayor of Sacramento, his role at a nonprofit led to a sanction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CITIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (70%); SCHOOL BOARDS (70%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CORP FOR NATIONAL & COMMUNITY SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: KEVIN JOHNSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



310 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Slideshow: Hard Times In Ukraine
 A slide show on the economic downturn's disastrous effect on Ukraine' s steel belt, where about 80 percent of the country's economy is tied to the metals industry. 
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: WHAT $180,000 BUYS
 A three-bedroom house in Denver, a two-bedroom house in Richmond, Va., and a home with ocean views in Brookings, Ore. 
 nytimes.com/realestate
 AUDIO: CARS AND HOPE 
 For Sale at a G.M. Dealer
 An audio slideshow of how Ralph W. Sifford, the owner of seven General Motors dealerships, is coping with the dismal economy and G.M.'s woes. 
 nytimes.com/national
 SLIDESHOW: MADE IN N.Y.C.
 A series of images shows a local company that builds almost 300 cedar tanks a year and can erect one in a single day. The latest installment of the Lens series by the photographer Richard Perry. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 VIDEO: SHEPHERD FOR STUDENTS
 John Votta, a 67-year-old volunteer crossing guard, is in the street every school day, shouting at drivers and telling N.Y.U. students when to cross the street and when to wait. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: FRANK BRUNI ON CO.
 At the new restaurant in Chelsea, Co. from Jim Lahey of Sullivan Street Bakery, crust is king. 
 nytimes.com/dining
 Q&A 
 Seder Hotline
 Diner's Journal readers had Passover questions -- many more than four. Luckily, Joan Nathan, an expert on Jewish cooking, has answers.
 nytimes.com/dinersjournal
 DealBook
 Putting a Price 
 On a Car and Driver
 Perks Watch, a feature by Michelle Leder, takes a look at Macy's proxy statement to see how much it costs a company to provide its senior executives with a car and driver. 
 nytimes.com/dealbook
 Green Inc.
 Renewable Energy 
 And Antarctica
 At Antarctica's first research station powered by renewable energy, Jeffrey Marlow, a master's student in environmental science, chronicles his experiences. 
 nytimes.com/greeninc
 SLIDESHOW: I WANNA ROCK
 Photographs and a past article about the new Broadway show ''Rock of Ages,'' a jukebox musical with songs from hair bands of the 1980s, including Night Ranger and Poison. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 Times Topics
 Anna Deavere Smith
 Past coverage of the playwright, who is trading her longtime theatrical home in New York -- the Public Theater -- for Second Stage Theater, where her new production, ''Let Me Down Easy,'' will open this fall. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 Opinion
 Proof
 Last Call
 Far-flung dispatches from 
 the drinking lives of four contributors.
 nytimes.com/proof

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); THEATER (84%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); PASSOVER (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); BAKERIES (65%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); MUSIC (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); DRAMA LITERATURE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



311 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: The Need to Fix Medicare

 BODY:
To The Editor:
 Re ''Doctors Are Opting Out of Medicare'' (Retirement section, news article April 2): 
 Thirty percent of Medicare patients who were looking for a new primary care physician say they had trouble finding one, and more of the elderly may find themselves in this situation unless Congress permanently reforms the broken Medicare physician payment system.
 Every year, Congress must step in at the 11th hour and reverse planned cuts brought on by a system that ties payments to the economy instead of the health care needs of the elderly. 
 No doubt the uncertainty that physicians feel each year about whether Congress will stop the cuts has contributed to the decision by some physicians to already stop or limit care to Medicare patients. 
 Congress has a unique opportunity this year -- with a 21 percent pay cut planned for 2010 -- to solve the problem and ensure that physicians are able to care for current and future generations of the elderly. 
 The president paved the way to permanent reform of the Medicare physician payment system in his budget outline. We have called on Congress to also accurately forecast future Medicare spending on physician services so it can adopt a system that ties payments to the cost of care.
 Joseph M. Heyman Board Chairman American Medical Association Chicago, April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



312 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Mets Going for the Gold (And Silver and Platinum)

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
For the past six seasons, the Mets have marketed their games according to the sizzle of the opponents, and which day and month the games are played. Tickets are priced by tier: Bronze games, for example, are against weaker teams like the Pirates; platinum games, the most expensive, are on opening day and against the Yankees. The better the metal, the more costly the ticket.
 This year, with a new stadium as an extra draw, the Mets not only raised ticket prices 8.6 percent, they also moved more games to costlier tiers. When the tier system was introduced in 2003, there were only 17 gold games. Now there are 30. The number of games in the bronze and value categories has fallen to 28, from 43. For this season, nearly two-thirds of the Mets' 81 home contests are classified as silver, gold or platinum games. As recently as 2005, only 44 percent of the team's home games were in these tiers. Games that were in the value or bronze categories in years past have been upgraded to silver and gold this year, including night games next week against the San Diego Padres and weekend games against the Washington Nationals in September. 
 David Newman, the Mets' senior vice president for marketing and communications, said that the tier inflation was based on the team's improvement in the standings over the past few years and the high demand to see the new ballpark, which has more amenities than Shea Stadium yet 15,000 fewer seats.
 About half the major league clubs have variable ticket prices, but the Mets have more tiers than any other team and have fiddled with them more from season to season. They charge more for games against more competitive opponents like the Cubs and the Phillies, and for games played in summer months. Weekend games generally cost more than weeknight games. A field box seat for platinum games at Citi Field costs $175. The same seat for a value game against the Florida Marlins on an April weeknight is $75.
 As the recession deepens, the Mets are going against the trend. Ten teams cut their ticket prices this season, and another six teams left them unchanged or raised them by less than 1 percent. Another four teams raised prices by less than the leaguewide average of 5 percent, according to the Team Marketing Report, which compiles the Fan Cost Index. In effect, the Mets' average ticket prices went up more than 8.6 percent because the Team Marketing Report includes only nonpremium seats in its calculations. 
 Yet the price increases and inflated tiers do not seem to be hurting sales. The team is on pace to sell twice as many individual game tickets this season compared with last year, when accounting for the smaller ballpark, Newman said.
 He also cited research that showed that fans chose games based on whom the Mets were playing and on what date. Fans surveyed after the Chicago Cubs introduced variable pricing a few years ago said the most important factor in their choosing a game was the opponent, followed by the time and day of the game, and the weather. The price of the ticket ranked fourth.
 ''Variable pricing is a reflection of what consumers will pay,'' said Dan Migala, the director of the Graduate School of Sports Business at Northwestern University and the author of the survey. ''It's variable, so it's open to change and fluctuates based on the number of reasons a fan would buy a ticket.''
 The Yankees have never had variable ticket pricing. But the team offers discounts for fans who buy tickets in advance or as part of a season-ticket plan.
 ''The Yankees think people are coming to see the Yankees and not the visiting club,'' said Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman for the team. ''People are coming to see the stadium, too. It's just a different view.''
 A variety of teams, though, price tickets in tiers the way the Mets do. The Toronto Blue Jays have four levels of tickets, including 19 ''super premium'' games -- on opening day and when the Yankees and the Red Sox visit. Another 18 weekend games have premium status.
 The rest of the tickets are regularly priced, including four games on Tuesdays being promoted as ''Messin' With Recession'' nights, when fans get tickets for as little as $5, hot dogs for $1 and discounted merchandise.
 The Blue Jays increased ticket prices by 6.5 percent, a decision the team made several months before the financial crisis fully took hold last September. The team may turn premium games into value games next season.
 The number of premium games versus value games is ''the right balance if you take the economy out of it,'' said Jason Diplock, the Blue Jays' vice president for ticket sales and service. But ''the economy definitely throws a wrench in our plans.''
 Most teams have fewer tiers of ticket prices than the Mets and the Blue Jays. The Milwaukee Brewers have only so-called marquee games against the Chicago Cubs and the Minnesota Twins. The Twins charge more for games against the Brewers, the Yankees and the Red Sox.
 The Padres, who cut ticket prices 27 percent, have only four premium games, including opening day and three Saturday games against the Cubs, the Dodgers and the Mets. Against some weaker teams, fans can get two tickets for the price of one, and discounts for tickets purchased before game day.

GRAPHIC: CHART: MORE PREMIUM GAMES: The Mets began their variable ticket prices -- based on the opponent, time of year and day of the week -- in 2003. Since then, the number of premium games (silver, gold and platinum) has increased significantly. (Source: Mets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TRENDS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



313 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Sleepless Nights For Hotel Investors

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
In San Francisco, prices of hotel rooms have ''gone off a cliff,'' said Karl Hoagland, chairman of Larkspur Hotels and Restaurants. Softening demand has led some luxury hotels to offer rooms for less than $100 a night. 
 ''It's a great windfall for travelers,'' said Mr. Hoagland, whose company owns three hotels in the city's Union Square neighborhood. 
 But it is anything but a windfall for Mr. Hoagland. His company paid about $100 million for the three hotels, in 2006 and 2007. ''It was a pretty big bet on San Francisco,'' he said.
 He devoted $22 million more to renovating the buildings. The last of the three, the 94-room Hotel Abri, began welcoming its first guests in September. The next month, Mr. Hoagland said, the bottom fell out of the market.
 In February, the occupancy rate for hotels in San Francisco was only 57.7 percent, compared with 69.9 percent in February 2008, according to Smith Travel Research. At the same time, the average price paid for a room was $127.59, down from $156.16 a year earlier
 Mr. Hoagland said he had hoped to average more than $200 a night for a room at his three hotels. The actual average is under $150, he said. ''We haven't seen signs that second quarter is going to be any better,'' he said.
 Mr. Hoagland said he was able to meet his monthly payments to his lender, Merrill Lynch, because his interest rate, which floats, is currently around 2 percent. Low rates, he said, ''saved our bacon.'' 
 But his loans come due in 2012. ''We have about three years to see if things will turn around,'' he said.
 Many hoteliers do not have the luxury of time. Rick Swig, a hotel consultant based in San Francisco, predicts that many hotels owners in his area will begin missing loan payments this year.
 Already, he said, ''the vast, vast majority of hotels that were either bought or significantly refinanced after 2004 are in some level of technical default with their lenders right now.'' Technical default, he said, means the owners can no longer meet the loan-to-value ratios or debt-service-to-value ratios required by their loan agreements.
 But technical default is likely to give way to true default if revenue does not increase. For many hotels, he said, ''the burn rate on cash is just ridiculous. You start to say, 'I'm digging myself in a hole, and I'm not going to be able to dig out.' ''
 ''At some point, people just run out of money,'' he said. For many hoteliers, he added, ''that's going to happen in the next 30 to 60 days, unless something radical happens.'' 
 Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said that several domestic markets, including San Francisco, ''have a large percentage of hotels with operating deficits.'' But, he added, ''nationally in 2009 the hotel industry will remain profitable.''
 Mr. Swig may not see any of that profit himself. He has invested in hotels only rarely, he said, preferring to focus on advising hotel companies through his firm, RSBA & Associates. But three years ago, Mr. Swig said, he took a 3 percent stake in a partnership that owns a Sheraton hotel in Pleasanton, Calif., about 40 miles southeast of San Francisco.
 In the last year, occupancy has dropped off significantly, he said, as some businesses in the Pleasanton area have closed and others have instituted sweeping cutbacks. ''Everyone's in austerity mode,'' Mr. Swig said. As a result, he said, revenue at the Sheraton for February was off more than 40 percent from February 2008. 
 Recently, the hotel's Web site was offering rooms for as little as $59.20. The partnership, AG Inn at the Mall, which had borrowed $12.2 million from Mesa West Real Estate Income Fund L.P., found itself unable to extend the loan on terms that it could afford. In January, Mesa West declared the partnership in default. Since then, Mr. Swig said, the partnership has been ''in conversation'' with the lender, hoping to work things out.
 Mr. Hoagland, by contrast, barely knows which lender to have a conversation with. That's because after Merrill Lynch lent him the money, it securitized the loans, selling them to other institutions as investments. ''It's the exact profile of what was happening all over,'' he said.
 As a result of the securitization, he said, ''nobody owns your loan. There's nobody to talk to if you have issues, if you want to work something out.'' He added, ''The people you do talk to aren't in a position to make decisions, because the loan's been sliced and diced.''
 But Mr. Hoagland considers himself lucky. He obtained his loan in 2007, when banks were eager to lend money. An investment bank held an auction, in which some 30 institutions or so ''competed very aggressively for the business,'' he said. As a result, he got a loan from Merrill that floats only 150 basis points -- 1.5 percentage points -- over the 30-day London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a benchmark that is currently around 0.5 percent. 
 If he had to obtain new financing now, he said, his payments would be significantly higher.
 Coming up with that money by increasing hotel revenue would be almost impossible now, he said. Though he has tried to keep room rates above $150, competitors are undercutting him. ''There is no discipline in the market,'' he said. ''When demand drops, hotels get very promotional very fast.''
 ''The Internet is a big part of it. If you're an individual general manager, you can open the Expedia spigot, offering rooms for well under $100. And everybody starts to follow suit.''
 For the individual hotel, he said, ''it's a rational thing to do.'' But for the market over all, he added, it is devastating.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Villa Florence Hotel with Kuleto's Restaurant, one of three San Francisco hotels owned by Larkspur Hotels and Restaurants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW ISSUES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



314 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: The Tonic for an N.C.A.A. Tournament Hangover

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Let the N.C.A.A. tournament hangover begin. After a month of hype and excitement, of brackets filled out and torn up, of alternately serenading and bashing poor Cinderella, we are left pretty much where we started: with North Carolina claiming a title they were supposed to win. Roy Williams got all humble in that Carolina accent, but nobody forgets that Goliath just won. 
 So, reach for the Alka-Seltzer or delay the hangover with a shot of Geno Auriemma, because there is another N.C.A.A. title up for the taking tonight. Auriemma's Connecticut team plays Goliath to Louisville's David, perhaps an even tinier David than Michigan State was. 
 At some point, analysis of the men's coronation, um, title game, must come and there are analyzers aplenty. Pat Forde of ESPN.com argues that the Tar Heels' road was not quite as easy as it looks in retrospect, and SI.com's Seth Davis said the answer to your first question -- how did North Carolina prevail? -- is Ty Lawson. There are plenty of rose petals being thrown at Tyler Hansbrough, who gets the last smirk as described by Jason King of Yahoo. Williams gets his due credit from Gregg Doyel of Cbssports.com, particularly for his pre-game grace when Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo forgot to shake his hand.
 ESPN's Andy Katz said Michigan State gave the Final Four some charm and some grit before the Spartans got knocked silly, looking more like a panel of auto executives before Congress.
 One thing North Carolina did not accomplish was snaring the next Jordan (Michael's second son Marcus), who committed to Central Florida on Monday.
 His dad's North Carolina days were harkened back to in a gripping commercial featuring the legendary coach John Wooden reading a poem. It is possible to watch and forget it's a commercial for a syrupy sports drink.
 Chances are, you'll have a chance to see it again tonight during the women's championship game, one that ESPN hopes is far more suspenseful than the men's. ESPN.com's Mechelle Voepel makes the argument that Louisville will not play Mondale to UConn's Reagan.
 Taking shots at Goliath was the big theme of baseball's opening day, with lots of glee lavished on the failure of the Yankees in their debut against Baltimore. Not that this is anything terribly unusual, but the Yankees' roughly gazillion-dollar payroll is earning them an even higher rate of scorn in our era of economic collapse. Foxsports.com's Ken Rosenthal writes, ''For one day, and probably only one day, Baltimore's Camden Yards was transformed from the funeral home of a bumbling franchise to the raucous center of a populist rebellion,'' and he argues that this could be economic therapy because we can't boo A.I.G. executives daily.
 Opening day held plenty of other highlights, nicely rounded up by MLB.com, and Foxsports.com gives us a rundown of what we learned in one day. 
 USA Today tells us that the Yankees' ballooning payroll bucks the trend of teams cutting back, and gives a complete database of player salaries. 
 If that feels way too much like doing your taxes (if your W-2 showed major league-like income), instead revel in the story of opening day's unlikely hero, Emilio Bonifacio, who lit up the Marlins' bleak landscape with an inside-the-park homer, the first on opening day since 1968.
 Texas, meanwhile gave us something truly unusual, a warm welcome for former President George W. Bush as he threw out the first pitch for the Rangers, an excuse for us to link to videos of a few of the worst first pitches ever, by a Cincinnati mayor and a T-Rex.
 The N.B.A. was probably happy to take a seat way in the back of the sports bus on Monday because its biggest news was Manu Ginobili's season-ending injury, that effectively kills San Antonio's playoff chances, says Foxsports.com's Charley Rosen. And the N.H.L. counters with the sobering idea that former player Keith Primeau plans to donate his brain to science to help with research on concussions, the injury that ended his career.
 Be thankful that most of us just have a headache.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); BASEBALL (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); WOMEN (61%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (66%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); MARYLAND, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



315 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2808 words

HEADLINE: Newark's Portuguese Community Keeps Fires of Tradition Burning

BYLINE: By DAVID LEITE

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 FRANK ALEXANDRE was so excited to make his point that he hip-checked a table out of the way as he lurched toward the photograph on the wall. ''Olhe! Olhe!'' he said in his native Portuguese. (''Look! Look!'') 
 The picture, hanging in the Casa de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro, a social club (named after the desolate region in northeast Portugal) in the Ironbound section of this city, shows a clutch of sun-pummeled stone buildings, the roofs crenulated with scrub, the road thick with dust. 
 ''This building here is the cookhouse,'' said Mr. Alexandre, owner of a local auto repair and towing company, pointing to an imposing windowless stone structure pictured atop a hill. ''There are four or five stone ovens inside.'' He explained that in times gone by, the residents of the village in the photograph would forage for scraps of wood, build a fire in the ovens and cook communally: hotter fires roasted meats and baked breads while cooler embers burbled stews and braises and coddled eggy desserts. Families then divided the food and trekked home to dine.
 ''That,'' he said, tapping the picture, ''is how we survived.'' 
 Nearly six decades after that photograph was taken and half a world away in Ironbound, where 25 percent of the population is of Portuguese descent, the tradition of communal cooking and eating remains -- especially during Pascoa, or Easter.
 ''Last Easter I sold about 120 whole lambs, 60 kid goats and almost as many suckling pigs,'' said Herminio Lopes, who owns the Lopes Sausage Company in Newark, one of the area's most popular meat suppliers (he has also shipped sausages to the White House). 
 He explained that because home ovens can't always accommodate a whole animal, the Portuguese-preferred way of roasting, many animals are brought to restaurant kitchens, where they are marinated or massaged with a customer's own rub, then roasted and either enjoyed in the dining room or taken home. Other people dress the roasts themselves and cook them outdoors in hand-built brick ovens. 
 On a ride through the city and nearby Elizabeth, Mr. Alexandre pointed out small backyards co-opted by hulking ovens -- the Portuguese equivalent of the American charcoal grill -- in which, he said, it wasn't unusual for one cook to roast not only his own family's Easter dinner but those of several neighbors.
 In the early 20th century, waves of immigrants from Portugal and the Azores settled in the Ironbound district, and by the 1920s the community had its first social club along with churches and retail stores lining Ferry Street, the neighborhood's noisy thoroughfare. 
 Midcentury saw another boom, which was eclipsed in the '70s and '80s by immigration from former Portuguese colonies, including Brazil and Cape Verde. Although the Luso population has decreased because of relocation to the wealthier suburbs and restrictions on immigration, most Portuguese families in the area still cleave to the Catholic church, religious festivals and feasts. 
 Despite the economy, preparing whole animals remains a booming enterprise for rogue roasters, who turn a tidy profit. ''We have several people in the area who cook for a fee,'' said John Panneta, a tour guide who introduces groups to the Ironbound's social, gastronomic and cultural pleasures. ''Most of them cook from their backyards and deliver it to your house.'' 
 A different business model of roaster-for-hire is Valenca, a restaurant in Elizabeth run with precision by its owner, Martinho Pereira. His crew cranks out several hundred roast suckling pigs during the holiday season for in-house customers, catered events and families who prefer to dig into their pig in the privacy of their own dining room. 
 When asked what secret ingredients make his pork so popular, Mr. Pereira laughed and shrugged as if to say, ''What secret?'' Like most Portuguese roasts, his suckling pigs are coated with nothing more than lard, garlic, salt and black and white pepper. 
 Recently, at the Newark home of Antonio and Magda Araujo, Mr. Alexandre and his wife, Maria, cooked up a lamb feast. But instead of cooking it whole, they had Mr. Lopes butcher it to show off two Easter favorites -- borrego assado (roasted legs of spring lamb) and guisado de borrego (lamb stew). The scene, as Mrs. Araujo described it, was typically Portuguese: ''loud and fast.''
 ''Everything is better with olive oil!'' Mrs. Alexandre shouted as she rubbed some into the lamb legs. Mr. Alexandre countered with voluminous and rapid-fire requests for bowls, pans and cutting boards. Their frantic pas de deux continued, and they dipped and spun to avoid elbows and sharp knives as they whirred garlicky pastes in the food processor, peeled potatoes and dressed the meat. In under 45 minutes, four pans along with a flan were ready for the stove. Ervilhas com ovos, a staple of peas and bacon topped with poached eggs, would be made right before dinner.
 Mr. Alexandre is no stranger to the kitchen, as he's proud to announce, having won several contests at the social club for his folar, a traditional Easter bread that in Tras-os-Montes is stuffed with cured meat. 
 ''I made the mistake of teaching one of the young men from the Azores how to make it,'' he said, ''and that year he won.'' Mr. Alexandre is determined to win back his title this year.
 A short time later, half a roast suckling pig from Valenca and both lamb dishes were nestled in the center of the table. Potatoes, rice, bread and the egg-topped peas filled the gaps. Around the table sat 10 hungry guests. 
 Dinner was suddenly interrupted by the bleating of Mr. Alexandre's cellphone. A Portuguese woman was stranded on the highway and called for a tow. He stood up, popped another chunk of lamb into his mouth, and shrugged on his jacket.
 ''Got to take care of our own,'' he said, heading for the door. ''It's how we survive.''
 Recipe: Lamb Stew Time: 2 hours, plus at least 2 hours' marinating
 Time: 2 hours, plus at least 2 hours' marinating
 1 6-pound bone-in lamb shoulder; bones removed and cut into 3-inch pieces, rinsed well and reserved, or 3 pounds boneless lamb shoulder (see note)
 3 ounces chicken livers
 5 garlic cloves, minced
 3 bay leaves
 1 tablespoon sweet paprika
 1 1/2 cups dry white wine
 4 tablespoons olive oil, or as needed
 Coarse salt
 Ground white pepper
 1 yellow onion, cut crosswise into thin half-moons
 2 cups beef stock
 3 sprigs flat-leaf parsley, chopped, more for serving (optional)
 Boiled red potatoes, cooked white rice for serving (optional).
 1. Cut lamb and chicken livers into 1 1/2-inch chunks, and place in a glass, stainless steel or other nonreactive bowl. Add garlic, bay leaves, paprika, 1/4 cup wine, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 2 teaspoons salt and 1/2 teaspoon white pepper. Mix well. Cover and refrigerate at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.
 2. When ready to cook, heat remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat. When oil shimmers, add bones and sear until well-browned, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a plate. If pan is dry, add a bit more oil. Working in batches, add lamb mixture and sear, turning occasionally, until edged with brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
 3. Lower heat to medium, add onion and saute until limp, about 10 minutes. Add lamb and any juices, the bones, remaining 1 1/4 cups wine, beef stock and parsley. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and cover. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until lamb is tender, about 1 1/2 hours; if liquid level becomes low, add water as needed. Season with salt and pepper.
 4. Remove and discard bones and bay leaves. If a smooth sauce is desired, transfer lamb to a bowl, cover and keep warm. Strain and discard solids from liquid. To serve, spoon stew into shallow bowls. If desired, accompany with boiled peeled red potatoes or long grain white rice drizzled with olive oil and sprinkled generously with minced parsley.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Note: Ask butcher to bone shoulder, cut bones into pieces and remove excess fat. Three pounds of lamb is needed; if necessary, add boneless shoulder.
 Recipe: Peas With Poached Eggs Time: 20 minutes
 Time: 20 minutes
 6 ounces thick-cut slab bacon, sliced crosswise into 1/4-inch pieces (see note)
 1 yellow onion, diced
 1 tablespoon white vinegar
 4 to 6 large eggs
 3 cups (about 1 pound) frozen baby peas, thawed
 1 medium tomato, seeded and diced
 Coarse salt
 Ground white pepper
 1 tablespoon minced parsley, for garnish.
 1. In a large skillet over medium heat, saute bacon until crispy-chewy, about 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels. Reduce heat to low and add onion to skillet. Saute in bacon fat until golden brown, about 10 minutes. 
 2. Meanwhile, fill a deep skillet with 3 inches water and add vinegar. Place over medium heat and bring to a bare simmer. Break an egg into a 1/3-cup measuring cup and gently tip into water. Repeat with remaining eggs. Poach to taste, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon, transfer to a plate and trim neatly. Cover and keep warm.
 3. Add peas to skillet with onions and toss until warmed. Add tomato and bacon bits, and season with salt and pepper.
 4. To serve, transfer pea mixture to a warmed serving bowl. Make an indentation in peas for each egg, nestle in eggs and sprinkle with parsley. Instruct guests to scoop peas onto their plates and crown with an egg.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Note: For a smokier flavor, reduce the amount of bacon to 3 ounces and add 3 ounces diced chourico.
 Recipe: Flan With Tea Time: 1 1/2 to 2 hours, plus 3 hours' chilling
 Time: 1 1/2 to 2 hours, plus 3 hours' chilling
 2 cups whole milk
 2 tablespoons strong-flavored tea leaves, like Lapsang souchong 
 2 cups sugar
 6 large eggs, at room temperature
 1 large egg yolk, at room temperature.
 1. Heat oven to 325 degrees. Fill a kettle of water to bring to a boil. In a small saucepan, combine milk and tea leaves. Place over medium-low heat and bring to a bare simmer; remove from heat and allow to steep until deeply infused, about 10 minutes. Strain into a bowl, discard solids, and allow to cool until just warm.
 2. In a small saucepan, combine 1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water. Place over medium heat without stirring until sugar melts and begins to take on a bit of color. Do not stir; instead, swirl pan occasionally. Continue to cook until mixture is dark maple-syrup brown and has an aroma of caramel, 10 to 15 minutes. Carefully pour into a 1 1/2-quart flan mold or metal baking dish (such as an 8-inch square baking pan), tilting pan to coat sides and bottom. Set aside.
 3. In a mixing bowl, combine eggs, yolk and remaining 1 cup sugar. Stir until sugar is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Slowly stir in the milk mixture until blended. Pour into flan mold, and set mold in a small roasting pan. Place in oven and pour enough boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up mold.
 4. Bake flan until set around edges but slightly jiggly in middle, 45 minutes to 1 hour 15 minutes, depending on oven, and size and depth of mold. Remove from water bath and place on a work surface to cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until well chilled, about 3 hours.
 5. To serve, run a sharp knife around inside edge of pan. Place a deep plate on top and flip. Remove mold, and serve.
 Yield: 8 servings.
 Recipe: Lamb Stew Time: 2 hours, plus at least 2 hours' marinating
 Time: 2 hours, plus at least 2 hours' marinating
 1 6-pound bone-in lamb shoulder; bones removed and cut into 3-inch pieces, rinsed well and reserved, or 3 pounds boneless lamb shoulder (see note)
 3 ounces chicken livers
 5 garlic cloves, minced
 3 bay leaves
 1 tablespoon sweet paprika
 1 1/2 cups dry white wine
 4 tablespoons olive oil, or as needed
 Coarse salt
 Ground white pepper
 1 yellow onion, cut crosswise into thin half-moons
 2 cups beef stock
 3 sprigs flat-leaf parsley, chopped, more for serving (optional)
 Boiled red potatoes, cooked white rice for serving (optional).
 1. Cut lamb and chicken livers into 1 1/2-inch chunks, and place in a glass, stainless steel or other nonreactive bowl. Add garlic, bay leaves, paprika, 1/4 cup wine, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 2 teaspoons salt and 1/2 teaspoon white pepper. Mix well. Cover and refrigerate at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.
 2. When ready to cook, heat remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat. When oil shimmers, add bones and sear until well-browned, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a plate. If pan is dry, add a bit more oil. Working in batches, add lamb mixture and sear, turning occasionally, until edged with brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
 3. Lower heat to medium, add onion and saute until limp, about 10 minutes. Add lamb and any juices, the bones, remaining 1 1/4 cups wine, beef stock and parsley. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and cover. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until lamb is tender, about 1 1/2 hours; if liquid level becomes low, add water as needed. Season with salt and pepper.
 4. Remove and discard bones and bay leaves. If a smooth sauce is desired, transfer lamb to a bowl, cover and keep warm. Strain and discard solids from liquid. To serve, spoon stew into shallow bowls. If desired, accompany with boiled peeled red potatoes or long grain white rice drizzled with olive oil and sprinkled generously with minced parsley.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Note: Ask butcher to bone shoulder, cut bones into pieces and remove excess fat. Three pounds of lamb is needed; if necessary, add boneless shoulder.
 Recipe: Peas With Poached Eggs Time: 20 minutes
 Time: 20 minutes
 6 ounces thick-cut slab bacon, sliced crosswise into 1/4-inch pieces (see note)
 1 yellow onion, diced
 1 tablespoon white vinegar
 4 to 6 large eggs
 3 cups (about 1 pound) frozen baby peas, thawed
 1 medium tomato, seeded and diced
 Coarse salt
 Ground white pepper
 1 tablespoon minced parsley, for garnish.
 1. In a large skillet over medium heat, saute bacon until crispy-chewy, about 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels. Reduce heat to low and add onion to skillet. Saute in bacon fat until golden brown, about 10 minutes. 
 2. Meanwhile, fill a deep skillet with 3 inches water and add vinegar. Place over medium heat and bring to a bare simmer. Break an egg into a 1/3-cup measuring cup and gently tip into water. Repeat with remaining eggs. Poach to taste, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon, transfer to a plate and trim neatly. Cover and keep warm.
 3. Add peas to skillet with onions and toss until warmed. Add tomato and bacon bits, and season with salt and pepper.
 4. To serve, transfer pea mixture to a warmed serving bowl. Make an indentation in peas for each egg, nestle in eggs and sprinkle with parsley. Instruct guests to scoop peas onto their plates and crown with an egg.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Note: For a smokier flavor, reduce the amount of bacon to 3 ounces and add 3 ounces diced chourico.
 Recipe: Flan With Tea Time: 1 1/2 to 2 hours, plus 3 hours' chilling
 Time: 1 1/2 to 2 hours, plus 3 hours' chilling
 2 cups whole milk
 2 tablespoons strong-flavored tea leaves, like Lapsang souchong 
 2 cups sugar
 6 large eggs, at room temperature
 1 large egg yolk, at room temperature.
 1. Heat oven to 325 degrees. Fill a kettle of water to bring to a boil. In a small saucepan, combine milk and tea leaves. Place over medium-low heat and bring to a bare simmer; remove from heat and allow to steep until deeply infused, about 10 minutes. Strain into a bowl, discard solids, and allow to cool until just warm.
 2. In a small saucepan, combine 1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water. Place over medium heat without stirring until sugar melts and begins to take on a bit of color. Do not stir; instead, swirl pan occasionally. Continue to cook until mixture is dark maple-syrup brown and has an aroma of caramel, 10 to 15 minutes. Carefully pour into a 1 1/2-quart flan mold or metal baking dish (such as an 8-inch square baking pan), tilting pan to coat sides and bottom. Set aside.
 3. In a mixing bowl, combine eggs, yolk and remaining 1 cup sugar. Stir until sugar is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Slowly stir in the milk mixture until blended. Pour into flan mold, and set mold in a small roasting pan. Place in oven and pour enough boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up mold.
 4. Bake flan until set around edges but slightly jiggly in middle, 45 minutes to 1 hour 15 minutes, depending on oven, and size and depth of mold. Remove from water bath and place on a work surface to cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until well chilled, about 3 hours.
 5. To serve, run a sharp knife around inside edge of pan. Place a deep plate on top and flip. Remove mold, and serve.
 Yield: 8 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'OLIVE OIL!': Frank Alexandre, top, makes lamb stew for Easter in Newark. Left, a dish of baby peas with bacon and tomatoes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (89%); EASTER SEASON (86%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MEATS (72%); FAMILY (71%); RETAILERS (64%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) PORTUGAL (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



316 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Magazines Wink At a Wall

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
If the separation between magazines' editorial and advertising sides was once a gulf, it is now diminished to the size of a sidewalk crack.
 Recent issues of Entertainment Weekly, Esquire, Time, People, ESPN the Magazine, Scholastic Parent & Child and other magazines have woven in advertisers in new ways, some going as far as putting ads on their covers.
 In a medium like television, a partnership with advertisers is nothing surprising -- look at how often plastic bags and containers from Glad are featured on ''Top Chef.''
 But in magazines, the editorial and advertising sides have stayed distinct, largely because of the American Society of Magazine Editors. The society hands out the annual National Magazine Awards, and its guidelines govern how editorial content and advertising should be kept separate. Cover ads are prohibited. 
 ''Everyone has to be able to tell the difference between advertising and editorial, and if you can't tell there's a difference, there's a problem,'' said Sid Holt, chief executive of the American Society of Magazine Editors.
 But in this recession, when magazines are losing advertisers, the lines between advertising and editorial content are blurring -- with few repercussions from the society.
 ''ASME's only real sway over editors was always the ability to essentially say you would not be eligible for the National Magazine Awards,'' said Susan Lyne, the chief executive of the luxury firm Gilt Groupe, who until last year was the chief executive of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. ''And in a climate like this, I think people are really weighing what's more important to them: being eligible for the National Magazine Awards or making their budgets.''
 The recent group of advertiser-sponsored projects vary in how far they push the society's guidelines.
 At one end is a ''black-and-white violation of the ASME guidelines,'' as Mr. Holt put it, in which Scholastic Parent & Child placed an ad on its April cover. 
 Executives of Scholastic Inc. defended their choice. Risa Crandall, vice president of Scholastic Parents Media, said she had sold advertising for every remaining 2009 cover, and expected a 10 percent increase in ad revenue this year because of the cover ads.
 Elimination from the magazine society's awards was ''not a big consideration for us,'' said Nick Friedman, editor in chief of the magazine. 
 The society has not yet publicly commented on several other potential missteps, like a cover design from ESPN the Magazine. The April 6 issue has a fold-out flap over half of the cover with the words, ''You wouldn't settle for an incomplete cover.'' Pulled back, the flap reveals an ad for Powerade.
 ''We're certainly conscious of industry standards, and in retrospect, did we push the envelope a little bit on this one? Maybe,'' said Gary Hoenig, the general manager and editorial director of ESPN Publishing. ''But we keep looking for ways to help our advertisers out, so we're not going to be unwilling to listen if there's an interesting idea.''
 Entertainment Weekly turned its April 3 cover into a pocket that contained a pull-out ad for the ABC show ''The Unusuals,'' after ABC requested an original ad to promote the series.
 ''All media brands have been challenged to come up with more creative solutions to advertisers' needs,'' said Scott Donaton, the magazine's publisher. ''The ad was separate and distinct from the cover. It was not part of the cover. We don't believe it crossed ASME guidelines in any way.''
 Entertainment Weekly also participated in a special section that ran in five magazines published by the Time Inc. division of Time Warner -- Time, Entertainment Weekly, Fortune, People and Sports Illustrated -- in their late March issues. Opening with a page labeled ''Promotion,'' the section said: ''Time Inc. presents the 3-D Explosion.''
 What followed was a mix of editorial content and advertising. Entertainment Weekly and Time included editorial photos and coverage of the DreamWorks Animation movie ''Monsters vs. Aliens,'' mixed with ads from Hewlett-Packard, McDonald's, Intel and RealD. 
 The advertisers were all ''Monsters vs. Aliens'' sponsors, and some of their ads included the same movie characters that were shown in the editorial material. Time, Entertainment Weekly and People ran cover lines promoting the section. And the ads and some editorial content were produced in 3-D (glasses were included with the issues).
 Paul Caine, president and group publisher of Time Inc.'s style and entertainment group, which includes People and Entertainment Weekly, said that the project was developed after a Time Inc. editor overheard the DreamWorks chief executive, Jeffrey Katzenberg, speak about the future of 3-D technology.
 ''We have no financial relationship with him at all,'' he said of Mr. Katzenberg, though all of the section's advertisers were ''intimately involved in the release'' of the movie.
 ''It's just like any other edit piece: it's got ads, and it's got edit,'' Mr. Caine said. ''We absolutely believe that this execution is going to meet, and has already met, all of ASME's guidelines.'' 
 David Granger, the editor in chief of Esquire, a Hearst magazine, included advertisers in cover compositions he produced for February and May, which the magazine society said it did not object to. The February issue had an image of President Obama with a peel-back window featuring an advertiser, the Discovery Channel. And May's shows ''mix and match'' covers -- readers can put Mr. Obama's chin with George Clooney's nose and Justin Timberlake's eyes -- with the flip side of the images showing History Channel ads.
 When he and his publisher began working on the projects, Mr. Granger said, ''we came to an agreement on certain principles, and one was that there had to be real, viable reader benefit to any of the things we did.'' He said that other cover treatments, like ESPN's and Entertainment Weekly's, ''are pure advertising iterations.''
 ''They don't really do anything to enhance the editorial,'' he said.
 If the board of the American Society of Magazine Editors decides a magazine has violated its standards, the next step is for the society to write a letter.
 ''They're not severe consequences,'' said Peggy Northrop, a board member of the magazine society and the editor in chief of Reader's Digest. ''We are not a regulatory body. What we can do is, we have the bully pulpit and we have the ability to withhold'' a National Magazine Award.
 But that rarely occurs.
 ''Most people respond quickly and agree that they may have made a mistake or that it was an oversight, whatever -- and they agree and don't do it again,'' Mr. Holt said.
 ''If there are repeated and willful violations, a magazine can be barred from participating in the National Magazine Awards,'' he said, and an editor's membership in the society can be suspended.
 ''That happens, I will admit, very rarely, because things don't get to that point,'' he said.
 Asked whether that was an effective deterrent -- it would seem that unless magazines repeatedly offend, they can push the boundaries as long as they are apologetic -- Mr. Holt said that the magazine society was somewhat limited in its power.
 ''What am I supposed to do, go down there and drag the editor on the street like Sonny Corleone and beat him up on the streets of Broadway?'' he said. ''We work in a collegial business, and we're not the advertising police.''
 For publishers and editors, the allure of advertising revenue may outweigh the threat of a strongly worded letter.
 ''If you focus on not being able to get an award, ultimately I think that doesn't have teeth anymore,'' Ms. Lyne said. ''I think that what does have teeth is thinking about whether this is a short-term solution that is going to end up damaging the long-term viability of your publication. And that's really what ASME should be reminding people of.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Esquire had a peel-back window featuring an advertiser.
 Magazines' approaches have included ESPN the Magazine's fold-out flap, top, and Esquire's mix-and-match cover with well-known faces, bottom.(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BUDGETS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); LUXURY GOODS (50%)

COMPANY: SCHOLASTIC INC (63%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (54%)

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (54%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



317 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Too Old for the Foster Care System, and Facing Life in the City During a Recession

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Even in boom times, young people who become too old for the foster-care system often struggle to make it on their own, lacking families, job skills or adequate educations. Now, the recession has made the challenges of life after foster care even more formidable, especially for those seeking federal housing vouchers, which are contingent on having an income.
 Since the beginning of this year, the city's Administration for Children's Services has been providing letters to those about to leave the foster care system, certifying that they are likely to be eligible for public assistance and thus easing the application process when they are ready. Yet, many child-welfare advocates worry that a growing number will still end up homeless.
 ''They get a lot of resources until they're 21, and then essentially none,'' said James J. Golden, the executive director of the Edwin Gould Academy in East Harlem, which provides housing exclusively to former foster children. ''It's like falling off a cliff for some of them.'' 
 In New York, foster children are allowed to leave the system when they turn 18 but can stay until 21; last year, 407 wards turned 21, while 547 opted out early -- 375 at age 18, and 172 at 19 or 20. 
 Once discharged from the system, some move in with family or friends, get jobs or go to college. Others apply for welfare as their sole source of income, and often end up homeless.
 Administrators at the Chelsea Foyer at the Christopher, which houses dozens of former and current foster youths, said that typically, 90 percent of their residents were employed, but that in February only 70 percent had jobs. 
 ''They are the low man on the totem pole for jobs anyway,'' said Jerome Kilbane, the executive director of Covenant House New York, a nonprofit that operates shelters for young people. ''Now they are even more at a disadvantage.''
 Michael Smith, 20, said he was increasingly anxious as he approached the day in August that he will have to leave his foster home in Brooklyn. He has been searching for work since October, leaving resumes at places like McDonald's and the clothing stores Express and H & M. 
 Mr. Smith graduated from high school in Queens in 2006 and went to Kingsborough Community College, but he dropped out after his sickle-cell anemia caused him to miss class frequently. 
 ''I'm coming up to my 21st birthday, when I'm no longer going to be supported,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I feel overlooked all the times I do go apply for these jobs. But I have to do this, or else I'll be out on the street.'' 
 Officials at the Administration for Children's Services say they do everything possible to avert that, including the letters that help smooth the application process for public assistance.
 The child-welfare agency and the 36 foster-care groups with which it contracts begin to prepare children for independence as early as age 14. There are workshops on budgeting, job hunting, how to sign up for health insurance and how to negotiate with a landlord over rent. 
 At age 19, foster youths begin to talk to caseworkers about housing options, which commonly include Section 8 vouchers, public housing projects and supportive housing, where counseling and job training might be available on site. 
 The Administration for Children's Services provides a one-time stipend of $750 as a cushion to foster youths when they exit the system. They are also eligible for a monthly payment of $300 from the city, from the time the leave foster care until they are 21 1/2, if they are not receiving any other public housing subsidy, such as Section 8.
 Most of those leaving foster care are entitled to Section 8, which typically allows tenants to rent apartments for one-third of their monthly income. But that means they need income to qualify. And with unemployment rates in New York rising precipitously, foster-care workers are worried.
 ''To be honest, I'm afraid that our youth are really going to be unable to secure housing,'' said Jane Feyder, the assistant director at the New York Foundling Fontana Center for Child Protection. ''They don't have the work experience that other people have who are looking for jobs right now. They're competing with so many other people who have advantages over them.''
 Even advocates for foster youth acknowledge that they are a particularly difficult group to employ. 
 Many lack high school diplomas, having spent adolescence being shuttled from home to home. The responsibilities of a first job can come as a shock, and many quit out of frustration. 
 ''A year ago, if they'd lose one $9- an-hour job, there was usually another one that we could find them,'' Mr. Golden said. ''Now it's a little more costly to become unemployed.'' 
 One of the former foster children in his care, Jessica Molina, landed a job in January 2008, working in computer technology at Merrill Lynch. She was laid off in June when the company downsized, and has been working at temporary jobs since. 
 ''Like everyone else, I have my fingers crossed that I'll find something,'' Ms. Molina, 22, said. But looking at the gaps in her resume, she is often reminded of the constant moves between group homes she endured during her teenage years. ''Sometimes you're looked at as a castaway,'' she said. ''It's like coming from a totally different place.''
 Brenda Tully, the program director for Chelsea Foyer at the Christopher, said residents have been laid off or seen their hours reduced at jobs in gyms, nightclubs and clothing stores. 
 ''There's a much greater fear among the young people about what to expect,'' Ms. Tully said. ''They are very, very concerned that they're not going to be able to find housing that's affordable.'' 
 Stephany Diaz, a housing specialist for New York Foundling, one of the city's largest foster-care agencies, said she has begun prodding youths to apply for public assistance once they are officially discharged from care. 
 ''I used to discourage them to go down that route,'' she said. ''But now we almost have to.''
 Since 2002, the Administration for Children's Services has tried to move teenagers out of group homes and into foster care, hoping that when the time comes to leave, the children would have families to turn to. 
 ''We want children to leave care with a loving, caring and supportive adult who's going to continue to work with them long past their 21st birthday,'' said Lorraine Stephens, a deputy commissioner at the Administration for Children's Services. ''We don't want any kid to leave without someone connected to them.'' 
 But many children have tenuous connections to foster families, at best. 
 Mr. Smith, whose aunt is his foster parent, said staying with her after his 21st birthday is not an option. ''She's moving in with her boyfriend,'' he said. 
 Melissa Diaz, 19, left the foster care system more than a year ago, shortly after her foster mother died. Ms. Diaz later moved to Covenant House, and after nearly three months of searching found a job stocking shelves at Duane Reade. 
 She is training to become a nursing assistant and trying to earn enough money to become independent and afford housing on her own. ''That would be great,'' she said. ''It would be a blessing from God.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melissa Diaz, 19, left the foster care system and is living in a shelter for young people while training to be a nursing assistant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael Smith will turn 21 in August, and his foster care benefits will expire. He has been searching for work since October.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (96%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



318 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Instead of Falling Into a Rut, Busting Out a New Groove

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Channing Sanchez, who lost his job in January, has found a way to mix business with pleasure.
 Mr. Sanchez, 51, was a jewelry salesman at Tiffany & Co., on Fifth Avenue, for 23 years. After hearing what has become a familiar phrase -- ''You're being laid off'' -- he put himself on a different sort of track to future employment: he is training to become a D.J.
 ''I used to spin records 30 years ago,'' Mr. Sanchez, headset in hand, said the other day just before he began another session at a turntable. ''Now that the stress of losing my job is gone, this a fun and creative way to make some extra money.'' 
 Within minutes, Mr. Sanchez and several other aspiring D.J.'s were sliding into their stations to scratch records and mix songs at dubspot, an electronic music production and D.J. school in Manhattan, where enrollment -- now 300 -- has doubled since it opened last year, largely because of the economic downturn.
 ''I'm getting a lot of calls from people who are saying, 'I just got my severance package, and this is something I have wanted to do my whole life,' '' said Kelly Webb, dubspot's director of operations. ''In the midst of this economic crisis, some people have simply decided to go out and do what really makes them happy.''
 That description certainly fits Tom Macari, 26, who was until last month an information technology manager at Frederic Fekkai in Manhattan.
 ''I used to D.J. at parties when I was 16, and I'm still young enough to get back in the business,'' he said. ''I used to mix records and CDs, but now most D.J.'s are downloading songs from computers, which is why I needed to take this course.'' 
 Rob Principe, the founder and chief executive of Scratch DJ Academy in Manhattan, said that his company had also seen an increase in enrollment.
 ''This year as opposed to last, we are up 18 percent,'' Mr. Principe said. ''When the going gets tough, people tend to go back to things that they are really interested in doing, whether that is to pursue something like this as a hobby or as an alternate means of income.''
 Dan Giove, the president and founder of dubspot, where a five-month course costs $1,695.00, said that a D.J., depending on experience and venue, can make anywhere from $50 to $1,000 an event. 
 ''You can absolutely make a living as a D.J.,'' he said. ''In fact, we are seeing some of our students going out there and finding themselves decent-paying gigs.''
 Mr. Giove pointed to April White, a 30-year-old account supervisor at a public relations firm in Manhattan who is so worried about losing her job that she has already put Plan B in motion.
 ''I've been gigging like mad,'' said Ms. White, who has been working at bars and other event spaces around the city, including at a bar called Mr. West, where she was spinning her vinyl one evening.
 ''My company has laid off 10 percent of its staff, and all the worrying about losing my job has put me at a weird crossroads in my life,'' she said. ''I love music, and I was always the first one on the dance floor, and so I knew when D.J.'s were really killing it, or when they were totally bombing -- and I always thought I'd be pretty good at it.''
 Another dubspot student, Marcia Levine, 53, an account executive for a television network in Manhattan, recently landed her first gig. On May 1, she will work a fund-raiser at a Manhattan public school, where students from kindergarten through fifth grade will pay $20 each to hear her spin Top 40 tunes.
 ''I'm so excited,'' said Ms. Levine, who said she used to frequent Studio 54. ''I don't know what I'm getting paid, but just to know that I'll be getting some form of payment to do something I really love is a great start.'' 
 Ms. White said that even people who still have a job are wise to start thinking about another line of work -- nothing is certain these days. 
 ''What do you have to lose at this point,'' Ms. White said. ''I'm doing everything I can to hold down my job, but at least now I've created a potential exit strategy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The director of operations at dubspot said that many new students were looking for something fun to do after being laid off.
 At dubspot, from left, Marcia Levine, April White and Channing Sanchez are among those considering new careers as D.J.'s.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MUSIC (73%); WORKPLACE STRESS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (92%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (92%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (92%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



319 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Mirrors Wall St. Salaries

 BODY:
 Is Moody's Investors Service a member of the free press, or is it a Wall Street firm? If you listen to the credit rating outfit's arguments for some of the poor advice it has given investors, you would think it was a member of the Fourth Estate. But when it comes to determining executive compensation, it fancies itself among a wealthier peer group. 
 Like its rival Standard & Poor's, a unit of McGraw-Hill, Moody's uses the free speech protections of the First Amendment to shield itself from legal liability when its ratings miss the mark. It argues that ratings are not different from published opinion pieces, so investors shouldn't be allowed to go after the company if those opinions turn out to be wrong -- as they have been in rather staggering quantities over recent years. 
 Yet the assertion that the rating firms deserve the same free speech protections given to journalists doesn't seem intuitively quite right. For instance, the agencies are paid by debt issuers, analogous to a media organization's sources rather than its audience. And the rating firms' status as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations gives them a veneer of officialdom unheard of in the context of independent journalism. 
 Meantime, when it comes to executive pay, Moody's actually doesn't seem to consider itself in the same category as traditional publishers at all. 
 Moody's latest proxy statement lists 21 peers. Among these are money managers like BlackRock, equity and futures exchanges, even the Union Bank of California. There's not one newspaper publisher among the bunch, though Thomson Reuters and McGraw-Hill appear thanks to their financial data businesses. 
 Based on that peer group, Moody's chief, Raymond McDaniel, received $7.6 million in total compensation last year -- more than double what newspaper groups like Gannett and McClatchy paid their top executives.
 Maybe this will make no difference to a judge next time the firm pleads its case for protection from disgruntled investors who bought triple-A rated securities that turned toxic. But it does look as if Moody's bosses are adopting the mantle of the free press -- except when it comes to getting paid. 
 Time for Tax Changes
 Encouraging companies to take on debt is foolish. Yet, that is the effect of allowing interest payments to be deducted from profits before tax bills are calculated. 
 This tax advantage helped bring the world to the brink of crises in leveraged buyouts and commercial real estate. Many companies will go bankrupt and banks will suffer bigger losses -- making the recession deeper than it needed to be. 
 The tax deductibility of corporate interest costs is a longstanding tradition. It was part of the first taxes on profits, in 1894. The spurious justification is that interest is a business expense like any other. But it's better to consider all debt as a type of capital, like equity. The difference is that the payments made by companies to service their debt are tax deductible -- whereas dividends generally are not. 
 Companies, therefore, have an incentive to pile on debt. They're restrained only by the fear that when business slumps, they won't be able to make interest and principal payments. In the boom those fears melted away, and the cult of ''financial efficiency'' took hold. 
 The tax deductibility only added to the appeal of low interest rates. There was superhigh debt in leveraged buyouts and commercial real estate, while many companies levered up to buy back shares. Then there were debt-financed acquisition sprees. 
 All this taxpayer-financed speculation created bubbles that have now burst. Losses on corporate and commercial real estate loans originated by American banks will reach $829 billion in this cycle, according to RGE Monitor. To this should be added mark-to-market losses on corporate debt and commercial real estate securities.
 Efforts have been made to cut the tax advantages for the most highly leveraged companies. The crisis offers an opportunity for greater reform, like phasing out the tax-deductibility of interest payments, so that taxes are paid on operating profits. To make the effect on businesses as a whole neutral, corporate tax rates could be cut. 
 Of course, in a world without subsidies for debt, some groups like the private equity industry would howl in protest at the prospect. They should be ignored. 
 It may be possible to get an international consensus. The Group of 20 leaders have already come together to crack down on tax havens. Why not try to do the same for debt-driven financial engineering?
 ROB COX, RICHARD BEALES and HUGO DIXON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raymond McDaniel, Moody's chief executive, received $7.6 million in total compensation last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLISHING (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WRITERS (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (74%); FUTURES (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); BANK FAILURES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%); MOODY'S CORP (92%); UNION BANK NA (54%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



320 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Muni Bonds May Face Downgrade

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Moody's Investors Service assigned a negative outlook to the creditworthiness of all local governments in the United States, the agency said Tuesday, the first time it had ever issued such a blanket report on municipalities. 
 The report signaled how severely the economic downturn was affecting towns, counties and school districts across the nation.
 While Moody's regularly reports on the financial strength of various sectors of private industry, its analysts have in the past considered America's tens of thousands of towns and local authorities too diverse for generalizations. 
 The report suggests that the ratings of many governments could be downgraded in the coming months, something that would make it more expensive for them to borrow money to finance their operations. 
 In the most extreme cases, municipalities might default on some of their obligations, as Jefferson County, Ala., has been threatening to do for a number of months. 
 Vallejo, Calif., declared bankruptcy last year and is being closely watched to see if it will set a legal precedent that other towns could follow.
 Moody's did not report on individual cities or towns, but its overview offered a general note of caution for investors who have bought municipal bonds seeking a safe stream of income in difficult financial markets. 
 In a special report made public on Tuesday, the agency cited revenues that are falling almost everywhere as a result of the economic downturn. But it also discussed the problems some municipalities had created for themselves by using complex financial products that seemed to be saving money at first, only to send costs soaring during the credit crisis. 
 In former boom states like California and Florida, the sharp decline in housing prices is translating into falling property-tax revenue, while in towns in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, revenues are off because of the collapse of the auto industry. Many local governments in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut will lose significant revenue because they rely on the banking and financial services sectors for their tax bases. Moody's said any municipality relying heavily on tourism, gambling or manufacturing was probably at risk of feeling a pinch.
 The report suggested conflicts ahead between taxpayers struggling to keep their own households afloat and elected officials charged with balancing budgets, making their payrolls and protecting their credit ratings. 
 ''Taxpayers, worried about their own financial condition, are more resistant than ever to increasing property or other local taxes,'' the report observed. 
 The report's publication coincided with the downgrading by Moody's of the credit of the State of Illinois to the A level from double-A. Moody's said Illinois was having difficulty managing its cash, and in recent weeks had been trying to push its scheduled pension contributions into the future. The state pension fund is already seriously underfunded.
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, warned that local governments had probably lost their ability to lower their borrowing costs by linking their bonds to derivatives. Such bond packages had become popular in the last few years because they appeared to offer cities both the lower borrowing costs of variable-rate bonds and the predictability of fixed-rate bonds. But the structures broke down during last year's market turmoil, leaving some municipalities staggering under more debt than they can afford. 
 Mr. Bernanke said he was aware that some governments with low credit ratings were completely shut out of the short-term financial markets, while others were stuck with a type of derivative called interest-rate swaps that no longer made sense for them. 
 Mr. Bernanke offered his remarks in a letter to members of Congress who had asked the Fed to create a facility to breathe new life into segments of the municipal bond market that were still paralyzed. But Mr. Bernanke said municipal debt had ''unique characteristics'' that made it ''unlikely'' that the Fed could be of much help. 
 He suggested that instead, Congress could consider setting up some other form of assistance for municipalities unable to restructure or refinance their debt, like a federal bond reinsurance program.
 The bond markets took the Moody's report in stride on Tuesday, apparently because institutional investors were already familiar with the problems described. New York City brought bonds to market on Tuesday and ended up selling much more than initially planned.
 ''New York City is potentially a poster child for economic woe, but that didn't seem to bother investors,'' said Thomas G. Doe, president of Municipal Market Advisors. 
 The Moody's report ''creates headline risk and a lot of confusion for investors,'' he said, ''but it's not a sounding of the alarm for default.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SCHOOL BONDS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (57%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%); MOODY'S CORP (84%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



321 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Firm Is Charged With Selling Banned Materials to Iran

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON and WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
Prosecutors in New York have charged a Chinese businessman and his company with a conspiracy relating to the sale of sensitive materials to Iran, covert transactions that prosecutors say violated United Nations bans aimed at restraining Tehran's rocket and nuclear ambitions.
 According to an indictment unsealed in Manhattan on Tuesday, the Chinese company sold tungsten, high-strength steels and exotic metals to the Defense Industries Organization, an arm of the Iranian military, from 2006 to 2008, often using shell companies to hide the transactions. Both Defense Industries and the Chinese parent company, the Limmt Economic and Trade Company, are banned by the Treasury Department from doing business in the United States.
 The materials have many uses in long-range missiles and nuclear arms, including making engine nozzles that can withstand fiery temperatures and centrifuges that can enrich uranium into atomic fuel. The materials can be used for weapons as well as civilian purposes. 
 Many of the raw materials are specifically banned by the United Nations for sale to Iran, and the Iranian recipient is a recognized leader of the military's efforts to make advanced arms. The diversity and quantity of the sales are seen as significant, involving thousands of tons of some of the world's most sensitive raw materials. 
 Iran's missile and nuclear programs are a central global worry. Tehran is speeding ahead to enrich uranium in defiance of the United Nations Security Council and recently launched a satellite in what analysts see as an important step toward a long-range missile that can hurl warheads.
 President Obama is walking a middle path. He has struck a conciliatory tone toward Iran while asking the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, for help in halting Iran's efforts to unlock the atom and build long-range missiles.
 The 118-count indictment charges the Chinese businessman, Li Fang Wei, a Limmt executive, and the company with conspiring to conceal its transactions and with entering false information on bank transactions that went through Manhattan. The Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, announced the indictment at a news conference Tuesday. 
 All the false records involved sales between Limmt and customers not affiliated with the Iranian military. Those transactions were done with United States dollars. 
 The sales to Defense Industries are mentioned under the conspiracy charge. Although they were done in euros and did not involve United States banks, they were used in the indictment to illustrate Mr. Li's efforts to conceal his activities.
 In a memo in September 2007, Mr. Li informed Defense Industries that he would refer to the company by the name Rwiot Steel Services in shipping paperwork. That was ''not a real company name, but a false name,'' according to an excerpt of the memo provided by prosecutors. Mr. Li explained that he would use the fake name because he was ''worried that the shipment might be blocked by U.S.A.,'' according to the excerpt.
 Although the charges carry relatively light sentences -- up to a year in jail for fifth-degree conspiracy and a maximum of four years for falsifying business records -- Mr. Morgenthau said the main purpose of the indictment was to expose Iran's nuclear-proliferation efforts.
 ''What we're trying to do and what we are doing is to make every effort to prosecute the company, which is perhaps the largest supplier of weapons of mass destruction to the Iranian government,'' Mr. Morgenthau said at the news conference, ''and also to let people know that the Iranians are deadly serious about acquiring materials for long-range missiles and for atom bombs.
 ''They're making every effort to do this through deceit. We want to have transparency in these dealings so that everybody understands what the Iranians are up to.''
 Defense Industries, according to its Iranian Web site, diomil.ir, is a state-owned organization and ''one of the main affiliated subsidiaries'' of the Defense Ministry, its duties including production for and supply of Iran's armed forces. It has repeatedly been the object of United Nations sanctions.
 China has long supplied Iran with nuclear goods. It was a major atomic partner from 1985 to 1997, when intense pressure from the Clinton administration curtailed the relationship. Even so, the two countries did a lot of business. 
 In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the Bush administration announced sanctions against Chinese companies it accused of aiding Iran's missile and weapons programs.
 As for Limmt and its subsidiaries, the State Department placed restrictions on the company in 2004 and 2005, and the Treasury did so in 2006, seeking to isolate it financially. Limmt is a private company with no ties to the Chinese government, Mr. Morgenthau said.
 Limmt circumvented restrictions from 2006 to 2008 by operating through its front companies, according to the indictment.
 In one instance, in February 2007, a Limmt subsidiary billed a Defense Industries shell company 89,000 euros, or about $115,700 (dollars in 2007), for 200 graphite cylinders, Mr. Morgenthau said. And in another case, Mr. Morgenthau said, in June 2008, Limmt used the letterhead of a front company to send a Defense Industries subsidiary an invoice for 1.4 million euros, or about $1.8 million, for 24,500 kilograms of high-strength maraging steel rods.
 Mr. Morgenthau said his investigators relied on several weapons experts to assess what the companies were doing. One of those experts, Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a research organization in Washington, said the results of the investigation were a cause for concern.
 ''If exports of this magnitude are routinely going from China to Iran,'' Mr. Milhollin said in an interview, ''then it's clear that the United States has failed in its efforts to curb this kind of proliferation.''
 No one answered the phone on Tuesday at the Chinese Embassy in Washington or the Chinese Consulate in New York, and the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna declined to comment.
 The investigation resulting in Tuesday's announcement sprouted from a separate inquiry into the illegal channeling of Iranian money through United States banks. During the course of that investigation, some of the transactions between Defense Industries and Limmt came to light, Mr. Morgenthau said.
 According to the indictment, Mr. Li used his shell companies to funnel money through several United States banks, including the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, the Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and the American Express Bank. No United States banks committed any wrongdoing, Mr. Morgenthau said, because they had no way of knowing about Limmt's involvement.
 Prosecutors said they were still investigating two Chinese banks and several foreign banks for their possible roles in Mr. Li's scheme.
 Mr. Li is at large in China, Mr. Morgenthau said, adding that he planned to meet with the Chinese Consulate to discuss the situation. Mr. Li and his company are based in Dalian, in Liaoning province in northeastern China.
 ''We know where he is,'' said Adam Kaufmann, an assistant district attorney who oversaw the investigation. ''We will see what the impact of this indictment and announcement will be on his operations. One of the goals is to hopefully seek the assistance of the Chinese government in making sure he is shut down.''
 Mr. Kaufmann said Mr. Li also violated Chinese law by filing fraudulent shipping documents.
 While Mr. Morgenthau was announcing the indictment on Tuesday, the Office of Foreign Asset Control, a division of the Treasury Department, was blacklisting eight of Limmt's aliases and six Iranian entities uncovered in the investigation. Blacklisted companies are not allowed to do business with United States entities, and any assets they have in the United States may be frozen.
 This indictment was not the first time Mr. Morgenthau has stretched his jurisdiction across oceans. His office led a fraud investigation against the Bank of Credit and Commerce International that involved billions of dollars, and he once prosecuted a wealthy Venezuelan financier, along with his son and grandson, for defrauding Venezuelans of millions of dollars. He has chased money to locations like the Cayman Islands, Paraguay and Russia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert M. Morgenthau, left, the Manhattan district attorney, with Adam Kaufmann, an assistant who oversaw the inquiry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



322 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HAUPTFUHRER, BARBARA BARNES

 BODY:
HAUPTFUHRER--Barbara Barnes, 80, died peacefully on Tuesday, April 7, in Charlotte, North Carolina of a rare lung disease. She was one of the country's earliest woman directors of major corporations, including The Vanguard Group of Investment Companies and each of the mutual funds in the Group, the Raytheon Company, Owens-Illinois, Inc., The Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, Knight-Ridder, Inc., J. Walter Thompson Co. (later JWT Group, Inc.) General Public Utilities, Alco Standard Corp. 
(later IKON Office Systems) and The Massachusetts Mutual Financial Group. She was also a Trustee (and Trustee Emerita) of Wellesley College, the Markle Foundation, Salem Academy and College, the Committee for Economic Development, the Philadelphia Savings Fund Society and the Ladies Professional Golf Association. She was also an officer or trustee of many not-for-profit community organizations in the Philadelphia area. She was described by a corporate officer as "always asking the toughest questions in a velvet voice." Mrs. Hauptfuhrer was born in Greensboro, North Carolina, on October 11, 1928, the daughter of J. Foster Barnes and Myrtle Preyer Barnes. She grew up in Durham, North Carolina, where her father was director of choral music at Duke University. She was married to George J. Hauptfuhrer, Jr., on September 9, 1950, and they lived in the Philadelphia area for more than 50 years, where he was chairman of the law firm of Dechert, Price and Rhoads. She is survived by her husband, their two sons, George J. Hauptfuhrer III (wife Sally) of Atlanta, W. Barnes Hauptfuhrer (wife Cammie) of Charlotte and five grandchildren: Barbara Barnes, William Tuck, Foster Barnes, George Lawson and Dillon Robinson. Mrs. Hauptfuhrer's principal interest was her family. She traveled extensively with her husband and her family. Mrs. Hauptfuhrer graduated from Salem Academy and entered Wellesley College at age 16. She graduated with honors in 1949 from Wellesley College and was president of her class. Her honors thesis was entitled "The Changing Socio-Economic Status of Women." Wellesley's annual Scholar-Athlete award is named for her. Prior to her service as a Trustee, Mrs. Hauptfuhrer served as President of the Wellesley College Alumnae Association for three years. She received Salem Academy's first Distinguished Service Award. In Philadelphia, Mrs. Hauptfuhrer became the youngest president of the Junior League of Philadelphia and the first non-Philadelphian. Two of the projects begun under her presidency in 1958-60 remain today: Wheels, Inc. and the Junior Museum at the Academy of Natural Sciences. The Hauptfuhrers moved to Vero Beach, Florida, in 1990. In the fall of 2007 they also purchased an apartment at The Cypress in Charlotte, North Carolina. Mrs. Hauptfuhrer was a member of Huntingdon Valley Country Club (Pennsylvania), Quail Hollow (North Carolina), Roaring Gap Club (North Carolina) and John's Island Club (Florida), where she served as Vice President of the Board. For many years, she played on the Huntingdon Valley women's golf and tennis teams. She won the Roaring Gap Women's Golf championship 21 times. She was also a member of the United States Senior Women's Golf Association. Funeral services will be held on Saturday, April 18 at 2:00pm, at the Community Church of Vero Beach, where the Hauptfuhrers are members. Following the church service, a reception will be held at the John's Island Club. Graveside services will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Wellesley College, Duke University Chapel (Friends of the Chapel), The Vero Beach Community Church or the Levine & Dickson Hospice House of Hospice & Palliative Care Charlotte Region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); WOMEN (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TEA (72%); ALUMNI (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); GOLF (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); MUSIC (51%)

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (84%); DECHERT LLP (83%); IKON OFFICE SOLUTIONS INC (83%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (72%); GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (72%); VANGUARD GROUP OF INVESTMENT COS (72%); JWT GROUP INC (72%); MCCLATCHY CO (72%); JWT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); LADIES PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (84%); OI (NYSE) (72%); MNI (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS811212 COMPUTER & OFFICE MACHINE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (83%); NAICS423420 OFFICE EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (83%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); SIC5044 OFFICE EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (72%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



323 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Hints of Obama's Strategy in a Telling 8 Days

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
In eight days in Europe, President Obama has started down the road to remaking the global financial system, reinvigorating the NATO commitment to Afghanistan and Pakistan, rewriting nuclear policy, and repairing relations with the Muslim world.
 So, 77 days into his presidency, is there an emerging Obama grand strategy?
 Not yet, but that may have been the point. Pragmatic, conciliatory, legalistic and incremental, he pushed what might be called, with a notable exception or two, an anti-Bush doctrine. 
 There was no talk of pre-emption, or of the American mission to eradicate tyranny. From the Thames to the Bosporus, and at several landmarks in between, Mr. Obama barely mentioned his predecessor. But he emphasized one of their main differences: that the United States planned not only to give greater authority to international institutions that President George W. Bush often shunned, but also to embrace the creation of some new ones. Not surprisingly, these were the applause lines of his journey across the Continent.
 When he described his strategy for grappling with nuclear disarmament and countering proliferation, where some of the biggest shifts since the cold war's end appeared to be under way, Mr. Obama emphasized that treaties and legal norms could help accomplish what sanctions and military pressure had failed to achieve. In doing so, he veered toward a pre-Sept. 11 world order.
 ''This trip was more about reattaching all the cars on the train and convincing the other leaders that we're no longer headed for derailment,'' one of Mr. Obama's senior advisers said in London. 
 But of course, his pragmatic tone was born of necessity: unable to persuade important allies to follow his lead on economic stimulus or Afghanistan, he decided to settle for relationship building over immediate results.
 Looking for a grand strategy, a coordinated plan to use American power for broad goals in the world, is always risky. Anyone who tried to discern one 77 days into the Bush administration in 2001, months before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, would have gotten it completely wrong. 
 It was not until the following year that Mr. Bush declared ''fighting terrorists and tyrants'' to be the pre-eminent goal of American policy, and months later that he published a national security strategy that declared the United States would never allow the rise of a competitor that could challenge its sole superpower status. And it was not until his second inaugural, nearly two years after the Iraq invasion, that he fully articulated his doctrine that extending freedom to every corner of the earth would be the new American mission.
 Tellingly, Mr. Obama talked about taking on terrorists but not tyrants. Al Qaeda had to be destroyed, he said, but Iran, North Korea and Cuba would all be engaged. Gone was Mr. Bush's signature line that ''freedom is on the march'' or the insistence that democracy was a God-given right. In both his words and his omissions, Mr. Obama made clear that while he understood the import of secular democracy in places like Turkey, it would no longer be touted alongside iPhones and classic movies as a great American export.
 In his first stop, in London, he made no pretense of having a grand strategy for the global financial crisis. He left it to Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain to declare at the Group of 20 meeting that ''the new world order is emerging,'' and he focused instead on the fixes that the leaders were able to agree on. 
 But the real significance of the meeting was that he was welcoming China, India, Brazil and others into central, permanent roles in deciding the world economy's course, even if that made the decision-making unwieldy. 
 It was an acknowledgment, said Robert Hormats, the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, that the financial crisis ''accelerated the transition, which was already under way, in which emerging economies broadly share the power and leadership of the global economy.''
 Mr. Obama had more of a strategy in place by the time he reached NATO. In the days before the celebration of the alliance's 60th anniversary, the new administration briefed the allies on a refocused strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, one intended to halt the establishment of a sanctuary for Al Qaeda and other terror groups while downgrading the goal of turning Afghanistan into a centrally controlled democratic state.
 He found sympathy but little support. Mr. Obama was talking about new counterinsurgency tactics, a wiser combination of forceful military strikes and far more resources for nation-building, but most of his NATO partners were edging toward the exit. Their constituents, they made clear, were out of patience with the war in Afghanistan. It was when Mr. Obama turned to his vision of a nuclear-weapons-free future, during a speech in Prague, that strategic vision began to trump symbolism.
 It is a strategy based on a bet: if the United States demonstrated a willingness to sharply reduce its atomic arsenal, and if it revived treaties that would ban all signers from conducting nuclear tests or producing new uranium and plutonium suitable for bomb-making, it would be far easier to rally nations to confront Iran's nuclear ambitions and North Korea's presumed arsenal.
 Mr. Obama was embracing a concept that the Bush administration had repeatedly rejected. To counter proliferation, he argued, the United States could no longer simply ignore the fact that some countries, like Iran, were signatories to international treaties and could correctly claim a ''right'' to produce nuclear fuel.
 Mr. Bush's approach was to declare that some countries could simply never be trusted. Mr. Obama's approach is to tighten the web of treaties and amend the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to make it harder for nations like Iran to limit inspections or refuse to answer questions about suspect documents. 
 ''For me, it is a different world,'' Mohamed ElBaradei, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said in his office in Vienna on Monday. ''When was the last time you heard a president talk about moving toward zero nuclear weapons? Or fixing a nonproliferation system that is clearly falling apart?''
 He added: ''We are beginning to see a strategy. What we don't know yet is whether he can implement it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TRAINS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



324 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Trust Is Issue, Minister Tells U.S. Officials In Pakistan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Two senior American officials came under withering public criticism from Pakistan on Tuesday, with the Pakistani foreign minister saying that ''trust'' between the countries was in question, particularly over the issue of American missile attacks in Pakistan's tribal areas. 
 With the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, and the special envoy to the region, Richard C. Holbrooke, at his side, the minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, said: ''We did talk about drones, and let me be very frank: there is a gap between us.'' 
 He added, ''The bottom line is the question of trust.''
 In another sign of new strains in the relationship, the head of Pakistan's intelligence service, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, refused to meet separately with Mr. Holbrooke and General Mullen, who had requested a meeting, according to Pakistani officials and an American official, who sought anonymity because he did not want to further damage relations.
 General Pasha did attend a meeting with the two Americans and Pakistani military's chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, according to a statement issued by the press arm of the Pakistani Army after Mr. Holbrooke and General Mullen left Islamabad for India on Tuesday night.
 Mr. Qureshi singled out the issue of the remotely piloted aircraft armed with missiles that the United States used against Al Qaeda's havens in the tribal areas adjacent to Afghanistan.
 But senior Pakistani military and intelligence officers have also been deeply rankled by a public suggestion almost two weeks ago by Mr. Holbrooke and the head of Central Command, Gen. David H. Petraeus, that the powerful Pakistani intelligence agency was still supporting Taliban fighters who cross into Afghanistan to attack American troops.
 Mr. Holbrooke and General Mullen arrived in Pakistan Monday night for a one-day visit during which they planned to elaborate on the details of the new strategy laid out by President Obama to eliminate Qaeda sanctuaries in Pakistan.
 At a news conference at the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Qureshi raised his voice to admonish the two Americans. ''The terms of engagement are very clear,'' he said. ''We will engage with mutual trust and mutual respect, and that is the bottom line.''
 He added: ''We can only work together if we respect each other and trust each other. There is no other way and nothing else will work.''
 Under the new Obama policy, American officials have said, new infusions of American military and civilian aid will be carefully monitored to ensure it is spent for the intended purposes, and not diverted for other uses.
 Obama administration officials have said there will be ''no blank check for Pakistan.'' In response, Mr. Qureshi said Pakistan would ''neither accept nor give one.''
 Mr. Holbrooke said the United States and Pakistan had enjoyed a long relationship and Washington continued to back Pakistan.
 American and Pakistan officials will meet in Tokyo soon to raise funds to help Pakistan with its economic difficulties, he said. ''This is the pattern, that will continue,'' Mr. Holbrooke said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Wednesday about the Pakistani foreign minister's public criticisms of United States policy on Pakistan during a visit there by two senior American officials referred incorrectly at several points to the rank of one of those officials, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. As the article initially noted, the chairman is Adm. Mike Mullen; he is not ''General Mullen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); ARMIES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (70%); AL-QAEDA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID PETRAEUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



325 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Spends $3 Million on TV Ads

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Eight months before the election, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is unleashing the first wave of what could be biggest and most expensive political advertising campaign in the city's history. 
 Starting on Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg will release two commercials, one in English and one in Spanish, that emphasize his handling of the city's economic crisis, a theme that is expected to dominate his third-term bid. 
 The use of the commercials, set to run over the next two weeks, highlights the mayor's staggering financial edge in the race and his willingness to draw on his personal fortune to spend whatever it takes to win a third term. 
 The $3 million cost of the ads exceeds the combined spending by all of his Democratic rivals since the start of the current election cycle, in 2006. 
 And it represents nearly half of what the city's campaign finance laws allow each of his challengers to spend on the race between now and their party's primary in September.
 Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, is not accepting public financing, and therefore faces no spending limit. 
 Like his previous campaign ads, the mayor's commercials are polished spots, with the skyline as a backdrop. They feature Mr. Bloomberg, his trademark jacket and tie swapped for a casual button-down shirt, talking to ordinary New Yorkers about their financial woes. 
 ''The economy is in trouble,'' he says in the English-language commercial. ''But we can do something about it.''
 The ads are running at an unusually early stage of the mayor's race. During his last re-election bid, in 2005, Mr. Bloomberg did not broadcast commercials until mid-May. 
 The accelerated timetable suggests that his campaign is both eager to exploit a commanding lead in the polls and anxious that voters may blame the incumbent for a souring economy. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's popularity ratings hover in the mid-60s.
 ''The goal here may be less to build public support than to shock and awe a likely opponent,'' said Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group.
 The ads are running on major networks, like ABC, CBS and NBC, and popular cable channels, including CNN, MSNBC, ESPN and Lifetime. 
 Based on the amount of television time the mayor has purchased, the average New Yorker is likely to see the ads about 12 times. 
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the campaign, said that New Yorkers ''will certainly see the ad.'' But, he added, ''It will not saturate the airwaves.''
 Asked about the timing, Mr. Wolfson said: ''If it were up to me, we would have run ads a month earlier than today. This issue of jobs and the economy is one that we want to engage the public with in a conversation.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's critics sought to portray the ads as overkill.
 ''After eight years in office, they obviously feel this is necessary,'' Representative Anthony D. Weiner said. ''The question should be, why?
 ''I imagine they feel that a lot of New Yorkers are not very content about the direction the city is going. The middle class and those struggling to make it obviously need to be sold very, very heavily on the idea that Mike Bloomberg has been a good mayor.''
 A candidate for mayor, William C. Thompson Jr., the city's comptroller, said, ''As a billionaire, Michael Bloomberg believes that he is entitled to play by different rules than anyone else.''
 The English-language ad focuses on the mayor's plan to create or save 400,000 jobs, provide loans to small business and invest in infrastructure. ''We do have a plan to get through this,'' Mr. Bloomberg says. ''The city can't do everything, but we can do a lot to make it easier for the people that live in this city.''
 Playing up his reputation as a nonpartisan problem solver, the ad concludes with the Mr. Bloomberg declaring that ''my solution is built on independent leadership -- focus on the facts and real solutions. Deliver for people, not special interests, and never lose focus on what matters. Jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appearing in one of two commercials that emphasize his handling of the city's economic crisis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLOOMBERG NYC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MAYORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



326 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Australia Moves to Build High-Speed Network

BYLINE: By MERAIAH FOLEY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: SYDNEY 

 BODY:
The Australian government said on Tuesday that it would create a publicly owned company to build a national high-speed broadband network worth 43 billion Australian dollars, or $31 billion, in one of the largest state-sponsored Internet infrastructure upgrades in the world. 
 Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said the eight-year project would create up to 37,000 jobs at the peak of construction, giving a lift to the economy as retail spending slumps and mining companies cut workers amid weakening demand for Australian metals. 
 The plan is ''the most ambitious, far-reaching and long-term nation-building infrastructure project ever undertaken by an Australian government,'' Mr. Rudd told reporters.
 The government's announcement was a surprise rebuff to five private telecommunications firms, including Optus of Singapore and Axia NetMedia of Canada, which had been bidding to build a slower, less expensive network, with fiber optic cables reaching as far as local nodes, worth around 10 billion Australian dollars. 
 But Mr. Rudd scrapped those proposals in favor of a superior but more expensive network that would deliver broadband speeds of up to 100 megabits a second -- fast enough to download multiple movies simultaneously -- to 90 percent of Australian buildings through fiber optic cables connected directly to the buildings . The remaining 10 percent will receive upgraded wireless access.
 Analysts said the government-sponsored project would be the most ambitious fiber-to-the-premises network to have been undertaken by any nation and would be watched carefully by other governments considering Internet infrastructure spending as a way to stimulate growth as the global economic crisis continues.
 Britain, Canada, Finland, Germany, Portugal, Spain and the United States have all included measures to expand broadband access and to bolster connection speeds in their planned stimulus packages.
 ''Compared to what has been done elsewhere, this is quite a unique situation,'' said Laurent Horrut, a telecommunications analyst at J. P. Morgan.
 Most developed countries have relied heavily on private sector spending to upgrade their Internet networks, and those that have pledged public money have come ''nowhere close'' to the level of spending announced by Australia, he said.
 ''This will set Australia up as potentially one of the international leaders here,'' Paul Budde, an independent telecommunications analyst, said in a statement posted on his blog. ''This government understands the trans-sector approach that is needed to stimulate the digital economy.''
 The government would make an initial investment of 4.7 billion Australian dollars in the enterprise, in which taxpayers would hold a 51 percent share.
 The remaining costs would be financed by investment from private companies and the sale of infrastructure bonds. Once the network was fully operational, Mr. Rudd said, the government would sell down its interest within five years.
 Mr. Rudd's conservative opponent, Malcolm Turnbull, and some analysts criticized the plan, saying the cost of the project would most likely be passed to consumers in the form of higher Internet fees. They also questioned whether consumers would embrace a fixed-line, fiber-to-the-premises network over increasingly popular wireless services.
 Even those who agree that the proposal is both sensible and achievable said setting the right price for companies to access the network would be ''a major challenge.''
 ''A low price will discourage private investors, but a high price will discourage consumer uptake and service innovation,'' David Kennedy, research director at global advisory and consulting firm Ovum, said in an e-mail statement.
 While most analysts agree that investing in communications technology makes economies more competitive, some are skeptical about whether long-term spending on communications infrastructure will provide the short-term stimulus needed to pull countries out of recession.
 The plan fulfills a 2007 election promise Mr. Rudd made to overhaul the country's sprawling, antiquated Internet infrastructure. But the government is also holding the project up as a job-creating form of fiscal stimulus in a time when the private sector is shedding jobs faster than was expected.
 On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia cut its benchmark cash rate by 0.25 percentage point to 3 percent, its lowest level since March 1960, amid signs the once-booming economy is continuing to deteriorate. The bank has so far slashed 4.25 percentage points from the cash rate since September in a bid to stop the country from slipping into its first recession in nearly two decades.
 According to government figures released last week, retail sales fell 2 percent in February, the biggest one-month drop since the introduction of a 10 percent goods and services tax in July 2000.
 Unemployment data has also gone from bad to worse. Australia and New Zealand Banking said Monday that job advertisements in newspapers and on the Internet had dropped 8.5 percent from February to March and 44.6 percent from the year before. It warned that unemployment could exceed 8 percent by next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (57%); MINES & MINING (56%)

COMPANY: AXIA NETMEDIA CORP (58%)

TICKER: AXX (TSX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%)

PERSON: KEVIN RUDD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) AUSTRALIA (99%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



327 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Gates's Budget

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert Gates has made a credible effort to bring new discipline and focus to military spending after the unrestrained, inchoate years of the Bush administration. He has made tougher choices than his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, and shifted billions of dollars from complex systems of little use in places like Iraq and Afghanistan to weapons needed right now by troops fighting today's wars. 
 The only problem is that he did not go far enough. 
 Much is being made of his plans to cut the Air Force's F-22 fighter jet when, in fact, he wants to purchase four more of the planes, for a total of 187. Production should halt at 183. At his news conference on Monday, Mr. Gates vowed to end programs that significantly exceed their budgets or use limited tax dollars to buy ''more capability than the nation needs.'' 
 If ever there was a weapon that met these criteria, it is the F-22. It was designed for combat against the former Soviet Union and has not been used in the wars this country is actually fighting. The Air Force's new high-performance F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which begins production in 2012 and which Mr. Gates is wisely supporting, uses stealth technology to elude enemy radar like the F-22. It should be sufficient.
 We have long argued for canceling the DDG-1000 Zumwalt class destroyer, a stealthy blue-water combat ship designed to fight the kind of mid-ocean battles no other nation is preparing to wage. Mr. Gates wants to buy three of them; we think that money should be invested in better, cheaper ships like the DDG-51 destroyer, which has been the mainstay of the fleet for years and which Mr. Gates proposes to resume producing. 
 He should have cut deeper than $1.4 billion into the unproven missile defense program and gone forward with planned reductions in the size of the active-duty Navy and Air Force. He should, however, be commended for scaling back the Army's Future Combat System. 
 Scrapping wasteful weapons programs is essential, but how much better it would be if they were never built at all. The Pentagon's procurement system has so run amok that 70 percent of the weapons were over budget last year by a total $296 billion. That's real money for spending on other vital programs. Mr. Gates says procurement reform is a priority -- and it must be.
 The military needs rebuilding to recover from the strains of Iraq and Afghanistan, and it must restructure to meet today's real-world challenges. Mr. Gates made a useful down payment toward that goal with more funds for intelligence and surveillance equipment (including more drones), special forces, experts to train foreign military units and for spending on combat ships that operate in shallow waters to support ground combat. Still, half the budget goes to traditional big battle warfare programs.
 Even with much-needed plans to accelerate expansion of the Army and the Marines, Mr. Gates seems to have stayed within the budget figures announced last month: After adjusting for inflation, basic Pentagon spending will rise to $534 billion from $513 billion, with $130 billion more to pay for Iraq and Afghanistan.
 After two years in which he focused on war-fighting and left the budget mostly to his then-deputy, Gordon England, Mr. Gates has taken charge of the process. We respect his stated determination to make decisions based on what's good for the country rather than narrow political interests. Few documents are more political than budgets, however. Now it will be up to him and President Obama to stave off industry lobbyists and their Congressional allies seeking to protect cash cows and then push to do even more in the next budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (79%); FUTURE COMBAT SYSTEMS (79%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



328 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Guarding the Family Fortune

 BODY:
Last week, as the unemployment rate hit a 25-year high and nearly one in 10 Americans was receiving food stamps, 10 Democrats in the Senate joined all 41 Republican senators to cut estate taxes for the wealthiest families. The provision would funnel an additional $91 billion over 10 years to the heirs of megafortunes, money that would otherwise have been paid in federal taxes or donated to charity. 
 With economic pain and suffering on the rise, how do the senators justify a big tax cut for multimillionaires? By asserting that an estate tax cut is just what struggling Americans need. 
 Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat of Arkansas, co-sponsored the measure with Senator Jon Kyl, a Republican of Arizona. She said it was critical to creating jobs through small businesses. ''With all the money we've spent to help the economy, very little of it has filtered down to Main Street and family-owned businesses,'' she said.
 The implication is that upon the death of an owner, estate taxes typically devastate small businesses and the jobs they provide. That is swill. 
 Under today's estate tax, which is retained in both the House version of the budget and in President Obama's version, 99.8 percent of estates will never owe any estate tax. That's because the tax applies only to estates that exceed $7 million per couple or $3.5 million for individuals, and a vast majority of American families are not and never will be that wealthy. 
 Of the tiny number of estates that are taxable, almost none are small businesses. A new analysis by the Tax Policy Center found that under 2009 law, only 100 small businesses and family farms would owe any estate tax in 2011. And almost all such estates are able to pay the tax bill without having to sell business assets, according to a report by the Congressional Budget Office. The Lincoln-Kyl tax cut would raise the estate-tax exemption to $10 million per couple ($5 million for singles) and, in an even bigger giveaway to the superrich, lower the top rate from 45 percent to 35 percent. 
 That sure would enrich the heirs of America's biggest fortunes. It would not jump-start job creation on Main Street. 
 In addition to Ms. Lincoln, other Democratic senators voting for the estate tax cut were Max Baucus and Jon Tester of Montana, Evan Bayh of Indiana, Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray of Washington, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Bill Nelson of Florida and Mark Pryor of Arkansas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); FOOD STAMPS (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); CHARITIES (72%); FAMILY FARMS (71%)

PERSON: JON KYL (77%); BILL NELSON (77%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (77%); MARIA CANTWELL (58%); MARK PRYOR (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); JON TESTER (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



329 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Show Us the Ball

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I am really encouraged by President Obama's commitment to clean energy and combating climate change. I just have three worries: whether he has the right policies, the right politics and the right official to sell his program to the country. Other than that, things look great!
 Last week, House Democrats, with administration support, introduced a 600-page draft bill on energy and climate. At the center of it is a plan to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions through a complicated cap-and-trade system. These people have the very best of intentions, but I wish they would step back and ask again: Can cap-and-trade pass? Will it really work? And is it the best strategy, with all the bureaucracy it will require to monitor, auction emissions permits and manage the trading? 
 Advocates of cap-and-trade argue that it is preferable to a simple carbon tax because it fixes a national cap on carbon emissions and it ''hides the ball'' -- it doesn't use the word ''tax'' -- even though it amounts to one. So it can get through Congress. That was true as long as no one thought cap-and-trade could ever pass, but now that it might under Mr. Obama, opponents are not playing hide the ball anymore.
 In the past two weeks, you could hear a chorus of Republicans, coal-state Democrats, right-wing think tanks and enviro-skeptics all singing the same tune: ''Cap-and-trade is a tax. Obama is going to raise your taxes and sacrifice U.S. jobs to combat this global-warming charade, which many scientists think is nonsense. Worse, cap-and-trade will be managed by Wall Street. If you liked credit-default swaps, you're going to love carbon-offset swaps.''
 Some of the refrains from this song have a very catchy appeal. They could easily kill this effort. So, if the Obama team cares about the ''ends'' of a stronger America and a more livable planet, as much as the ''means,'' I hope it will consider an alternative strategy, message and messenger.
 STRATEGY Since the opponents of cap-and-trade are going to pillory it as a tax anyway, why not go for the real thing -- a simple, transparent, economy-wide carbon tax?
 Representative John B. Larson, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, has circulated a draft bill that would impose ''a per-unit tax on the carbon-dioxide content of fossil fuels, beginning at a rate of $15 per metric ton of CO2 and increasing by $10 each year.'' The bill sets a goal, rather than a cap, on emissions at 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2050, and if the goal for the first five years is not met, the tax automatically increases by an additional $5 per metric ton. The bill implements a fee on carbon-intensive imports, as well, to press China to follow suit. Larson would use most of the income to reduce people's payroll taxes: We tax your carbon sins and un-tax your payroll wins.
 People get that -- and simplicity matters. Americans will be willing to pay a tax for their children to be less threatened, breathe cleaner air and live in a more sustainable world with a stronger America. They are much less likely to support a firm in London trading offsets from an electric bill in Boston with a derivatives firm in New York in order to help fund an aluminum smelter in Beijing, which is what cap-and-trade is all about. People won't support what they can't explain. 
 MESSAGE Climate change is a real threat to a healthy planet Earth -- the only home we have. But because the worst effects are in the future, many Americans have more immediate concerns. That is why our energy policy should be focused around ''American renewal,'' not mitigating climate change. 
 We need a price on carbon because it will stimulate massive innovation in the next great global industry -- E.T. -- energy technology. In a warming world with huge population growth, clean power systems are going to be in huge demand. The scientific research and innovation needed for America to dominate E.T. the way it did I.T. could be the foundation for a second American industrial revolution, plus it would tip the whole planet onto a greener path. So American economic renewal is the goal, but mitigating climate change would be the great byproduct.
 MESSENGER The Obama administration's carbon tax spokesman -- the one who should sell this to the country -- should be the president's national security adviser, Gen. James Jones, not the environmentalists. The imposing former head of the Marine Corps could make a powerful case that a carbon tax is vitally necessary to stimulate investments in the clean technologies that would enable the U.S. to dominate E.T., while also shifting consumers to buy these new, more efficient and cleaner power systems, homes and cars.
 He could make the case that the country with the most powerful clean-technology industry in the 21st century will have the most energy security, national security, economic security, healthy environment, innovative companies and global respect. That country must be America. So let's stop hiding the ball and have a strategy, message and messenger that tell it like it is -- and make it so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CAUCUSES (72%); CARBON OFFSETS (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN LARSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



330 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 358 words

 BODY:
FINDERS KEEPERS? NO MORE The digital age has spawned a new good Samaritan, who finds a digital camera and uses the images on the memory card and a web of volunteer detectives to find the owner. 
 NO GREENING OF BIG OIL The world's petroleum giants are unconvinced by President Obama's call for a vast drive to alternative energy, and some are curtailing their previous green energy commitments. [B1.]
 BLURRING THE AD LINE Several magazines have narrowed the line between advertising and editorial content, deciding that budgets are more important than awards. Advertising. [B1.]
 BIG G.M. BONDHOLDER EXITS As talk continues to circulate about the likelihood of a General Motors bankruptcy, one of G.M.'s significant bondholders has shed the bulk of its holdings, according to a regulatory filing. [B3.]
 CAUTION ON MUNI BONDSMoody's assigned a negative outlook to the creditworthiness of all local governments in the United States, the first time it had ever issued such a report. [B1.]
 CREDIT CARD USE PLUNGES Consumer borrowing plunged in February at a 3.5 percent annual rate as Americans cut back their use of credit cards by a record amount. [B9.]
 MAN ON THE RISE AT NEWS CORP. Peter Rice, below, the newly named chairman of entertainment for the News Corporation's Fox Broadcasting, seems to be poised to ascend further in Rupert Murdoch's media empire. [B7.]
 ALCOA LOSES $497 MILLION The aluminum maker Alcoa said it had lost $497 million during its first quarter as the global economic crisis continued to erode prices and demand. [B3.]
 GOOGLE MEETS NEWS CHIEFS As news organizations demand to be paid for the Web use of their content, Google's chief, Eric E. Schmidt, met with news executives and faced only polite questions. [B6.]
 CHARGING FOR THE INTERNET A year ago, most media companies believed the formula for Internet success was to offer free content, and rake in advertising dollars. Now, executives are considering making consumers pay. [B1.]
 STEPS TO PROMOTE LENDING Japan's central bank took new steps to encourage lending and Australia cut its benchmark interest rate to the lowest level in nearly half a century. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); ALCOA INC (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



331 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Not So Green After All

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The Obama administration wants to reduce oil consumption, increase renewable energy supplies and cut carbon dioxide emissions in the most ambitious transformation of energy policy in a generation. 
 But the world's oil giants are not convinced that it will work. Even as Washington goes into a frenzy over energy, many of the oil companies are staying on the sidelines, balking at investing in new technologies favored by the president, or even straying from commitments they had already made.
 Royal Dutch Shell said last month that it would freeze its research and investments in wind, solar and hydrogen power, and focus its alternative energy efforts on biofuels. The company had already sold much of its solar business and pulled out of a project last year to build the largest offshore wind farm, near London. 
 BP, a company that has spent nine years saying it was moving ''beyond petroleum,'' has been getting back to petroleum since 2007, paring back its renewable program. And American oil companies, which all along have been more skeptical of alternative energy than their European counterparts, are studiously ignoring the new messages coming from Washington. 
 ''In my view, nothing has really changed,'' Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, said after the election of President Obama. 
 ''We don't oppose alternative energy sources and the development of those. But to hang the future of the country's energy on those alternatives alone belies reality of their size and scale.''
 The administration wants to spend $150 billion over the next decade to create what it calls ''a clean energy future.'' Its plan would aim to diversify the nation's energy sources by encouraging more renewables, and it would reduce oil consumption and cut carbon emissions from fossil fuels.
 The oil companies have frequently run advertisements expressing their interest in new forms of energy, but their actual investments have belied the marketing claims. The great bulk of their investments goes to traditional petroleum resources, including carbon-intensive energy sources like tar sands and natural gas from shale, while alternative investments account for a tiny fraction of their spending. So far, that has changed little under the Obama administration. 
 ''The scale of their alternative investments is so mind-numbingly small that it's hard to find them,'' said Nathanael Greene, a senior policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''These companies don't feel they have to be on the leading edge of this stuff.'' 
 Perhaps not surprisingly, most investments in alternative sources of energy are coming from pockets other than those of the oil companies. 
 In the last 15 years, the top five oil companies have spent around $5 billion to develop sources of renewable energy, according to Michael Eckhart, president of the American Council on Renewable Energy, an industry trade group. This represents only 10 percent of the roughly $50 billion funneled into the clean-energy sector by venture capital funds and corporate investors during that period, he said.
 ''Big Oil does not consider renewable energy to be a mainstream business,'' Mr. Eckhart said. ''It's a side business for them.''
 Shell, for example, said it spent $1.7 billion since 2004 on alternative projects. That amount is dwarfed by the $87 billion it spent over the same period on its oil and gas projects around the world. This year, the company's overall capital spending is set at $31 billion, most of it for the development of fossil fuels. 
 Industry executives contend that comparing investments in oil and gas projects with their research efforts in the renewable field is misleading. They say that while renewable fuels are needed, they are still at an early stage of development, and petroleum will remain the dominant source of energy for decades. 
 In its long-term forecast, Exxon says that by 2050, hydrocarbons -- including oil, gas, and coal -- will account for 80 percent of the world's energy supplies, about the same as today.
 ''Renewable energy is very real,'' David J. O'Reilly, the chief executive of Chevron, said in a speech in New York last November. ''We need it. It will be an essential part of the future I envision. But it's not realistic to suppose we can replace conventional energy in a timeframe that some suggest.''
 Chevron has spent about $3.2 billion since 2002 on ''renewable and alternative energy and energy efficiency services,'' according to Alexander Yelland, a spokesman. It plans to spend $2.7 billion in the three years through 2011 on a variety of projects, including a business that helps improve energy efficiency for companies and government agencies, he said.
 Despite Washington's newfound green enthusiasm, industry executives argue that replacing any significant part of the fossil fuel business will take decades, at best. Just to keep up with growth in demand for conventional sources of energy, producers will need to invest more than $1 trillion each year from now to 2030, according to the International Energy Agency. 
 ''Many of these companies see the world is changing,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and a historian of the industry. ''But the challenge for a very large company is to get critical scale. People tend to forget the scale of the energy business.''
 The world consumes about 85 million barrels of oil a day. The United States alone would require six times its arable land -- and 75 percent of the world's cultivated land -- to supply its needs with ethanol made from corn, according to calculations by Vaclav Smil, an energy expert at the University of Manitoba.
 More realistic, and modest, targets are proving tough to reach. Congress's ethanol mandate, which requires oil companies to use 36 billion gallons of ethanol by 2020, cannot be achieved, experts say, without major technological advances that are still years away. 
 To increase supplies, most companies are looking to tar sands in Canada or converting coal or natural gas into liquid fuels, technologies that emit far more carbon dioxide than conventional oil does. 
 Shell, a major investor in Alberta in Canada, says that traditional oil supplies will not be enough to meet the growth in the world's energy needs over the next half-century. In 2007, BP invested in Canadian tar sands, prompting criticism that it was ''recarbonizing'' itself. 
 John M. Deutch, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former director of central intelligence, said there was little point in criticizing oil companies without first establishing federal rules that set a price on carbon dioxide emissions. Once that happens, he said, companies will adapt their strategies.
 ''What role will oil companies play in the future in alternatives to conventional hydrocarbon? The correct answer is nobody knows,'' Mr. Deutch said. ''The important thing is for the government to establish a carbon policy. You can be absolutely confident that oil companies will pursue that, as will any other companies.'' 
 One area where companies are increasingly focused is the development of liquid fuels from plants. BP said it would soon build a demonstration plant in Florida for a type of ethanol made from plant material; Shell has worked with several firms since 2002 to develop ethanol from nonfood crops. Last year, it signed agreements with six companies, including one in Brazil, and decided to drop its other renewable efforts to focus solely on biofuels.
 ''Biofuels feels closest to our core business,'' said Darci Sinclair, a company spokeswoman. 
 Otherareas also hold significant promise for the industry, like technologies to capture carbon dioxide emissions and store them underground, and energy-efficiency programs, especially in the transportation sector. Exxon, long the most skeptical of the oil companies toward alternative energy investments, is working on long-term programs to improve fuel economy and reduce emissions. 
 In the end, many analysts say they believe that oil companies are waiting for a winning technology to emerge. Alan Shaw, the chief executive of Codexis, a biotechnology company in Silicon Valley that works with Shell, said oil companies were not blind to the new political reality but they were also in the business of making a profit. 
 ''Don't lose heart with Big Oil,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''They aren't at a point where they are ready to invest yet, but they are getting there. I think in the next 10 years, they will invest hundreds of times more than they have in the past 10 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REX W. TILLERSON: Chief executive of Exxon Mobil (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANEESH BAKSHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
DAVID J. O'REILLY: Chief executive of Chevron (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Royal Dutch Shell is freezing its investments in wind, solar and hydrogen power, and focusing its alternative energy efforts on biofuels. Above, a hydrogen fuel pump in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Most of the investments by oil companies go to traditional fossil-fuel resources, including carbon- intensive energy sources like tar sands, above, and natural gas from shale.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF McINTOSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); BIOFUELS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); OIL SANDS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (90%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID J O'REILLY (74%); REX W TILLERSON (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



332 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: On CBS, Dogmatic Packer Yielded to Easygoing Kellogg

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In obvious ways, Clark Kellogg is the antithesis of Billy Packer, the man he replaced as the lead college basketball analyst on CBS: charming, humorous, optimistic and not the least brusque.
 Packer was dogmatic. Kellogg is easygoing.
 Packer's verbiage was unadorned. Kellogg has his own lexicon.
 Packer was a chatterbox brimming with analysis and opinion. 
 Kellogg is a more engaging, friendlier personality, but not nearly as analytical.
 Kellogg's work in the Final Four and particularly in the Michigan State-North Carolina men's championship game Monday night brought out his endearing assets, but also exposed a blind spot in analyzing defenses.
 Through all three games, Kellogg settled too easily when he assessed defenses and did not routinely zero in on player matchups. He waited beyond the halfway point in the first half to identify North Carolina's man-to-man defense against Michigan State. Analysts need to be first-guessers who suggest options for inbounds plays before passes are thrown and who are willing to criticize coaches' decisions. In this, Kellogg seemed too reluctant.
 Kellogg is fluid in describing offensive plays, but he needed to offer prescriptions for the issues he raised. If Michigan State had to choke off the Tar Heels' 3-point shooting Monday night, what did they have to do? And why did the Spartans fail to do it?
 He waited until the second half to say why the North Carolina point guard Ty Lawson was so successful at stealing the ball, but why was there no Telestrator to demonstrate his skills at anticipating where passes were headed? Kellogg called it ''tracing the ball.'' Show it!
 When Kellogg called North Carolina's defense ''really solid,'' what did he mean? How did Roy Williams's team stop Michigan State's dribble penetration and how did the Tar Heels so successfully steamroll the fast-paced attack that defeated Connecticut on Saturday? Why had the Spartans been so savvy at throttling Connecticut's A. J. Price?
 All questions that demanded more than the general answers Kellogg often gave.
 Sometimes, as he discussed what Michigan State had to do to come back from its early double-digit deficit against North Carolina, Kellogg leaned too much on what the Spartans had to do offensively but did not detail what they had to do defensively. Did Coach Tom Izzo have to shift Michigan State from man-to-man to a zone? Did he have the right players in the man defense?
 Viewers could see how far out on the perimeter the Spartans had been pushed on offense; what was North Carolina's defense doing?
 Kellogg and his partner, Jim Nantz, were a little more willing to attribute the blame for Michigan State's woeful offense and ball-handling to its players' inexperience and their need to please their economically devastated state than to the defense that was tying them up.
 Here is where the contrast with Packer was sharpest: Packer would have been playing the coach, questioning Izzo's moves, and would have declared the title game over by the middle of the first half. But Kellogg suggested twice in the second half that the run-down Spartans had a chance if they sank their 3-pointers and stopped turning the ball over. ''They've got to get a few shots to go,'' he said with 7 minutes 23 seconds left and North Carolina leading by 16.
 Kellogg would have benefited from Nantz's asking questions to prod more detailed answers about the defenses, or had their producer, Bob Dekas, pushed him to be more specific.
 Nantz never had to goad Packer, who was relentless about saying what teams had to do.
 Perhaps Kellogg was just too excited to offer aggressive and specific defensive analysis. In the pregame show, he declared that he was ''amped up two more levels'' over his normal excitement. That might account for his uttering one of the weirdest lines I've ever heard. During a North Carolina scoring run, Kellogg said it was ''the epitome of the spurtability team.''
 His wordplay is a signature aspect of his work. A foul by North Carolina's Tyler Hansbrough was evidence that he was going for ''a little lower-body root-canal action.''
 If only similar, nervy creativity were applied to analyzing defensive strategies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



333 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Striking It Poor

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: JAMESTOWN, Calif. 

 BODY:
 I wasn't sure this column would pan out.
 But with my savings and salary shrinking, it seemed worth a try. Heck, how hard could it be? I'd seen ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre,'' the 1948 classic starring Humphrey Bogart and directed by John Huston. (''Badges? ... I don't have to show you any stinkin' badges!'') That movie was the best meditation on prospecting for gold, and falling prey to greed, ever done -- until the Bernie Madoff story.
 Besides, with the American dream wobbling and the Golden State's luster dimmed, it seemed fitting to return to the Mother Lode of the Sierra Nevada foothills where the dream of audaciously striking it rich overnight was born 160 years ago, a Gold Rush that stimulated the world economy. 
 The 49ers -- who Mark Twain described as ''a wild, free, disorderly, grotesque society'' of ''unspeakably happy'' men -- stopped in San Francisco, two-and-a-half hours west of here, to buy supplies, such as bullets, salt meat and Levis. (And to buy shady ladies, or ''soiled doves,'' as they were known, but we won't get into that.) My San Francisco supplies were more modern: pre-torn jeans, a skim latte, a G.P.S., a cellphone and a laptop to get updates on the price of gold. With the dollar diminished and financial institutions in the doghouse, a hard nugget suddenly seems a safer bet than an ephemeral derivative. (Gold is trading at about $880 an ounce.) 
 News reports are heralding a neo-Gold Rush from Modesto to the Mojave Desert, a revival in prospectors at California's streambeds, spurred by the sputtering national economy, the state's 10.5 percent unemployment rate leaving many with free time and the weighty price of gold.
 Panners have been finding ''the sweat of the sun,'' as the Incas called gold. Mining claims, membership in prospecting clubs and sales at mining supply stores are up all over the state. One prospector from the East Coast boasted to NBC of finding $10,000 in gold in one day.
 My adventure did feel like time travel into the past, especially when the G.P.S. began flashing near Yosemite that we were ''entering an area where turn-by-turn guidance cannot be provided.'' As with Chaucer's ''Pardoner's Tale,'' with its moral of ''radix malorum est cupiditas'' or ''greed is the root of all evil,'' my two friends and I quickly fell to arguing about whether we would keep our own booty or split it three ways, suspicions blooming.
 As we walked into Brent Shock's gold prospecting shop on Main Street here, we heard someone singing that old Burl Ives staple ''Jimmy crack corn, and I don't care.'' We paid $200 for our two-hour ''sluice and pan,'' and headed down to Shock's resurrected mining camp at Woods Creek, where about 15 people, including some families, were out digging in waders.
 John Fonseca, a 27-year-old Brazilian from Salt Lake City, was there with his uncle, Jorge de Jesus, who had heard about Jamestown on The Travel Channel. Fonseca, who has done millwork for stores like Chanel and Armani, says work has slowed down, so he figured he'd hunt for gold. He had a small vial full of gold flakes from three hours of mining that day, which he said ruefully was ''not enough to sell'' or ''pay the bills.''
 Gary Speed, 58, who works for McClatchy's Cars.com unit, drove half an hour from Groveland, Calif., with his wife, Margaret, to celebrate her birthday. He's considering gold panning ''as another source of income because I'm going to retire soon.'' He was intent on not losing the gold flakes in his sluice. ''That can buy a can of cat food,'' he noted.
 With a gray beard, a mouth of missing teeth, intense blue eyes and a Marlboro Red dangling from his lip, the 57-year-old Shock is a throwback to prospectors of yore. ''Gold has been driving people crazy for years,'' he said. ''Man is man.''
 For kids, Shock sometimes helps Mother Nature, salting the river with fool's gold, pyrite, so they can be sure to find some treasure.
 I picked up a glittery nugget, but Shock disabused me. ''We call that California leverite,'' he said, ''as in, leave 'er right here.''
 He taught us how to swirl the pan around, with only your wrist and ''no body language,'' and separate silt from flecks.
 Aaron Levin, a 33-year-old FedEx manager from San Jose, said it was such hard work for so little return that if he needed extra money, he'd rather ''get a second job delivering pizzas.''
 In the end, Shock helped us round up a few flakes, which did not even merit a ''Eureka!'' and looked more like goldfish food than the ticket out of a fishy economy. ''It's $1,000 worth of conversation,'' Shock reassured us. It's also one more reminder that get-rich-quick schemes are often the road to empty pockets. 
 Back at the National Hotel bar on Main Street, where grizzled prospectors traded gold for whiskey long ago, we tried to trade our vial of flakes for Ramos gin fizzes and a lemon drop martini.
 ''Sure, I'll take it,'' said the bartender, ''along with a credit card.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOLD MINING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); MINES & MINING (76%); MOUNTAINS (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



334 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Recession Stalls State-Financed Pre-Kindergarten, but Federal Money May Help

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
One of the most drastic expansions of public education in recent American history unfolded quietly in this decade, as dozens of states added free pre-kindergarten classes to their traditional kindergarten to high school offerings.
 But the recession appears to have stalled the expansion of state-financed pre-kindergarten programs, according to Steven Barnett, a professor at Rutgers University who is a co-author of a new report documenting trends in early childhood education.
 ''We had been making remarkable progress, things were going great guns, but as the recession hit state governments, things started to change,'' Dr. Barnett said. ''It's gotten so that some people would even consider flat funding to be good.'' 
 From 2002 to 2008, spending on pre-kindergarten by states nearly doubled, to $4.6 billion from $2.4 billion, enabling states to increase enrollment to 1.1 million preschoolers from about 700,000.
 That growth came partly because governors and legislatures, convinced of the value of early childhood education, stepped in to fill a gap left by federal inaction. President George W. Bush, who focused mainly on trying to improve achievement among older children, allowed budgets for the largest federally financed preschool programs to stagnate.
 But given the economic decline, nine states -- Alabama, California, Connecticut, Florida, Iowa, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina and South Carolina -- have already announced cuts to state-run pre-kindergarten programs, Dr. Barnett said.
 And legislatures are debating cutbacks in some others, including Tennessee and Washington State, he said. 
 ''All of this may produce dire consequences for state pre-K programs,'' says the new report, the State of Preschool 2008, by the National Institute for Early Education Researchat the Rutgers Graduate School of Education. ''In most states, expenditures on pre-K are entirely discretionary and therefore easier to cut than expenditures for some other program.''
 Meanwhile, however, at President Obama's request, Congress has significantly raised federal financing for preschool education. Mr. Obama promised during the campaign to make large new investments in early childhood education, and in the economic stimulus package, Congress appropriated more than $4 billion for Head Start and Early Head Start programs and for grants to states to support child care for low-income families.
 ''The big picture here is that for the last eight years, the only game around for early childhood was in the states, because under Bush there was nothing going on at the federal level,'' said Cornelia Grumman, executive director of the First Five Years Fund, an advocacy group based in Chicago. ''All of a sudden that's changed. Now the only game is federal, because if you're a state-funded program relying on your state legislature, well, it's not a rosy picture.''
 The two largest federal preschool programs are Head Start, which serves low-income 3- and 4-year-olds and was begun by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, and Early Head Start, which serves infants and pregnant mothers and was inaugurated under President Bill Clinton in 1994. The combined budget for both programs was $6.5 billion in 2002. In 2008, Mr. Bush's last full year in office, their combined budget was $6.9 billion. 
 The Head Start Association, a nonprofit advocacy group, says that when inflation is taken into account, the financing for the two programs declined 13 percent from 2002 to 2008.
 Under the Obama administration, financing for Head Start and Early Head Start has been separated and has greatly increased. The stimulus law includes $1 billion for Head Start, which last year served about 830,000 children, and the 2009 budget includes an additional $235 million. 
 The stimulus law increases financing for Early Head Start, which serves 62,000 families, by $1.1 billion. That will allow the program to enroll an additional 55,000 families.
 Mr. Obama and Education Secretary Arne Duncan say their enthusiasm for early childhood education is based on research showing large paybacks for every dollar spent on the careful nurturing of poor children.
 Mr. Duncan repeated those arguments at a forum on early learning in Washington last week. ''For every dollar we spend on these programs, we get nearly $10 back in reduced welfare rolls, fewer health care costs and less crime,'' Mr. Duncan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (94%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); HISTORY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); FAMILY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CHILD CARE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



335 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Be Counted In 2010, New Yorkers Are Told

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Based on the most recent estimates, released last July, there are 8,363,710 people living in New York City, which is 4 percent more than there were in 2000, when the last census was conducted. 
 The number confirms that the city is still the nation's most populous and diverse: It has the largest Chinese contingent outside Asia, twice as many residents of African descent as any other American city, and more Latinos than any other place in the country. 
 New York City's diversity, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has repeatedly extolled as one its greatest assets, also presents challenges to the Census Bureau as it gears up for another count next year. Chief among them is the fact that there are about 500,000 illegal immigrants living in the city. Asking them to fill out a governmental form can be a daunting proposition, as many of them fear their status will be discovered and they will be deported. 
 ''There's nothing to fear from filling out a census survey,'' Mayor Bloomberg said on Tuesday at the Queens Central Library in Jamaica, where books, magazines and other periodicals can be found in more than 44 languages. ''If you're an undocumented immigrant and you fill out a survey, your life will not be affected.'' 
 Flanked by census and city officials, as well as hundreds of colorful books, Mr. Bloomberg stood at the library's children's room to announce the creation of the NYC 2010 Census Office, whose main goal is to ensure that more New Yorkers than ever before will fill out the census questionnaires they will receive in March. 
 Also on Tuesday, in a separate effort to bolster the number of census respondents, the mayor and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, wrote to Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, asking that the Census Bureau, which Mr. Locke oversees, count legally married same-sex couples as ''married'' in the 2010 census. As it stands, the bureau plans to count these couples as ''unmarried partners,'' since federal law does not recognize same-sex marriages. 
 ''Recognizing these unions for statistical purposes may encourage greater participation in the census'' among lesbians, gays and bisexuals, Mayor Bloomberg said. ''And greater participation and accuracy are the end goals of the census outreach effort.'' 
 Census results are used to determine which states gain -- or lose -- seats in Congress, as well how much money cities and states receive from the federal government. Getting as accurate a count as possible is important, then, especially at a time when the economy is struggling and municipalities are battling for every dollar they can receive in federal aid. 
 Census information is essentially collected in two phases, through questionnaires mailed to every household in the country and by workers who come knocking on the doors of those who do not respond -- a costly and time-consuming enterprise. In 2000, New York City logged a 55 percent response rate, well below the average of 67 percent nationwide, Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 With the nation's highest percentage of hard-to-count residents -- renters, low-income families, blacks and Hispanics, and single men and women -- the city will be orchestrating several programs through its census office. They include a public information campaign to residents in general and one specific to public housing developments, which are home to one in 13 New Yorkers; and partnerships with groups like religious institutions, nonprofit organizations and labor unions, which can help spread the message. 
 ''It's not about me asking someone if they're undocumented or documented,'' said the office's coordinator, Stacey Cumberbatch, a former chief of staff for the Housing Authority. ''It's reaching out to all communities in New York City and encouraging people to participate.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (97%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); MAYORS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); LIBRARIES (71%); DEPORTATION (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); GARY LOCKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



336 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Chief of Goldman Proposes Revamping Pay on Wall St.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The chief executive of Goldman Sachs, Lloyd C. Blankfein, says Wall Street compensation needs to be overhauled. On Tuesday, he suggested some guidelines, including having an individual's performance evaluated over time. 
 He also called for hedge funds to be subjected to government oversight to reduce the kind of excessive risk-taking that stoked the global financial crisis.
 Mr. Blankfein, who received compensation valued at nearly $43 million in 2008, said Tuesday that lessons from the crisis included the need to ''apply basic standards to how we compensate people in our industry.''
 Mr. Blankfein spoke at a meeting of the Council of Institutional Investors on Tuesday in Washington. The organization represents public, corporate and union pension funds.
 Mr. Blankfein said pay should be geared toward avoiding excessive risk-taking and recommended paying junior employees mostly in cash. He also said that unregulated pools of capital that are big enough to potentially endanger the financial system in a crisis should be put under ''some degree'' of government oversight. Those would include large hedge and private equity funds.
 The Obama administration recently presented a plan to Congress that would require larger hedge funds and other private pools of capital like venture capital funds to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a move would open their books to federal inspection.
 Public anger over the financial distress and taxpayer bailout of the banking industry spilled over to Mr. Blankfein's appearance as protesters confronted him while he was on stage. 
 Many say they believe that banks and other financial institutions reward their executives for short-term, high-risk gains with negative long-term consequences.
 ''Much of the past year has been deeply humbling for my industry,'' Mr. Blankfein said, acknowledging it could take years to rebuild the investor confidence lost partly by industry practices that appear ''self-serving and greedy in hindsight.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



337 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Start-Up Gets Course In Survival

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
In October, when Wall Street was already wallowing in the financial crisis, many in the technology industry still thought they might be insulated from the worst of it. 
 Sequoia Capital, the venture capital firm that backed Google, Yahoo and YouTube, scared them straight when it hastily gathered the chief executives of the 100 American companies in its portfolio for a stark wake-up call that rocked Silicon Valley as well as start-ups elsewhere. 
 The venture capitalists showed a slide show titled ''R.I.P. Good Times'' that began with a graphic photo of a dead pig with a butcher knife jabbed in its head. For start-ups, they said, it would be the survival of the quickest -- the quickest to cut costs and get profitable. 
 Dave Hersh, the chief executive of Jive Software, arrived at the meeting knowing he would have to make cuts. He just didn't know how deep and painful they would have to be. In the coming month, dozens of start-ups laid off about 1,000 people, scrapped new projects and hunkered down. Several closed for good. 
 Mr. Hersh had already been planning layoffs. After the Sequoia meeting, he decided, Jive would have to fire more people and overhaul its sales tactics to persuade strapped companies to buy software. 
 The changes Jive has made since the Sequoia meeting illustrate the ways in which young technology companies have slashed costs and narrowed their focus in an effort to stay alive. ''Jive is the poster child. They nailed it,'' said Jim Goetz, the Sequoia partner who is on Jive's board. In the quarter ending in March, Jive booked higher revenue than any quarter in its history and plans to start hiring again. 
 Last fall, though, Sequoia's message particularly stung Jive because it had been profitable until last year. Jive, which is based in Portland, Ore., was founded in 2001 by two University of Iowa students, Matt Tucker and Bill Lynch. Its Jive Social Business Software uses Web 2.0 tools like profile pages, forums and blogs to help companies create social networks for employees or customers. 
 Unlike many start-ups, Jive had been profitable since Day 1. Its software had good reviews in the trade press, and high-profile customers like Warner Brothers, Oracle and Nike bought it. Jive had raised $15 million from Sequoia in August 2007 and tripled its staff. 
 Then, at the beginning of last year, Jive started to stumble. It rushed to market a version of the software that was full of problems. It made bad hires in its rush to expand. Meanwhile, companies were cutting their software budgets. Jive lost money for the first time. 
 ''Candidly, some of the discipline and frugality that had been part of the culture began to disappear,'' Mr. Goetz said. ''It's the comfort that comes from raising a large round -- that's something we see all the time in young companies.'' 
 Seven days after the Sequoia meeting, Mr. Hersh laid off 25 of Jive's 150 full-time employees and several contractors. They included underperforming salespeople and three executives who lacked the skills to build a company past the start-up phase, Mr. Hersh said. He scrapped an instant-messaging project and let go of the engineers on the team. 
 ''Once you get this slap in the face of what's really going on out there, you realize you have to make changes immediately,'' Mr. Hersh said. ''It was like going through a break-up -- it's tough at first and then it's much better.'' 
 That same afternoon, he called the remaining employees to the office's open meeting space that Jive calls ''Whoville.'' Mr. Hersh first put up a slide with the names of the laid-off employees. He figured the remaining employees would not look around the room wondering who was missing and would thus concentrate on what he had to say. He detailed everything the company had done wrong. He borrowed from Sequoia's presentation and told the staff that Jive needed to conserve cash, make swift and deep cuts and invest based on results instead of ahead of them, as they had when they overhired. 
 ''Everyone was kind of numb, distracted,'' said Dennis Deveny, a field sales director at Jive. ''I got the vibe that Dave was near tears.'' 
 Then Mr. Hersh got his own taste of change, when Bill Lanfri joined the board as its new acting chairman. Mr. Goetz made the introduction. Mr. Lanfri had been the chief executive of Big Bear Networks, another Sequoia portfolio company. Mr. Goetz had also introduced Jive to another director, Tony Zingale, the former chief executive of Mercury Interactive, a software company bought by Hewlett-Packard. 
 In January, Mr. Zingale brought on John McCracken, who had been his vice president of sales at Mercury. Mr. McCracken, who is known inside Jive as Johnny Mac, went to work overhauling Jive's haphazard sales process. Jive's strategy had always been to try to sell software to anyone who called. Mr. McCracken considered it a waste of money to chase customers who did not really want Jive, especially as the recession made software a much harder sell. 
 Salespeople were instead trained to grill potential customers with questions about their budgets and goals and turn away customers that did not fit. ''One of the best things you can do as a business is to learn to say no,'' Mr. Hersh remembers Mr. McCracken telling him. 
 On a recent sales call with a large technology company, Mr. Deveny was told that it already used other wikis and forums. ''Aren't you just compounding things by adding another to the mix?'' Mr. Deveny asked, playing the devil's advocate. A week later, Mr. Deveny turned down a company because Jive thought another company's software would be a better fit, something that would have been unheard of before. 
 Instead of boasting about cool technology, salespeople now explain how the software has helped companies save money. They tell the story of T-Mobile, where a salesperson who risked losing a deal posted a question on Jive, received responses from far-flung colleagues and closed the deal. 
 After the upheaval at Jive, the buttoned-up Mr. Hersh promised employees that if they sold $8 million worth of software in the fourth quarter, he would commemorate it with a tattoo. 
 They succeeded, and on a rainy January afternoon, he called a tattoo artist into the office break room, drank a glass of Scotch, rolled up his gray dress pants, stuck his ankle out and braced himself while the tattooer inked a Roman numeral eight, designed by the same employee who had created the company logo. 
 Since then, he said, other tattooed people often strike up conversations with him about their tattoos' meanings. Most say theirs depict the cycle of life, Mr. Hersh said. ''I'm like, 'We hit quota!' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At right, Dave Hersh, chief executive of Jive Software, with Jim Goetz, a partner at Sequoia Capital and a member of Jive's board.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WEB 2 (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: JIVE SOFTWARE INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: JIVE (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



338 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: As Some U.S. Markets Level Off, Housing Slump Hits Manhattan

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
While sales have picked up a bit in some suffering housing markets in the West, creating a glimmer of hope that home prices nationwide may be approaching a bottom, the Manhattan real estate market has just begun a steep slide. It parallels the decline in New York's financial services industry, and housing analysts say it may continue long after other markets heal.
Apartment prices have once more become the talk of the town in Manhattan, but this time the talk is of uncertainty and falling numbers. While brokers say they are seeing more activity lately, especially from first-time buyers taking advantage of lower interest rates, housing analysts are predicting a prolonged slump in prices and sales that could last as long as four or five years. 
In this year's first quarter, sales of co-ops and condominiums in Manhattan plunged nearly 60 percent from the first quarter of 2008. Average co-op prices fell as much as 24 percent in the same period, according to various market reports released last week.
Condo prices have held up so far, but only because buyers who went into contract long before the downturn were closing on newly completed condominium buildings. But now few new contracts are being signed on unfinished condominiums, and some buyers have been renegotiating contracts or are trying to back out of them. Co-ops and condos make up 98 percent of the residential properties for sale in Manhattan.
The stress is most severe at the high end of the market. There are 350 apartments and town houses for sale in Manhattan with asking prices of more than $10 million, and inventory has been growing. It would take about six years at the current sales rate to absorb all those listings.
''For the last three years, it was the bigger the better,'' said Dolly Lenz, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''Now the key words are smaller, livable and affordable. Before no one asked what the maintenance was. Now everyone wants to know.''
Manhattan was spared some of the housing problems the rest of the country faced during this downturn. The mortgage foreclosure rate in Manhattan remains low even today. While thousands of condos were built here, most were bought by homeowners, not speculators, as was common in Miami and other oversaturated markets.
But Manhattan housing prices were driven higher by record earnings and bonuses on Wall Street, and they fell hard when the music stopped last fall.
The quick fall in prices is shown in the experience of Abigail Disney, a philanthropist and documentary filmmaker, who a year ago put her sprawling 17-room co-op on West End Avenue on the market for $13.5 million.
With trophy homes commanding ever higher prices from the titans of finance, Ms. Disney priced the apartment at 20 percent more than she had paid for it only a few months earlier. Harry Belafonte, the singer and actor, had created the huge space many years earlier by breaking through the walls of two smaller apartments.
After a series of price cuts, Ms. Disney has finally found buyers for the property, for just under $7.5 million, a 46 percent discount from her initial asking price. But to make a deal she agreed to restore the walls and convert it back into two apartments and sell it to two buyers.
Despite government efforts to ease credit around the country, the market in New York is being starved by a limited availability of credit, especially for jumbo mortgages, which are loans of more than $729,750. More than half of all apartment sales in Manhattan are above even the expanded limits of conventional mortgages, which carry lower interest rates.
Jonathan J. Miller, an appraiser who prepares quarterly reports on Manhattan, said the market could continue to fall through this year and next, especially if credit remained tight for most buyers. After that, he said, it could take several more years to work through the excess inventory.
The housing recovery will also depend on the state of the economy, which many forecasters say will take a disproportionate toll on New York City before the recession ends. In New York, the financial industry accounts for more than 30 percent of all wages, and at least some of the wages of half of all very high income households, according to the New York City comptroller's office.
While employment fell nationwide last year, the number of jobs actually grew in New York City until September. Since then, the city lost nearly 85,000 jobs through January, and the comptroller's office has forecast a loss of 121,000 jobs in 2009 and another 83,000 in 2010.
Condominiums under construction have been hit particularly hard, especially because new mortgage rules have made it difficult for buyers to get conventional loans unless 70 percent of the apartments in a building are in contract.
This has left many developers scrambling to convert condominium projects to rentals or provide alternative financing.
At 99 John Street in Lower Manhattan, where the Rockrose Development Corporation is converting a 27-story prewar Art Deco rental building into hundreds of condominiums, buyers were offered a chance to ''rent to own,'' and a promise that Rockrose would buy back an apartment after five years at 110 percent of the purchase price. The developer also began offering the apartments in bulk to investors, in packages of 15 apartments.
In the late 1980s, a surge in condominium construction in New York created a glut of condo apartments. Prices peaked in 1989, declined steeply in 1991, bottomed out in 1993 and stabilized in 1995 and 1996.
Shaun Osher, the chief executive of Core Group Marketing, said he had begun to see more activity this spring, but at much lower prices, with luxury apartment prices off as much as 40 percent.
Mr. Miller said that during the last big real estate downturn, when studio apartments were so cheap that he considered buying one on a credit card, people thought the luxury market would never come back. ''Conspicuous consumption was out of vogue in 1991,'' he said. ''The market was back by 1997 or 1998.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The owner of a 17-room co-op on West End Avenue lowered her asking price 46 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) CHARTS: Number of condominium and co-op sales that closed each quarter in Manhattan. (pg.A1)
 SALES SLOWDOWN: Co-op and condominium sales have slowed sharply in Manhattan. Co-op sale prices have fallen, but condominium prices remain near record levels, because of contracts negotiated before the downturn. Few new contracts are being signed. (Source: Analysis of New York City Department of Finance filings) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



339 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Recession Anxiety Seeps Into Everyday Lives

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
Anne Hubbard has not lost her job, house or savings, and she and her husband have always been conservative with money.
But a few months ago, Ms. Hubbard, a graphic designer in Cambridge, Mass., began having panic attacks over the economy, struggling to breathe and seeing vivid visions of ''losing everything,'' she said.
She ''could not stop reading every single economic report,'' was so ''sick to my stomach I lost 12 pounds'' and ''was unable to function,'' said Ms. Hubbard, 52, who began, for the first time, taking psychiatric medication and getting therapy.
In Miami, Victoria Villalba, 44, routinely slept eight hours a night until stories of desperate clients flooding the employment service she runs began jolting her awake at 2 a.m. No longer sleepy, she first began to respond to e-mail, but that caused sleeping colleagues' BlackBerrys to wake them, so now she studies business books and meticulously organizes her closets. 
''I'm embarrassed,'' she said. ''Normal people aren't doing this.''
With economic damage expected to last months or years, such reactions are becoming common, experts say. Anxiety, depression and stress are troubling people everywhere, many not suffering significant economic losses, but worrying they will or simply reacting to pervasive uncertainty.
Some are seeking counseling or medication for the first time. Others are resuming or increasing treatment, or redirecting therapy for other issues onto economic anxiety.
''The economy and fear of what's going to happen is having a huge effect,'' said Sarah Bullard Steck, a Washington therapist who also directs the employee assistance program at the Commerce Department. ''People are coming in more'' with ''severe anxiety'' or ''more marital strife, some domestic violence, some substance abuse.''
Alan A. Axelson, a Pittsburgh psychiatrist, said he was seeing first-time patients and infrequent ones experiencing ''relapse and needing more therapy and medication'' even though, he said, ''Pittsburgh's actually doing pretty good economically.''
It is early to measure the recession's consequences, but surveys suggest a growing impact. In an American Psychological Association poll in September, 80 percent reported the economy's causing significant stress, up from 66 percent last April. The National Sleep Foundation said 27 percent of people surveyed last fall had sleeplessness because of economic anxiety.
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline calls jumped to 50,158 in January 2009 from 39,465 a month in January 2008, and economic stress more frequently ''played a central role,'' said Richard McKeon, the group's federal project officer.
The Treasury, Labor and other departments started a Web site for people experiencing stress. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is training counselors who usually assist people devastated by tornadoes and floods to now help people with what they ''are going through with the economy,'' said Dr. McKeon, an agency adviser.
And while a New York Times/CBS News poll found fewer people saying the economy had worsened, most did not think it was improving. People overwhelmingly thought the recession would last another year or more, and 70 percent were concerned that a household member would be jobless.
Anxiety is not just troubling those with much to lose, like older people and homeowners. Elizabeth Dewey-Vogt, 25, a paralegal whose bills and shrinking overtime made her move in with her parents in Alexandria, Va., said she began ''constantly worrying about finances,'' and having panic attacks, ''rapid heart beat, choking sensation, chills or sweating, numbness and tingling in my fingers,'' and feeling ''almost removed from my body.''
Ms. Dewey-Vogt said that she now took anxiety medication, and that a therapist advised her to pull over or ''concentrate on the license plate ahead'' if she began panicking while driving and to grip on the handles of her chair when panicking at work.
Even children show signs.
Daniel A. Cohen, a Manhattan psychiatrist, said he saw ''more families in crisis,'' with children experiencing ''increased signs of anxiety and depression'' and more nightmares and acting out.
Joshua Batista, 16, of Queens, who was treated for depression and post-traumatic stress after a taxi accident, said he had ''gotten more depressed and stressed'' since ''the recession and that stuff started.'' In school, he said he experienced ''a nervous breakdown where I was pulling out my hair, hitting my head.'' Joshua, a singer-guitarist, said the economy limited his music purchases and earnings. Therapy and medication have increased. Asked to leave school, he will be taught at home. ''He noticed it was happening at the same time as the economy,'' said his mother, Elissa Levine.
Even for insured people, the economy both causes anxiety and makes help less affordable.
Susan Bandrowsky, 30, a photographer in Wilmington, Del., with bipolar disorder, said she felt strain because her husband, having lost a long-term consulting contract, worked short-term jobs requiring travel, unsettling their 4-year-old autistic son. Fearing the loss of insurance, Ms. Bandrowsky would like more therapy, but to save co-payments she spaces appointments, which, she said, ''ups the anxiety.''
Many seeking help are fearful, not actually incurring economic difficulty, said Joseph Ojile, founder of Clayton Sleep Institute in St. Louis, where patients increased 25 percent since October.
Steven Craig, a psychologist in Birmingham, Mich., said ''people of less means'' were handling some of this better because ''their identity is not as caught up in how much money they have.''
Many ask primary physicians for medication, not therapy referrals, because they fear that employers will consider them unstable or resent counseling during work hours, said Allen J. Dietrich, a family doctor in Lebanon, N.H. He said he broached the subject of emotional stress gently because many had come in with physical complaints like arthritis or headaches.
Still, a survey of employee assistance programs found a jump in stress-related requests. ''The stress level has increased a lot,'' said Suzanne Greenlee, human resources benefits director at Sodexo Inc., a food services company.
Even for Ms. Greenlee, who said she ''realized how tense I was'' after trying Sodexo's stress-management coach. She e-mailed the coach, ''Today I'm feeling totally overwhelmed.''
During therapy recently, Marcy Krust, 39, told Dr. Craig, ''People say it's going to be better, but I don't feel that way yet.'' A divorced mother and on-and-off patient, Ms. Krust said she had not needed therapy for months until, with layoffs affecting her technology firm's clients and fellow hockey moms, she felt ''out of control'' and ''started to forget things.'' Now twice-monthly sessions focus on the economy. Dr. Craig advises writing down worries, and making decisions about controllable things, like vacations.
Scott Schuck, 43, a Minneapolis business owner who had consulted Dr. Craig only for career coaching, began twice-weekly phone sessions after stress started waking him and creating ''a lot of anxiety'' in his relationship with his girlfriend.
Ms. Villalba, wary of medication, started meditation classes, even meditating in her car outside her office.
Ms. Hubbard, knowing ''financially we were fine,'' said she believed ''I shouldn't feel like this, I'm lucky.'' She cried visiting her primary doctor, who recommended therapy and medication, hard to accept, she said, because her Depression-era parents believed ''you pull yourself up.''
''I felt like a neurotic middle-class, middle-aged woman too weak to deal with life on my own,'' she said. ''I should be stronger, it was simply money, and why do I have to take pills to not worry about money.''
But treatment and further organizing family finances helped. She said the weakening economy made her ''fear that even if you do everything right, something bad can happen to you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victoria Villalba, center, at a meditation class, with Monica Ferrari, left, and Line Bovery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Anne Hubbard of Cambridge, Mass., began having panic attacks over the state of the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Joshua Batista of Queens said he was more stressed since ''the recession and that stuff started.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEPRESSION (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); PSYCHIATRY (75%); SLEEP (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



340 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Another Bow for the Fraying Family

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- In the right context conventional virtues have a way of gleaming like fresh seams of gold. The most satisfying production at the 33rd Humana Festival of New American Plays at the Actors Theater here, a two-act contemporary drama called ''Absalom'' by Zoe Kazan, was also the most traditional.
Many playwrights represented at the festival were busy wagging fingers and wringing hands about the sorry state of American culture and society in works either unfocused, confused, coy or cloying. In contrast Ms. Kazan dusted off the solid building blocks of 20th-century American drama to construct a new play about that enduring staple, the fraying family. With its believably human characters, intriguing tangle of relationships, playable dialogue and cozy setting in the Berkshires, this promising new play all but dazzled by achieving its relatively modest aims.
Set mostly during the course of a single day -- a dramaturgical challenge that too few playwrights attempt these days -- ''Absalom'' dissects the tangled history of a literary family getting ready to celebrate the publication of the patriarch's memoir. 
Saul Weber, a first-generation immigrant, takes great pride in having fought his way to success in a business usually run as a gentlemen's club. A famous editor known for discovering new voices, he also raised two sons into the business, Adam, a novelist, and Teddy, an editor.
As the family assembles, storm clouds of dissension and resentment threaten to dampen the festivities. The bitter Adam is still grieving over a broken marriage and a son dead at 15 from a swimming accident -- and then there's the cancer diagnosis. (Ms. Kazan doesn't take any chances in terms of stoking the play's dramatic fires.)
The comparatively content Teddy tries not to notice his brother's peevishness, his father's bullying egoism and the frustrations of his wife, Julia, a novelist who also happens to be Adam's former student and former love. Sophia Weber, Saul's only daughter and now his caretaker, tries to keep the peace, a task that becomes still more challenging when Cole Maddox, yet another writer and Saul's former protege -- virtually another son -- arrives uninvited. Long ago mentor and apprentice parted ways after falling out over the authorship of a book they worked on together.
Perhaps benefiting from her experience as an actor -- she appeared on Broadway last fall in ''The Seagull'' -- Ms. Kazan writes lively, speakable dialogue that reveals all this troublesome history without too much strain. She probably needs to spend more time exploring the insides of her characters rather than constructing a dense maze of narrative to tie them convincingly together. The play is overplotted and a little mechanical at times.
While its characters are naturally and economically drawn, we never peer very deeply inside them. But ''Absalom,'' directed by Giovanna Sardelli, suggests that Ms. Kazan possesses an instinctive feel for mining drama from the neuroses, insecurities and obsessions of the creative classes. This is no surprise, perhaps, given her heritage as the daughter of screenwriters and granddaughter of the director and writer Elia Kazan.
Ms. Kazan's burdensome narrative seems positively tidy compared with the lurid turns of plot that eventually sink ''Slasher,'' a confused comedy-drama by Allison Moore that attempts simultaneously to spoof the bloody tide of crazed-killer horror movies, exploit the stylistic tricks of the trade for suspense, and explore the anti-female agenda being disseminated by these films.
Most of this has been done smartly and with considerable success by Kevin Williamson and others in the scary-funny and immensely entertaining ''Scream'' movies. Ms. Moore at first takes a naturalistic approach that suggests the slasher-movie setting will mostly be used as a pretext for exploring the conflict between Frances, a staunch feminist who believes men have caused all her problems, and her college-age daughter, Sheena, who has defiantly taken the lead victim role in a crazed-killer movie.
But as Frances goes to increasingly desperate lengths to stop her daughter from appearing in the movie, Ms. Moore and the play's director, Josh Hecht, lose their grip on both plot and tone. The mechanics of moviemaking are laughably depicted, and the attempts to meld the comic and horrific aspects of the story become increasingly ludicrous.
If Ms. Moore's viewpoint remains unclear, the perspective of ''Ameriville,'' a performance work written and performed by Universes (Gamal Abdel Chasten, Mildred Ruiz, William Ruiz and Steven Sapp), is all too readily apparent. This work might well be subtitled ''Everything That's Wrong With America in 90 Minutes of Sketch and Song.''
The piece begins promisingly as an exploration of the specific travails of the people of New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina. There is a lot of tart, funny writing in the early going, as well as some straight-up, intimate and beautifully performed portraiture. The authors are all vivid, warmly engaging performers. But the announcement that ''there is a Katrina brewing in your neighborhood'' signals a widening of the play's focus, and ultimately a diminution of its effectiveness, as we are treated to quick comic bits or more serious diatribes about gun control, the health care system, global warming and anything else you'd care to name. (Couldn't they at least have left out Nancy Reagan?)
A similar blurriness afflicted the two plays from more established playwrights at this year's festival. ''Under Construction'' is the latest collaboration between the writer Charles L. Mee and the SITI company, under the direction of Anne Bogart. A loose collage of scenes that prides itself on merry disorder, the play, like other shows devised by Mr. Mee and Ms. Bogart, employs the work of seminal American visual artists as a focal point.
Norman Rockwell's wholesome vision of small-town life is glancingly referenced at various points in the proceedings, and the music of Bing Crosby dapples the soundscape. But the vision of America as a country forever in flux, defined by a sense of aspiration and togetherness whose dark side is failure and isolation, is like a television picture that keeps shorting out.
Naomi Wallace, the Kentucky-born playwright who now lives in England, drew the material for her new play, ''The Hard Weather Boating Party,'' from research on the manufacturing Rubbertown section of Louisville. But you wouldn't easily deduce this from anything in the play itself, which takes place in a generic motel room where three men meet before embarking on a plan that Ms. Wallace is tiresomely coy about describing.
Although the first act has patches of sharply funny dialogue, the characters are not compelling enough to alleviate irritation at the writer's portentous game playing, which is probably meant to stoke suspense but ultimately becomes a drag. By the time the circumstances that have drawn these men together is finally revealed -- corporate greed has poisoned them all, more or less literally -- interest has mostly withered, despite strong performances by Michael Cullen as the ringleader and Jesse J. Perez and Kevin Jackson as his allies.
Superficially the most upbeat and most innocuous entry in the festival, ''Wild Blessings: A Celebration of Wendell Berry,'' adapted by the Actors Theater artistic director Marc Masterson and Adrien-Alice Hansel from the writings of Mr. Berry, oddly turned out to be one of the most wearying. The mechanics were simple enough: five performers took turns reciting the work of this nature-celebrating Kentucky poet, while photographs of flora and fauna were seen on two large screens behind them.
Rural dwellers may have boundless tolerance for exaltations of the wonders and mysteries of the natural world, but the urban spirit begins to rebel. By the time this well-intentioned but miscalculated show drew to a close, I was more than ready to hop on an environment-trashing jet plane and return to the soulless city, having acquired a pronounced and irrational antipathy to fertile farmland seen on misty mornings and dew-dappled fiddlehead ferns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Todd Weeks and Katie Kreisler in Zoe Kazan's ''Absalom'' at the Humana Festival of New American Plays.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARLAN TAYLOR) (C1)
 Larry John Meyers, left, and Tracy Conyer Lee in a scene from ''Wild Blessings: A Celebration of Wendell Berry'' at the Humana Festival in Louisville, Ky.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARLAN TAYLOR)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); MEN (76%); MARRIAGE (74%); LITERATURE (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



341 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Right on the Money

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- On Nov. 29, 2006, Ford Motor made a surprising pitch to the nation's biggest banks. In a packed ballroom at a New York hotel, Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said he would mortgage all the company's assets for billions of dollars in loans to finance an overhaul of the troubled automaker. Although the economy was healthy then, Mr. Mulally said the money would give Ford ''a cushion to protect for a recession or other unexpected event.''
At the time, the request was considered an act of desperation. But the $23.6 billion in loans it received turned out to be Ford's salvation.
Plunging car sales have driven its two American rivals, General Motors and Chrysler, to the brink of bankruptcy, forcing them to borrow $17.4 billion from the federal government to stay in business. The future of both companies will be decided in the weeks to come by President Obama and his special auto task force. 
But because of the money it borrowed nearly three years ago, Ford is in far better shape than its two crosstown rivals. The loans have kept it independent and on a course to survive the worst new-vehicle market in nearly 30 years.
''It was a defining moment for us,'' Mr. Mulally said in an interview. ''But they never would have been willing to lend us the money if we weren't on a different path.''
Mr. Mulally had been on the job as Ford's chief executive less than 90 days when he asked for the loans. But as he told the bankers, he was prepared to make tough decisions, including selling off brands, shedding jobs and focusing Ford's efforts on small cars rather than trucks and sport utility vehicles.
Since then, he has accelerated Ford along that path, pursuing a top-to-bottom transformation that extends from its global product lineup to its renewed focus on the Blue Oval trademark.
As a result, for the first time in decades, Ford's fortunes no longer seem so closely tied to the broader fate of Detroit.
Mr. Mulally, 63, is doing all he can to separate Ford in the public's mind from its hometown competitors.
To emphasize his point, he pulled out a recent newspaper cartoon that compared college basketball's Final Four to Toyota, Honda, Volkswagen -- and Ford.
''We are competing against the best in the world,'' Mr. Mulally said. ''It's not just with the companies in the U.S.''
While G.M. and Chrysler wait for more federal aid, Ford is capitalizing on its status as the only one of the Big Three in Detroit to make it, so far, on its own.
Some surveys are showing consumers migrating away from G.M. and Chrysler to Ford showrooms. Inside Ford headquarters here in Dearborn, management sees a unique opportunity to expand its market share and further separate Ford from the competition.
''I don't take any joy in watching G.M. and Chrysler struggle,'' said William C. Ford Jr., the company's executive chairman. ''I wish them well, but I wish us better. I want us to win.''
Ford is hardly out of the woods. The company lost $14.6 billion last year, when its vehicle sales in the United States slumped 20 percent, compared with 22 percent at G.M. and 30 percent at Chrysler.
Its once-bulging bank account is dwindling as well. Industry analysts estimate that Ford has about a year's worth of cash left to carry it through a still-depressed car market.
Still, Ford's decision to borrow billions in 2006 when the capital markets were thriving will go down as one of the most significant moves in the company's 105-year history.
''We believe this foresight to strengthen the company's balance sheet is what has separated Ford from its crosstown rivals during the economic downturn,'' a Merrill Lynch analyst, John Murphy, said in a report to investors this week.
The Obama administration is forcing G.M. and Chrysler to obtain big concessions from union workers and lenders to qualify for more federal aid.
Ford, however, is having better success on both fronts without a government mandate.
Unlike G.M. and Chrysler, the company has reached agreement with the United Automobile Workers to finance half of its new retiree health care trust with company stock.
Earlier this week, Ford also completed a deal with its creditors to retire $9.9 billion in corporate debt -- some of which was part of the big borrowing in 2006.
Investors have welcomed the moves. Ford's stock climbed 13 percent to close at $3.95 on Wednesday, the highest it has been since October.
That was when the car market crashed and the auto companies began burning through huge amounts of cash. A month later, Mr. Mulally was in the spotlight -- along with G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, and Chrysler's chairman, Robert L. Nardelli -- during Congressional hearings on Detroit's financial woes.
Mr. Mulally said Ford never intended to ask for federal help but needed to support the industry during its crisis.
''From Day 1, we had no desire to access the government money,'' he said.
Ford parted ways with G.M. and Chrysler in December, when its two rivals effectively came under government supervision as part of their loan agreements.
Last month, the presidential task force forced Mr. Wagoner to resign at G.M. and began an effort to replace the company's board.
Meanwhile, Mr. Ford, whose great-grandfather founded the auto company, and Mr. Mulally continue to pursue their long-range turnaround plans.
When Mr. Mulally came to Ford after 37 years with Boeing, one of his first tasks was to borrow the money needed to streamline the company and hasten its shift to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
He made his presentation to more than 400 bankers in the ballroom of the Marriott Marquis in New York, and he knew he was facing a skeptical audience.
''The No. 1 thing we need to do is deal with our reality and tackle those issues head on,'' he said.
At the time, the consensus among analysts was that G.M. was in better shape than Ford.
''It was not seen as a positive that Ford needed to leverage itself so dramatically,'' said John A. Casesa, a former Merrill Lynch analyst and consultant to auto companies. ''It was more of an act of desperation.''
But Ford benefited from the easy credit of the times. The company originally sought to raise $18 billion and ended up with $23.6 billion.
It has needed every bit of it. Mr. Mulally acknowledged that he did not foresee that annual auto sales in the United States would drop to 13.2 million vehicles last year, from 16 million in 2006, and possibly as low as 10 million this year.
He also knows that a continued slump in sales will put even more pressure on Ford's balance sheet.
''We have sufficient liquidity to handle what the situation is now,'' he said.
Ford is betting that its newest products can stabilize its falling revenue. It has high hopes, for example, for the new Taurus midsize sedan that Mr. Mulally pushed for in his early days at the company.
But it is still an uphill climb. Ford's sales are down 43 percent in the first three months of this year compared with the same period a year earlier. The overall United States market is down 38 percent.
Ford's market share has been holding steady at about 15 percent. But that could move up, particularly if either G.M. or Chrysler is forced into bankruptcy.
A recent national study by the firm AutoPacific found that 72 percent of those surveyed would be more likely to buy a Ford product because the company is not taking government loans.
''This is America, and this is about making products people want and being self-sufficient,'' Mr. Mulally said. ''Clearly, the reputation of Ford is on the rise in the consumer's mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Only months into his job as Ford's chief executive, Alan Mulally borrowed $23.6 billion, a move that has left Ford in far better shape today than either G.M. or Chrysler.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
''I don't take any joy in watching G.M. and Chrysler struggle,'' says William C. Ford Jr., the executive chairman of Ford Motor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From left, Alan Mulally of Ford, Thomas LaSorda of Chrysler and Rick Wagoner of G.M. in 2006 after meeting with President George W. Bush. Only Mr. Mulally still heads his company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BASKETBALL (62%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (91%); RICK WAGONER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



342 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Chicago 2016 Offers the I.O.C. a Compact Games Plan

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- When the evaluation team arrived last week, this city was ready.
''We back the bid'' and ''imagine'' signs were affixed to buses, bridges and buildings. Flowerpots flanking Michigan Avenue teemed with blooms. Fountains around town, turned on weeks earlier than usual, spouted plumes of water. Volunteers by the hundreds braved rain, snow and wind to show their support for bringing the 2016 Summer Olympics to Chicago.
The 13 inspectors sent from the International Olympic Committee to assess Chicago's Olympic plans dined with Oprah Winfrey, toured the lakefront sites and attended nonstop meetings about the city's bid.
When it was over, they said they were impressed with the compactness of the city's Games and the enthusiasm of its business leaders and citizens. 
''We are leaving with a very strong impression that the bid is a strong one,'' said the evaluation commission's chairwoman, Nawal el-Moutawakel, an Olympic gold medalist for Morocco. ''But at the end, there is only one winner.''
Next week the I.O.C. inspection team will repeat its evaluation process in Tokyo, one of four cities bidding for the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Trips to Rio de Janeiro and Madrid are scheduled in subsequent weeks.
These are the commission's final visits before it submits a report by Sept. 2 on the technical aspects of each bid. On Oct. 2 the I.O.C. will vote on a winner.
''We're very pleased with their reaction, but we're not deluding ourselves,'' said Chicago 2016's bid leader, Patrick G. Ryan, the founder of Aon Corporation, the insurance broker. ''They're going on to three great cities -- three great cities that will show well.''
Videos of support were shown from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who grew up in suburban Chicago, and the newly minted Hall of Fame basketball player Michael Jordan. Perhaps more influential than anyone else in this bid effort, which cost $50 million, is President Obama. Mayor Richard M. Daley has called him ''the quarterback of our bid.''
''I know that he and the rest of the country want to bring the Olympics back to the United States of America,'' Daley said. ''Now we just have to win votes.''
President Obama's home is within walking distance of the proposed Olympic Stadium in Washington Park on the South Side. He has supported the bid from the outset, taping several promotional videos, including one that greeted the I.O.C. team here last week.
But in the uncertainty of the current economic crisis, Chicago simply cannot rest on the help of cheerleaders, no matter how prominent. While the other bid cities have received blanket guarantees from their governments to cover any operating budget shortfalls, Chicago does not have that cushion.
The city has promised to cover $500 million if Chicago 2016 does not stay within its estimated Games budget of $4.8 billion. The state would provide another $250 million if there are overruns. Adding private insurance and a contingency fund to the government money would raise the amount to about $1.2 billion, bid officials said.
Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president, said last week that Chicago's guarantees would be ample.
Gilbert Felli, the executive director of the Olympic Games and a member of the evaluation commission, said he expected the worldwide recession to end by 2016, but did not want to be naive.
''We know we all live in the world of risk, so what we're going to do is analyze the amount of risk,'' Felli said.
In a race as close as this one, even perceived disadvantages will matter.
In an index calculated by GamesBids.com, an influential, independent Web site based in Canada that looks at the business of the bidding process, about 3 points separate the frontrunner, Tokyo, from the last-place city, Chicago. Rio is second. Madrid is third.
''In 2012 there were clear leaders and clear losers, with about 17 points between first and last,'' said Robert Livingstone, the Web site's producer. ''Now the race is very tight. It shows that anyone can win this.''
The Chicago bid team said it hoped this would be the United States' time. This country has not been host to a Summer Olympics since Atlanta in 1996; the 2002 Salt Lake City Games were the last domestic Winter Olympics.
New York finished an embarrassing fourth of five cities in voting for the 2012 Games, which went to London. But United States Olympic Committee and Chicago 2016 officials said they learned from New York's failures. ''This city owes New York a great debt of gratitude,'' said George Hirthler, a senior strategist on Chicago and New York's Olympic bids as well as seven others.
New York's inability to secure a deal for an Olympic Stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan in the waning weeks of the competition created a gaping hole in its bid.
Spurred by that defeat in 2005, the U.S.O.C. regrouped, setting up a process for choosing future United States bid cites that mirrors the one used by the international committee. The new process requires bid cities to have the land, the approval and the private financing for an Olympic Stadium.
Chicago beat Houston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and San Francisco under those new guidelines.
''So we know that this bid is not going to backfire,'' Hirthler said. ''It's very, very strong.''
Since New York's loss, the United States committee has worked hard to strengthen its relationship with the bid city. For most of the New York bid, the relationship between the two entities was rocky because U.S.O.C. leadership was in upheaval.
''As an Olympic committee back then, we just didn't have a lot to offer the New York bid, so they basically had to construct an entire operation from scratch and battle on their own,'' said Bob Ctvrtlik, a member of the U.S.O.C.'s board and the vice chairman of international relations for Chicago 2016. ''This time, we were able to jump start the Chicago bid with a four-year effort.''
On a tour of potential sites Sunday, Chinese drummers and dragon dancers greeted the committee as it entered McCormick Place, a massive convention center on the city's South Side that would host 11 Olympic sports and 8 Paralympic sports.
The athletes' village would be built on city-owned land and include a beach. It would place 90 percent of the athletes within 15 minutes of traveling time to training and competition sites.
The proposed site of the Olympic Stadium is in Washington Park, where more than 200 rain-soaked volunteers stood to demonstrate the footprint of an 85,000-seat stadium that would host opening and closing ceremonies, and track and field.
After the Olympics the stadium would be pared down to 7,500 permanent seats to better fit the community's needs. Also in Chicago's plan is to use existing sports sites, including Soldier Field and the United Center.
The I.O.C. said that vision was consistent with its principles. Cities should not be stuck with arenas that go unused after the Games.
But bid officials are not resting on those encouraging words. They now must reach out to I.O.C. members worldwide to convince them that Chicago is worth their vote.
''We're not assuming anything,'' Ryan said. ''We'll be out informing people more about Chicago. We'll be out establishing relationships, strengthening relationships. There's a lot of travel, a lot of hard work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: If supporters get their way, an Olympic Stadium, shown in an artist's rendering, will be built in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHICAGO 2016, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Soldier Field, which will be used in 2016 if Chicago wins the Olympics, was one of the sites visited by I.O.C. inspectors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); BASKETBALL (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: AON PLC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (65%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); OPRAH WINFREY (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



343 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: The Misguided Quest For Universal Coverage

BYLINE: By RAMESH PONNURU. 
Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor at National Review.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 AMERICA'S dysfunctional health care financing system needs to be reformed. But the goal should not be universal coverage. Reform should simply aim to make health insurance more affordable and portable.
 Universal coverage has so dominated the health care discussion that even some Republicans have tried to devise market-friendly ways to achieve it. The case for doing so is presented in practical, moral and political terms.
 The practical case is that uninsured people raise premiums for everyone else. But such cost shifting raises premiums by 1.7 percent at most, according to a 2008 study published in the journal Health Affairs. Reforms that increase the number of people with health insurance, while stopping short of universal coverage, would presumably make that small percentage even smaller. 
 Efforts to eliminate this relatively tiny expense, on the other hand, would surely generate new costs. To mandate that everyone purchase health insurance, as many have suggested, would require that the government specify what constitutes adequate coverage -- in other words, what health conditions an insurance policy would need to cover. Every provider group with a lobbyist, from massage therapists to fertility specialists, would want in. The result would be expensive insurance policies and costly government subsidies to help people buy them. Young and healthy people, especially, would be forced to overpay. So we would end up with more cost-shifting, and no savings.
 This is another way of saying that universal coverage cannot be achieved using free-market methods -- a point that many liberals correctly make. A bipartisan bill in the Senate introduced by Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, purports to use the market to provide universal coverage. It would keep insurance companies in business, but only by converting them into regulated and subsidized public utilities, eliminating most existing insurance plans and expanding the I.R.S. by a quarter. It owes more to Rube Goldberg than Milton Friedman.
 The moral case for universal coverage is that we have an obligation to see to it that the poor and the near-poor have access to good health care. But universal coverage is only one way of realizing that goal, and not necessarily the best one. For people with pre-existing health problems, for example, direct subsidies would probably be more efficient than rigging insurance markets to make sure they are covered. As Michael Cannon, a health policy analyst at the Cato Institute, has written, ''There is no evidence that a dollar spent on universal coverage will save more lives than a dollar spent on clinics, or reducing medical errors, or nutrition, or fighting poverty, or even improving education.'' And if universal coverage generally reduces the quality of care or retards medical innovation, it could end up being bad for everyone, including the poor.
 The political case for universal coverage is based on the assumption that voters want it. But people's preference for universal coverage is not as great as their desire to reduce health care costs, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found in late 2007. So it's not clear that people would accept higher taxes, mandates or the prospect of rationing health care one day just to make sure that every individual is covered. During the Democratic presidential primaries, Hillary Clinton repeatedly attacked Barack Obama's health care plan for not covering everyone -- and as you may have noticed, he survived. If Democratic primary voters are not wedded to universality, the larger public surely is not.
 An alternative approach would be to make it easier for people to buy insurance that isn't tied to their employment. The existing tax break for employer-provided insurance could be replaced with a tax credit that applies to insurance purchased either inside or outside the workplace. At the same time, state mandates that require insurers to cover certain conditions, which make it expensive to offer individual policies, could be removed.
 These two reforms would address most people's anxieties about the health care system. Insurance would be more affordable, especially for people who cannot get it through an employer, so the number of people with insurance would rise. Indeed, this would enable more than 20 million more Americans to get insurance, according to a model created by Steve Parente, a health economist at the University of Minnesota. 
 More important, people would own their insurance policies and thus be able to take them from job to job. They would no longer need to worry about losing their job and their insurance at the same time, or feel they need to stay with a job they dislike because they need the benefits.
 Critics of this free-market solution have argued that it would cause the current employer-based health insurance system to unravel. But that system is already unraveling, and if public health plans are created, as called for under President Obama's proposal, they would unravel further as employers dumped their workers onto the public plans. A second argument is that people with pre-existing conditions would find it hard to get coverage. In fact, in the long run, the option to buy renewable policies that people could take from job to job would keep most people from needing to face this problem. Direct government subsidies could help the remainder.
 The third complaint against free-market health insurance is that it wouldn't cover absolutely everyone, because it would neither force people to buy insurance nor require the government to provide it. Pharmaceutical companies and other provider groups would make a bit less money than they would if there were universal coverage -- although they would probably be better off than they are now.
 For most people, though, especially those in the middle class, it would mean paying less for health insurance. Some people, of course, would still choose to go without it. But that would be their call, as it should be in a free country.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL/BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); MASSAGE SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



344 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: How to Cut the Beastly Cost of Digital Services

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
IF there was ever a time not to procrastinate, that time is now. 
 With the economy in poor shape, and many Americans pulling back on their spending for fear of what tomorrow (or even this afternoon) will bring, now is not the time to assume that the cost of some of your entertainment and communication expenses are set in stone.
 I found that out the hard way recently when I wondered if I could pare my expenses. Off in the corner of my desk sat a forlorn fax machine. Once humming with activity, it had been quiet for most of the last three years, except for the occasional times it spit out an ad for a fake vacation or bogus health care plan. I gave it little thought. That was the problem.
 I canceled the fax's rarely used, but just as rarely noticed, phone line and cut my monthly expenses by $30. 
 Bitten with the savings bug, I went on a rampage, poring over every bill in sight. Next on the chopping block: a third-party long-distance service once offered through Costco that was cheap at the time, but was now costing me much more than an all-in-one phone plan. I rejiggered my telephone plan, originally ordered 15 years ago, to now include unlimited local and long distance. Total savings: another $32 a month.
 Seeing our newfound cash flow, my wife asked me to examine her business's phone bills. We removed a separate long-distance plan in favor of an all-in-one service and saved $20 a month. For those keeping score, that's $82 a month so far.
 With just a few hours of work, it became clear that it was possible to save hundreds of dollars, even thousands a year without decreasing the level of services we already received.
 Here are some more tips on how to do the same. 
 DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL Cable, satellite and telephone companies can only be overjoyed that millions of their customers take no action to lower their bills, and instead routinely pay much too much for overpriced plans they purchased a decade ago. 
 Faced with increased competition, they will gladly tell you about better package prices if you ask, but they won't be calling you up to tell you how you can save money. 
 Pull out your bills and then call all your providers. Tell them you're paying too much and you want to lower your bill. They can only say no.
 IF THEY SAY NO, THREATEN TO SWITCH As in a teenage romance, your digital providers seem to care about you only when you're about to break up. If you're thinking about switching to another satellite, cable or phone provider, call your current one and let it know. 
 And remember this: The regular customer service representative won't be as empowered as someone in the cancellation department to cut you a better deal.
 ''We will work with our customers to find a package that suits them,'' said Bill Kula, a Verizon spokesman. 
 At their discretion, Verizon sales reps can cut the price of DSL service, offer free months of Internet access, increase the discount on voice service or give a $50 American Express gift card to customers returning to Verizon's television service.
 AT&T gives its employees similar powers to make deals. Reps are known to offer enhanced services for a basic price, and to lower the cost of one service to its bundled price even if you're not buying the bundle. ''If it's a matter of keeping the customer, we'll do the best we can,'' said Fletcher Cook, an AT&T spokesman.
 Satellite and cable companies are also quick to make deals once you tell them you're thinking of bolting. Receiving discounted service, months of free pay TV or low or no-cost DVRs is common.
 BUNDLE YOUR SERVICES With traditional landline ownership dwindling as more customers use only cellphones, the major phone and cable companies are chockablock with packages intended to keep you from straying. AT&T, for example, offers local and unlimited long distance for $40. 
 That price drops to $35 if you also get wireless (but you must tell the company to combine your bills). A $99 package includes unlimited landline service, a DSL connection and wireless service for $10 less than those services would cost if priced separately. The company will also pay new customers $100 to sign up.
 Verizon offers a package of unlimited local and long distance via landline, DSL and 150 channels of DirecTV starting at $80. Unlimited landline voice calling and DSL are $50 a month; depending on the plan, new customers can receive a $125 to $175 rebate. 
 The cable companies have similar packages. For example, Comcast is reducing the price of some of its HD packages by $15 to $20 for the first year. And Time Warner is cutting the package price for its cable, DSL and phone service by $20 a month for one year in some regions.
 RECONSIDER THIRD-PARTY CARRIERS Once, third-party long-distance companies offered cheaper long-distance calling than you could get from your local provider, but that might no longer be the case. Some, like the dial-around service 101-6868 and the prepaid PennyTalk, charge low rates for each minute to Europe and North America, but that's only half the story. 
 They play down the fact that they tack on an additional 39 to 49 cents a call for a ''connection charge,'' raising the real rate substantially. 
 Similarly, Internet calling services that allow you to use your traditional home telephone may not save you money. 
 For instance, Vonage charges $25 a month for unlimited local and domestic long distance and free calls to five European countries. But the service still requires a DSL or cable modem connection. And because that service will not be part of a voice bundle, you may wind up paying the same or more than another phone company would charge if you went with one of its packaged deals.
 ASK FOR CORPORATE DISCOUNTS Many corporations have discounts with the major wireless phone carriers. Bring your corporate business card to a wireless carrier's store or check your company's intranet site for particulars. Depending on the company, you can typically knock $10 off the monthly cost for a smartphone's voice and data plans. 
 MONITOR WEB SITES FOR DEALS Several Web site discussion boards trade secrets on the latest deals and how to get them. For cable and satellite, try AVS Forum (www.avsforum.com) and Satellite Guys (www.satelliteguys.us). Wireless deals can also be found at Fat Wallet (www.fatwallet.com).
 IF ALL ELSE FAILS, DOWNGRADE Do you really need hundreds of TV channels? If not, get rid of cable or satellite, and watch free digital and HD broadcast TV with an antenna. Send faxes from your computer. Cancel your landline and use only your cellphone; if you keep within your allotted minutes you can call anywhere in the United States for no extra charge. And when times get better, you can always add back services one by one. You might actually find that an essential service wasn't needed after all.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEPHONE RATES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



345 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Beauty on a Budget: Advice From a Stylist

BYLINE: By HILARY HOWARD

 BODY:
THESE days, it's not a stretch to find former Henri Bendel loyalists navigating the cosmetics aisles of drugstores, intent on finding that perfect shade of $5 blush. 
 Apparently, they're not alone. A recent report by Mintel, a market research company, said department store makeup shoppers are increasingly trading down to ''drugstore selections'' in the current economy. Data from Information Resources, a Chicago-based research firm, seems to confirm that: through March 22 this year, nationwide drugstore sales for facial cosmetics like foundations and powders have increased by nearly $5.5 million over the same period last year. In other words, more women are hitting places like Duane Reade. But they might need help. 
 ''I don't think anyone should be lost or broke because of makeup,'' Ann Orcutt, a professional makeup artist, said during a recent trip to Duane Reade in Midtown Manhattan, where she pointed out items that she said compare in quality to more expensive labels. ''I did this exact thing recently with a personal trainer from Equinox who was doing a fitness video and had no budget. She was like, 'I have half an hour and no money!' '' 
 Ms. Orcutt, whose clients have included the CNN host A. J. Hammer and the actors Liev Schreiber and Kathy Bates, said she helped the trainer (another client) pick out items that included CoverGirl AquaSmooth Compact Foundation for $9.79 (''the best liquid coverage in a compact liquid/powder format,'' Ms. Orcutt said); CoverGirl Cheekers Blush for $4.39 (''It has a bit of sparkle in it, it's not just a flat color''); L'Oreal Voluminous Mascara for $7.50 (''Makeup artists who trained me eight years ago said that it was the best, and I still think it is''), L'Oreal Le Grand Kohl Eyeliner Pencil in Black Sable for $8.49 (''This is a fantastic dark rich brown that works for everyone'') and Revlon ColorStay 12 Hour Eye Shadow Quad for $6.99 (''This is the only drugstore eye shadow I like'').
 Other items included Neutrogena MoistureShine Lip Gloss for $6.99, L'Oreal Infallible Never Fail Lip Liner for $8.99, and CoverGirl TRUblend Microminerals Finishing Veil, a translucent finishing setting powder, for $12.99. 
 The grand total? $66.13.
 ''High-end versions would have cost upward of $175 easily,'' said Ms. Orcutt, who has used all of the above products on her own face and on the job.
 When splurging on more expensive brands, she emphasized that tunnel vision should be used while visiting upscale stores. ''Know what you want, get it and leave,'' she said. ''Don't get suckered in by monthly promotions and packages, because they usually involve products and colors you don't need.'' 
 Especially when shopping for a good foundation, she said: ''Go to the counter at Henri Bendel or MAC and get professional help. If you try to guess what you need, you'll end up buying something else later -- it's a huge waste of money.''
 As for concealers, she recommends a drugstore brand: Maybelline Instant Age Rewind Double Face Perfector, for about $9. ''This is practically an exact copy of the Yves Saint Laurent Touche Eclat Radiant Touch Highlighter, which costs about $40,'' she said. ''It comes in two shades for mistake-proof blending. I have this in every color in my kit.''
 For women who have basic coverage needs, Ms. Orcutt is a big fan of MAC Mineralize Skinfinish ($25), a dry application that is quick, easy and relatively affordable because it can provide three products in one (foundation, powder and concealer). A drugstore version of this is Neutrogena Mineral Sheers Powder Foundation for $13.59. 
 And makeup brushes? ''There is no way around this: professional brushes last and grab the right amount of product,'' she said, picking out three essentials: Paula Dorf's Total Camouflage Brush for concealer, MAC's No. 129 for powder and blush and MAC's No. 266 for eyeliner. ''I've had the same brushes in my kit for years.'' 
 When it comes to facial cleansers, Ms. Orcutt said, ''There's no point in spending $26 on something with grapeseed extract when you're just going to rinse it off.'' She recommends Olay Foaming Face Wash. ''My skin is at its best when I'm using this stuff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TROPHIES: Ann Orcutt, a makeup artist, with bargains from a drugstore. If you must visit an upscale store, she said, ''Know what you want, get it and leave.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (75%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (83%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (83%); OR (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



346 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: HD Radio Crying Out To Be Heard

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE. 
E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q: How do you make an HD radio executive bang his head against the wall?
 A: Ask him, ''What's HD radio?''
 The HD radio alliance has spent millions of dollars on promotion, ads and educational efforts. Yet even after four years of this, most people still don't have any idea what HD radio is.
 And no wonder. You can't sum up HD radio in a one-line movie pitch (''It's 'Forrest Gump' meets 'The Terminator' !''). It takes a couple of paragraphs to explain it.
 Back in the mists of time (2001-ish), the big bosses of AM and FM were freaked out by the imminent arrival of satellite radio. Satellite was going to offer hundreds of stations, better sound, no fading of stations as you drove from city to city and music channels without any commercials at all. 
 So the big bosses decided to fight technology with technology -- and they came up with HD radio.
 The whole thing simmered along in relative obscurity for several years. But in the last few weeks, a series of milestones and current events have aligned to make HD radio worth another look.
 First, the thousandth American radio station began broadcasting alternative ''multicast'' channels in HD (more on this shortly). 
 Second, the hundredth HD radio model went on sale. And finally, SiriusXM, the ailing satellite radio company, narrowly escaped having to file for bankruptcy.
 All right, then, once and for all: What is HD radio?
 It's a digital broadcast that's cleverly blended in with the analog AM or FM signal that you already get. Same stations, paid for by the same ads, but upgraded for superior digital sound. 
 What the ads say is true: AM stations sound like traditional FM (most are even in stereo), and the FM channels sound like a CD. There's no static, ever.
 Better yet, about half of HD radio stations are taking advantage of multicasting: separate, different FM broadcasts -- shadow channels -- beamed out on the same frequency. They permit radio stations to experiment with niche, experimental and even interactive programming, usually commercial-free. WCBS-HD, an oldies station in New York, for example, has two shadow HD channels: one playing '80s hits and one that's a better-sounding version of the AM news channel.
 And get this: all HD radio broadcasts are free. Take that, $13-a-month satellite!
 O.K., so if HD radio offers so much and costs so little, how come nobody's heard of it? How come fewer than a million people have tuned in?
 One reason: confusion. It took years for the public to grasp satellite radio -- and now we're trying to sell people on yet another kind of radio?
 (The name doesn't help. According to hdradio.com, HD does not stand for high definition; ''it is simply the branding language for this new technology.'')
 Those cool shadow channels are confusing, too. You have to tune in the primary channel first. On some radio models, a ''multicast'' icon appears on the screen, if shadow channels are available. Then you hit the up/down tuning buttons to find the multicast channel. Try explaining that to Granddad.
 HD radio also requires an HD radio receiver. Or, as HD radio's tagline puts it, ''If you don't have an HD radio, you're not hearing HD radio.'' (Is that an advertisement -- or a disclaimer?)
 These radios aren't especially expensive, but the setup can be intimidating to Mr. and Mrs. Average Person. Tabletop HD radios go for $75 and up. Thirteen car companies, mostly small ones, offer option packages that include HD radios. You can add an HD receiver to your existing car, too ($200 and up). There are no pocket HD radios.
 I tried out HD radios at three points on the price spectrum: Jensen's JiMS-525i ($75), Sony's XDR-S10HDiP ($150) and Polk Audio's I-Sonic 2 ($350). All double as iPod/iPhone docks and alarm clocks; like all HD radios, these also get regular AM-FM stations. They're all great-looking and polished; HD radios have steadily improved year after year.
 The marketing doesn't lie: HD radio really does sound better than regular radio. AM loses the tinniness. FM gets richer and deeper.
 You notice the difference instantly if you hear the before-and-after versions of the same channel -- in the online demo at hdradio.com, for example. That's also why the Polk radio's design is so clever: when it tunes into an HD radio station, it first plays a couple of seconds of the regular station before kicking into HD. That way, you keep saying, ''Wow, what a difference! Sure glad I bought that radio!''
 Without the side-by-side test, though, you're not so aware of what you're missing.
 An HD radio's screen identifies the station, song title and performer (as some FM radios do now). My test models also offer song tagging: if your iPod is inserted in the radio when a good song comes on, you can press a Tag button on the radio. Later, when you sync the iPod with your computer, that song's information shows up in iTunes, so you can remember that song and (of course) buy it. It works flawlessly.
 All three of these radios come with substantial AM and FM antennas. The FM one is a six-foot, T-shaped cord that you mount on a wall -- not the greatest decor enhancement, that's for sure.
 Even then, tuning in HD stations is slow -- scanning takes several seconds each. Worse, the number of stations can be limited in your area. Digital radio is like digital TV: as the signal gets weaker, you don't get static -- you just lose the station altogether.
 In my Connecticut town, I pulled down four fantastic-sounding FM HD radio stations -- but not a single AM station or multicasting FM station. Those stations didn't appear until I tried again closer to Manhattan.
 To get a wider sampling, I asked my 100,000 Twitter followers if they'd tried HD radio. Sixteen people responded.
 A dozen wrote that they love the audio quality and, in particular, the variety of those shadow (multicast) FM channels.
 Half of them complained, however, about reception problems like ''hunting,'' where the radio switches back and forth between the HD and regular versions of a channel.
 Three respondents work in the radio industry. All three expressed doubts about HD radio's survival. They cited the cost for radio stations to outfit themselves for HD broadcasts, and for consumers to buy the radios.
 The biggest worry, according to one radio guy, is the concept. What draws radio customers isn't sound quality, it's programming. Take satellite radio: it's not the audio fidelity that draws an audience, it's those 300 (mostly commercial-free) channels -- featuring the likes of Howard Stern, Major League Baseball, Martha Stewart and others, as well as dozens of narrowly programmed music stations. HD's multicast channels could fulfill much the same mission, but these days, few stations have the money or manpower to work on HD channels.
 That explains the five Twitter pals who independently mentioned that they listen to Internet radio more than HD radio these days, especially on the iPhone. It may not sound as good, but wow, what programming -- radio stations from all over the world, all available free.
 On the face of it, HD radio is more exciting than it's getting credit for. Plans include traffic reports on the radio screen and special pay-per-view audio events.
 And HD radio still offers local news and views. Satellite channels are generally national.
 The numbers look good, too. Two thousand radio stations are now broadcasting in HD, 70 car models are available with built-in receivers.But the number that counts -- people actually listening to HD radio -- is shockingly low. Unless the economy turns around, unless satellite goes away, unless reception improves, unless HD gets a reputation for great shows (and not just great sound), HD may have a tough slog ahead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among the receivers for HD radio is the Sony XDR-S10HDiP, which is also an iPod dock.(pg. B8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE RADIO (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (53%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



347 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Tapping Business Skills That Already Exist

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
ENTREPRENEURIAL impulses can be stirred to life by the most unexpected influences.
 In Donna Young's case, it was culture shock. Ms. Young grew up on the sparsely populated Andros Island in the Bahamas with 10 siblings and had long pursued a professional career. But after she married Larry Young, an architect, and moved to Epping, N.H., in 2003, she struggled to adjust to New England's taciturn ways. ''I was the only black woman in my work place,'' she said. ''A lot of the time, I felt I didn't fit in. I felt I had to be best at everything I did.''
 Ms. Young's entrepreneurial side surfaced not long after she arrived in the United States. She began sending her sister, Patrice Joseph, women's hats and custom jewelry to resell at a profit in Nassau, where prices are much higher. Then, Ms. Joseph moved to the island of Abaco and discovered that upscale clothing was so hard to find there that many residents flew to Nassau or even Florida to stock up. 
 It was an unexploited niche, and the two women moved in. Each invested $10,000 to start a 600-square-foot women's clothing boutique in Abaco's main town of Marsh Harbor last September.
 It is a tiny business, but it has changed Ms. Young's life. ''I feel so free now,'' she said. 
 Ms. Young comes from an entrepreneurial family. Her grandmother ran a convenience store and bar. Her father owned two service stations on Andros and was the sole supplier of gasoline to the region. After he was shot to death in a 1994 robbery, her mother took it over. One of her brothers presides over a scrap metal operation.
 But Ms. Young sought a job with a steady income, ultimately becoming a human relations manager at the Atlantis resort on an island off the capital city of Nassau. It was there that she met Mr. Young. After their marriage, she assisted Mr. Young at his architectural firm in New Hampshire and later got a job at a utility company.
 She said she had long wanted to take the plunge into small business but did not because ''I was a single mom for several years and couldn't take the risk.'' But when she moved to the United States, she said, creating a start-up filled a void and became ''a passion for me.''
 Now, Ms. Joseph runs the shop and Ms. Young, 44, supplies it.
 First, she scours stores in New Hampshire and Maine for bargain designer brands. On shopping sprees that can last days, ''I try to hit all the T. J. Maxxes, Marshalls and even Macy's stores within driving distance,'' she said.
 Then, she packs them, very tightly, in suitcases. ''I can get a city in a suitcase,'' she boasts.
 Finally, she and her husband drive to Boston and fly to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. They take the SeaEscape cruise ship to Grand Bahama Island and, the next day, board a cabin cruiser to Abaco, where her sister picks her up.
 It is on that final sea voyage that Mr. Young sometimes stands out in the crowd. ''I'm like a shipping agent,'' he says, adding that on his wife's shopping expeditions, he is an ''advance scout'' for evaluating men's wear.
 Mr. Young marvels at her sales skills, a must attribute for any entrepreneur. When she is in the Abaco store, he says, ''It's incredible how she interacts with women. A lot of them walk out carrying a couple of hundred dollars' worth of clothes they probably never expected to own.''
 Just For You Boutique is currently recording sales of about $2,500 a week and is profitable. The only major misstep the sisters have made was their initial decision to aim at slim women; their best customers turned out to be women who required larger sizes.
 They have resolved that problem and are putting aside most of their earnings for future expansion. Their next step is to introduce a limited selection of men's and children's apparel. And at some point, they intend to move into larger quarters and maybe open a second store on Grand Bahama.
 Small as her enterprise is, it shows that small businesses can succeed at the outset of a recession and do so across borders even as trade barriers are going up in the global economy.
 It illustrates something else, as well: the infectiousness of entrepreneurial enthusiasm. As she was making plans for the shop, Ms. Young traded ideas with her hairdresser, Bernice Jahn, a white South African transplant and her closest friend in the United States.
 Ms. Jahn, 48, had run several businesses in her native land and, it turned out, had entrepreneurial ambitions of her own. She often accompanied Ms. Young on her shopping tours, she said, and her friend, in turn, ''gave me ideas'' about the venture she was working on, a 2,000-square-foot spa in Greenland, N.H.
 In early May, Ms. Jahn expects to open the center, named Zakanaka Day Spa after the word for thankfulness in the language of the Shona people of Zimbabwe. In addition to providing hair styling and skin and nail care, she said, Zakanaka will introduce a new nonsurgical hair replacement procedure. It will also be selling African artifacts, with some of the profits going to help artists and poor children in Africa.
 Speaking of Ms. Young, she said, ''We came to this country within months of each other and we started businesses within months of each other. Donna's working with her country, and I'm working with mine. I guess you could say it's the American dream.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donna Young, shopping at a department store in Portsmouth, N.H., will resell what she buys at her store in the Bahamas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); WOMEN (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); GAS STATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (63%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (82%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (82%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MAINE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); BAHAMAS (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



348 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Colleges In 3 States To Set Basics For Degrees

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
In the first American effort of its kind, universities and colleges in Indiana, Minnesota and Utah are starting pilot projects to make sure that degree programs in their states reflect a consensus about what specific knowledge and skills should be taught. 
 Instead of defining degrees by the courses taken or the credits earned, the three states will establish what students must learn. In the pilot project, supported by the Lumina Foundation for Education, a private group in Indianapolis that works to expand access to higher education, Indiana will draft learning standards for education, history and chemistry degrees; Utah for history and physics; and Minnesota for graphic design and chemistry. 
 The project, announced Wednesday, is based on the principles of the decade-long Bologna Process, named for the Italian city where European higher-education authorities agreed to seek an alliance in which thousands of institutions of higher education in dozens of countries would award degrees based on comparable standards. In Latin America, 18 countries have begun their own process, known among educators as tuning, and many other countries around the world are tracking the Bologna Process closely. 
 The goal is to give universities, students and employers in a global economy enough quality assurance and comparability that wherever a student obtains a degree, it would stand for the same thing and be widely accepted.
 In the United States, there is little understanding, or consensus, about what a particular degree at a particular institution stands for, said Clifford Adelman, of the Institute for Higher Education Policy, an expert on the Bologna Process. 
 ''Go to a university catalog and look at the degree requirements for a particular discipline,'' Mr. Adelman said. ''It says something like, 'You take Anthropology 101, then Anthro 207, then you have a choice of Anthro 310, 311, or 312. We require the following courses, and you've got to have 42 credits.' That means absolutely nothing.'' 
 The new approach, he said, would detail specific skills to be learned: ''If you're majoring in chemistry, here is what I expect you to learn in terms of laboratory skills, theoretical knowledge, applications, the intersection of chemistry with other sciences, and broader questions of environment and forensics.'' 
 In each state, the project includes education officials and faculty members and students from a wide variety of institutions.
 Minnesota's team, for example, includes such disparate institutions as the University of Minnesota; Carleton College, an elite liberal-arts college; and North Hennepin Community College. One goal of the tuning process is to make it easier for students with associate's degrees to get full credit as they continue on to bachelor's and master's degrees.
 The announcement of the pilot project was timed to the release of a report by Mr. Adelman, ''The Bologna Process for U.S. Eyes: Re-Learning Higher Education in the Age of Convergence.''
 While the Lumina project will design a framework, and reference points, for different degrees, it will not standardize curriculums. Each university would still determine, for itself, how best to teach the required skills. 
 ''This is not a top-down process,'' said Jamie P. Merisotis, president of Lumina. ''It's a faculty-led discussion about what students need to know. The ways you can get to students demonstrating certain skills are infinite.'' 
 Still, there are concerns that too much tuning could stifle some voices, interfering with academic freedom. 
 ''One of the aims of the tuning process is to produce comparability,'' said Cary Nelson, president of the American Association of University Professors. ''But if you're teaching history of physics and for you it becomes central to teach the development of the atomic bomb, it may be difficult to shape your course in a way that is completely understandable to history-of-physics courses elsewhere. Being able to decide how you're going to shape and weight your course is central to academic freedom.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (63%); FORENSICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ITALY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



349 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: SMALL INVESTORS MAY BE ENLISTED IN BANK BAILOUT

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
During World War I, Americans were exhorted to buy Liberty Bonds to help their soldiers on the front. 
 Now, it seems, they will be asked to come to the aid of their banks -- with the added inducement of possibly making some money for themselves. 
 As part of its sweeping plan to purge banks of troublesome assets, the Obama administration is encouraging several large investment companies to create the financial-crisis equivalent of war bonds: bailout funds.
 The idea is that these investments, akin to mutual funds that buy stocks and bonds, would give ordinary Americans a chance to profit from the bailouts that are being financed by their tax dollars. But there is another, deeply political motivation as well: to quiet accusations that all of these giant bailouts will benefit only Wall Street plutocrats.
 The potential risks -- politically for the administration, and financially for would-be investors -- are considerable. 
 The funds, the thinking goes, would buy troubled mortgage securities from banks, enabling the lenders to make the loans that are needed to rekindle the economy. Many of the loans that back these securities were made during the subprime era. If all goes well, the funds will eventually sell the investments at a profit. 
 But, as with any investment, there are risks. If, as some analysts suspect, the banks' assets are worth even less than believed, the funds' investors could suffer significant losses. Nonetheless, the administration and executives in the financial industry are pushing to establish the investment funds, in part to counter swelling hostility against the financial industry. 
 Many Americans are outraged that companies like the American International Group paid out many millions in bonuses despite crippling losses and multibillion-dollar rescues from Washington. 
 The embrace of smaller investors underscores the concern in Washington and on Wall Street that Americans' anger could imperil further efforts to stimulate the economy with vast amounts of government spending. Many Americans say they believe the bailout programs -- and the potentially rich profits they could yield -- will benefit only a golden few, including some of the institutions that helped push the economy to the brink. 
 ''This is an opportunity to forge an alliance between Main Street, Wall Street and K Street,'' said Steven A. Baffico, an executive at BlackRock, referring to the Washington address of many lobbying firms. BlackRock, a giant money management firm, is playing a central role in the government's efforts and is considering creating a bailout fund. ''It's giving the guy on Main Street an equal seat at the table next to the big guys,'' he said. 
 The new funds are still under discussion, and they are unlikely to be established for several months, if indeed the plans go through at all. 
 But the comparison one industry official uses to illustrate the mistake that America must avoid is the large-scale privatization in Russia in the 1990s, which involved a transfer of entire industries to a few, well-connected oligarchs. That experience tarnished the idea of free-market capitalism in Russia and undermined its program to move toward a market economy. 
 ''It is really, really important to allow Main Street in,'' said the official, who was involved in discussions about the plan but who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about it publicly. ''They are getting taxed for this problem. They should have an opportunity to participate in the recovery.''
 Still, it is unlikely that everyday investors would play a major role in financing the bailouts through these funds. Hedge funds and other private investment firms are expected to invest far more money. The Treasury has not said how much money it intends to raise from individuals; first it wants to select about five fund managers to participate in the program to buy beaten-down securities. These firms must demonstrate an ability to raise about $2.5 billion among them. It may select several more fund managers later.
 Perhaps more important than the money would be the political bonus of having thousands or even millions of taxpayers -- whose portfolios have nose-dived during the crisis and whose tax dollars are financing bank bailouts and stimulus packages -- profit from the toxic asset plan. 
 To head off the political risk of using public subsidies to move the assets from banks into the hands of private investors, the Treasury has already announced that, as part of its plan, it will retain part ownership of the toxic securities and loans, thus ensuring that taxpayers will share some of the gain if the assets' prices rise.
 But the plan to allow small investors to participate directly with their own money goes further. 
 Critics like Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, argue that the bailouts merely privatize profits and socialize losses. 
 But if the plan goes well, including everyday Americans as buyers of the assets may encourage them to support the government's program and avoid another American International Group-style firestorm. If investors lose money, however, the effort could backfire. 
 ''If this turns out to be great but you have kept it away from Mom and Pop and the rich are favored, that looks bad, but it's also bad if you have people who are burned,'' said Jay D. Grushkin, a partner at the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. 
 Some of the biggest investment managers in the United States, including BlackRock and Pimco, have been consulting with the government on ways to rebuild the country's broken financial markets. 
 On the day the plan was announced by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, both Bill Gross, the co-chief investment officer of Pimco, described it as a ''win-win-win policy,'' and 
 Laurence D. Fink, BlackRock's chairman and chief executive, said his firm would take part. 
 The fund industry has been in discussion with the government but insists the Treasury has not been prescriptive about the type of funds it wants established. In its letters to potential investors, however, the Treasury requires fund managers to set out how they will include retail investors, saying applicants ''must note whether, and if so how, it plans to structure the fund to facilitate the participation of retail investors in the fund.'' 
 Individuals could participate in the funds by investing just a few hundred dollars, although the details are still being worked out.
 If selected -- likely to happen by mid-May -- money managers like BlackRock could begin a fund within weeks. 
 As well as BlackRock and Pimco, Legg Mason, another big mutual fund company, and BNY Mellon Asset Management, a big asset manager, have said they are interested in starting retail investment funds to participate in the government's plan.
 For the investment managers, the benefits are potentially large. These big firms can charge healthy fees to investors for taking part. They will also have the marketing prestige of being the firms the government turns to at a time of crisis to help sort out the country's financial mess. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice Black Rosemaur, a Boy Scout, in 1918 with a Liberty Bond poster in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FPG/HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LOBBYING (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



350 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Downfall of a Regulator

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Financial regulators engaged in a race to the bottom in the years leading up to the credit crisis. The clear winner is the Office of Thrift Supervision, the agency that served as financial regulator to a motley crew of losers, including Countrywide, Washington Mutual, IndyMac and the American International Group. It deserves to be shuttered.
 Other regulators haven't exactly covered themselves with glory. In sheer numbers, more small state-chartered banks regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have failed. The government's determination that Citigroup was too big to fail saved the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency from having the biggest loss on its hands. 
 But the O.T.S.'s many failings exhibited strong symptoms of what economists call regulatory capture -- that is to say, a regulator's taking the side of the industry it regulates. Some signs are trivial but telling. It called institutions under its oversight ''customers.'' Others are extraordinary. It allowed multiple institutions, among them the failed IndyMac, to backdate capital infusions so that earlier quarterly financial statements looked healthier than they would have.
 Without this action, IndyMac probably would have closed its doors sooner, possibly reducing associated losses to the F.D.I.C. and depositors by reducing the bleeding that usually increases as undercapitalized financial institutions stagger on. Scott Polakoff was replaced as acting head of the O.T.S. and put on leave at the end of March while the backdating matter is being investigated.
 The reasons for the agency's failure are manifold. The minimal number of bank failures in the middle of the decade bred widespread complacency among all financial regulators. The Bush administration tended to sympathize with the idea that markets regulate better than federal agencies. And the growth of unregulated mortgage brokers and other nonbank financial companies made even O.T.S. oversight look stringent by comparison.
 But O.T.S.'s financing also probably played a role. The agency's budget comes almost entirely from fees levied on the institutions it regulates. Fees are based upon asset size. This structure gives O.T.S. a potential incentive to first try to lure financial institutions into becoming savings and loan associations and then look the other way if they enlarge their asset bases through questionable lending.
 These conflicts of interest were worsened by financial consolidation. A handful of institutions accounted for much of the agency's budget; Washington Mutual, for example, provided about 12 percent of its operating funds, according to Patricia McCoy, a University of Connecticut law professor who has testified to the Senate on the matter.
 The O.T.S. rejects the notion that it encouraged or even temporarily benefited from regulatory arbitrage. But this is hard to square with history. Countrywide switched to the O.T.S. in early 2007, a move that did consolidate the company's oversight but was also widely attributed to the attractions of the agency's perceived lighter touch.
 That switch meant four of the five biggest issuers of option adjustable-rate mortgages, a particularly virulent form of mortgage loan that a former O.T.S. head, John Reich, had praised in speeches, were under O.T.S. supervision. The fallout from the housing downturn forced Countrywide into Bank of America's arms. The other three -- IndyMac, Downey Financial and Washington Mutual -- failed.
 So what can be done to prevent a repeat? Financing regulatory agencies at least partly through Congressional appropriations rather than user fees might help cut the ties between industry and regulators. It's no panacea, though.
 The predecessor to the O.T.S. was abolished precisely because lawmakers leaned on regulators, threatening to cut their budgets, to stop an investigation into Lincoln Savings and Loan, the institution controlled by Charles Keating that subsequently failed. But at least the distance between regulator and regulated is greater when funds come from Congress.
 A better idea is regulatory consolidation on the federal level, with broad new statutes that apply to surviving regulatory bodies. For example, underwriting should be based on consumers' ability to repay. Common lending standards on sensible principles would limit the wiggle room in which toxic lending products thrive. And reducing the number of agencies reduces regulatory arbitrage.
 After all, Washington bureaucrats gain prestige and influence by winning turf wars, not unlike the private sector companies they oversee. Minimize the ground that can be fought over, and financial institutions have less ability to play one official off against another. ROBERT CYRAN
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers in California waited for an IndyMac branch to reopen last July.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIEL BOUYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); CLOSINGS (66%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (63%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (63%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



351 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Seven Picked for 2011 Debut of Annual Orchestra Festival

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
Not this May, not next May, but in the May after that, Spring for Music, an independent annual festival of North American orchestras at Carnegie Hall, is finally to come to life. Long lead times are nothing new in classical music, but they are not always so acutely felt, since there is usually plenty happening in the meantime.
 Here, so far, there are only prospects and plans. On Thursday, the festival's creators will announce the seven orchestras selected from 25 applicants for that first outing of May 6 to 14, 2011. They are the Albany, Atlanta, Dallas, Montreal, Oregon and Toledo Symphony Orchestras and the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra. The Albany, Toledo and Oregon ensembles will be making their Carnegie debuts. 
 The administrators will also announce a grant of $1 million from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which they say will ensure the first three festivals.
 First made public last June, the series is intended to encourage orchestras to program imaginatively, without regard to marketing considerations. The marketing and ticket sales (with most seats priced at $25, a few at $15) will be handled by the festival.
 The programs for 2011 will be announced early that year, when tickets go on sale. But in a conversation on Wednesday the organizers -- David V. Foster, president of the management firm Opus 3 Artists; Thomas W. Morris, a former executive director of the Cleveland Orchestra and the artistic director of the Ojai Festival in California; and Mary Lou Falcone, a public-relations consultant -- gave two examples to illustrate the criteria involved in the selection process. The main idea is for the orchestras to present programs that have special meaning for them and speak to their individual missions.
 The Dallas Symphony will perform a single work, Steven Stucky's ''August 4, 1964,'' an oratorio with a libretto by Gene Scheer commissioned by the orchestra to commemorate the centenary of Lyndon B. Johnson's birth last year. Jaap van Zweden, the orchestra's new music director, conducted the work's premiere in September, and he will be making his conducting debut at Carnegie. (He played there as a violinist in the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam.)
 In sharpest contrast, the Albany Symphony will present a program of 10 works, with George Tsontakis's ''Let the River Be Unbroken'' and Copland's ''Appalachian Spring'' framing eight pieces from its Spirituals Project, contemporary settings of spirituals for baritone and orchestra. David Alan Miller will conduct.
 Those two programs will account for 10 of the 12 living composers represented in the festival. They also get as far away as possible from the all too standard concert formula: an overture followed by a concerto followed by a symphony. Mr. Morris, in fact, professes to a perverse pride in the complete absence of a three-work program from the festival.
 To minimize any suspicion that the playing field might be tilted in favor of their own clients, the organizers have entrusted the selection entirely to Mr. Morris, who once managed the Boston Symphony as well as the Cleveland Orchestra and whose few clients now include the Philadelphia Orchestra, which is in serious administrative disarray. None of those ensembles are so far represented.
 Each festival, the organizers say, will cost about $1.5 million. The Mellon grant -- $500,000 of which must be matched 2 to 1, by $1 million from the festival -- will contribute significantly to the $4.6 million the project will need to carry the festival through four years.
 And the vagaries of the economy? ''It's either the worst time to be starting something like this or the best time,'' Mr. Morris said. One way or the other, a lot of financial water is sure to flow under the bridge in the two years before the first note is sounded. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jaap van Zweden conducting the Dallas Symphony in Steven Stucky's ''August 4, 1964,'' in memory of Lyndon B. Johnson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON KINDIG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (52%) OREGON, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



352 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Your Bra Size: The Truth May (Pleasantly) Surprise You

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
FIRST there was economic inflation. Then there was grade inflation. Now comes cup inflation.
 While clothes designers have whittled down dress sizes so that even a musclebound woman can wiggle into a size 2, brassiere makers are defying fashion convention by selling bras with bigger cup sizes. These days, many women -- to their shock or glee -- are finding that DD is becoming the new C.
 At Wacoal America, one of the largest bra makers in the country, 36DD is on track to replace 36D as its most popular size in 2009. (Three years ago it was 36C.) Bare Necessities, an online lingerie retailer, said 34DD was its No. 10 best-selling size last year, up from No. 17 in 2002. And this fall Elle Macpherson Intimates will introduce its first collection for fuller-busted women, offering cup sizes from D to G. 
 ''It's the ascendancy of the DDs,'' said Noah Wrubel, the chief executive of Bare Necessities. ''The bras that women are wearing these days are not their mothers' bras.''
 Theories abound as to why women's cups seem to be (forgive the pun) spilling over. Some ascribe the difference to a confluence of health and beauty trends that have accelerated over time. A 2007 study of adult women by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that the prevalence of obesity -- someone having a body mass index of 30 or more -- has increased 2.1 percent since 2004, to 35.3 percent. Breast augmentation, too, is still a popular procedure, despite the recession. And age and hormones play havoc with baby boomers' bust sizes, as well. But most manufacturers and lingerie shop owners say the phenomenon is due to the fact that more women are being fitted correctly. They call it the Oprah effect. Since 2005, when Oprah Winfrey devoted a show to how to buy the right size bra, the number of women seeking bra fittings has soared. 
 ''It was a turning point,'' said Liz Smith, director of retail service at Wacoal America, which is considering adding an H cup to its line. ''You just need her to say it once.''
 About 8 in 10 women wear the wrong size, experts say. Most often the problem is that the stretchy fabric band around the rib cage is worn too loosely for smaller frames. A more snug band size -- going from, say, a 34 to a 32 -- increases the width and depth of the cup. Simply put, a woman who wears a 36A is also likely to fit into a 34B or a 32C.
 But while some women find pride in their newly discovered abundance, others have mixed feelings. ''Most women are in bra denial,'' said Rebecca Apsan, the owner of La Petite Coquette in Manhattan whose biggest sellers last year were 32D and 32DD. ''They think there is some mistake. That's why I never tell them what size I am putting them in. They don't want to believe it.''
 Susie Essman, the actress who plays Susie Greene on the HBO comedy ''Curb Your Enthusiasm,'' can relate. In 2005 HBO showed an episode in which Larry David goes shopping for a bra for his housekeeper and is shocked at the size of Ms. Greene's bra. In a case of art imitating life, Ms. Essman was surprised last year when she was fitted for a 32DD bra after wearing a 34D for decades. She liked the fit, she said, but was forced to grapple with stereotypes she associated with women who filled a DD cup. Among them? Anna Nicole Smith was reported to have worn that size.
 ''I haven't had surgery,'' Ms. Essman said. ''I don't walk around with a lot of cleavage. I'm in a DD, and I'm a regular-sized person.''
 Unlike with dress sizes, there is no standard among foreign or domestic brands, adding to the confusion. British brands can range from A to K. Most Americans can find bras with cup sizes ranging from A to G, although some brands go as high as L. 
 ''It is extremely subjective,'' said Steven Teitelbaum, a cosmetic surgeon based in Santa Monica, Calif., who specializes in breast augmentation. ''I wish they would get their act together and get their sizes straight.''
 Recently, Danny Koch, an owner of the Town Shop, a lingerie store in Manhattan, was examining bras by the bra maker Fayreform at its Midtown Manhattan showroom. Fayreform, which specializes in bras with cup sizes from D to G, also makes bras for Elle Macpherson Intimates. Mr. Koch was there to see their new full-busted offerings, some of which he hoped to sell in his store.
 ''See this?'' he said, stretching the strap of one. ''This is not going to hold someone up.'' Of the more than 14 new bras he was shown, he was impressed with only one. He does not believe that the changes are due to vanity sizing -- ''You, too, can be bigger without surgery!'' he joked -- which is supposed to make a woman feel better. ''There is a reason women are wearing these things,'' he said. ''It is an attempt to defy gravity as long as possible.''
 Still, a larger cup can come with bragging rights particularly in figure-conscious Los Angeles. ''Many girls say, 'Wait until my husband finds out I'm not a 34B, I'm a 32X!' '' said Lisa Frank, the owner of Footsie in Santa Monica.
 Consider Lee Michel. She bought her 36A bras at a department store. She never cared about size. But recently she went for her first fitting at Footsie and walked out with a couple of La Perla 34C-size bras. She was more than pleased.
 ''I think it's a little psychological,'' she said, of the smaller band size. ''It makes me feel a little thinner.'' And did she tell her husband about her new bust size? ''No,'' she said, laughing. ''He really doesn't care what size my breasts are. He just likes them. He liked them before I got pregnant. He liked them after. What can I say? He just likes them.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about bra sizes referred incorrectly to the Fayreform and Elle Macpherson Intimates lingerie brands. They are both manufactured by Bendon; Fayreform does not make bras for Elle Macpherson Intimates. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALISON SEIFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGERIE (90%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (90%); LINGERIE MFG (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); OBESITY (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); BABY BOOMERS (50%)

COMPANY: WACOAL AMERICA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (57%); SIC2341 WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (57%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



353 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words

 BODY:
FORD'S ROAD TO SURVIVAL The Ford Motor Company is on a course to remain independent and survive the worst new-vehicle market in nearly 30 years, mainly because of a decision made three years ago to borrow billions of dollars from banks. 
 The Treasury Department has made $5 billion available to help automotive parts makers survive the industry's slump. [B4.] 
 INVEST IN A BAILOUT The Obama administration is urging the creation of bailout funds -- investments like mutual funds that would give Americans a chance to profit from bailouts. [A1.] 
 DOWNGRADE FOR BERKSHIRE Moody's has stripped away the triple-A rating of Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett. [B1.] 
 INSURING SURVIVAL Life insurers seeking billions through the Troubled Asset Relief Program could face reviews from the Treasury Department as it tries to determine which companies are viable. [B1.] 
 'STRESS TEST' RESULTS No banks are expected to fail the federal ''stress tests'' they are undergoing, but many lenders will need to be bailed out again. [B1.] 
 REINING IN SHORT-SELLING The Securities and Exchange Commission announced proposals to curb short-selling. [B3.] 
 DEAL TO BUILD DESTROYERSGeneral Dynamics and Northrop Grumman agreed to share in the construction of three of the Navy's multibillion-dollar stealth destroyers. [B3.] 
 FED'S CONCERNS Minutes of a recent Federal Reserve meeting reflect concerns over a drastic economic weakening in the United States and across the world. [B3.] 
 A BUSINESS REVIVAL When she married an architect and settled in New Hampshire, Donna Young, left, initially struggled away from her native Bahamas. But now she shops for a boutique in the islands, and her entrepreneurial side has flourished. [B6.] 
 KEEPING KOSHER To ensure that everyone has a place at the Passover Seder, Evanger's Dog and Cat Food Company offers a line of kosher pet foods, endorsed by the Chicago Rabbinical Council. Advertising. [B9.] 
 MARKET TURNS UPWARD Insurance and technology shares helped end a two-day slide, but jitters over looming earnings reports kept buyers in check. [B11.] 
 NONMONETARY COSTS The economic downturn is behind a big increase in reports of anxiety, depression and stress, therapists say. [A1.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); RETAILERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); PET FOODS (67%); PASSOVER (62%); CATS (62%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); US NAVY (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



354 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Climate Legislation Sends Chill Through Areas Fueled by Coal

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
Chatting with a visitor about energy issues in the back of the Greater Mount Carmel Baptist Church here, a group of women exploded in laughter at the idea that their electric rates were among the lowest in the nation. 
 ''We can barely afford what we have now,'' said Renee Daniels-Hanner, 48, an office manager who lives with her husband, a postal employee, and their teenage daughter in a three-bedroom brick home in the city's Baden neighborhood. 
 The house, built in 1953, has central air-conditioning to ward off the heat and humidity of Mississippi River summers, a double-door refrigerator, a washer and dryer, six televisions, three computers and an iron (''We iron all the time,'' Ms. Daniels-Hanner said). The family's monthly electric bill averages $160 in winter and $250 in summer. 
 From the wheat fields of the north-central region to Kansas City's necklace of industrial parks to the brick street fronts of St. Louis, Missouri's reliance on cheap electricity is deeply ingrained. 
 But few pay attention to the origin of their little-noticed savings: 21 coal-fired power plants that emit more than 75 million tons of carbon dioxide annually and generate 80 percent of Missouri's electricity. Even residents who endorse wind and solar energy have grown accustomed to the benefits of state policies that favor coal by putting a premium on low-cost electricity. So the idea of federal climate legislation that could increase electricity bills by putting a price on emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide is unsettling.
 For Missourians, said Robert Clayton, chairman of the state's Public Service Commission, ''the consequence of using more power hasn't been great.'' 
 Missouri is hardly alone. Nebraska, Indiana and Iowa are also states where coal turns on most of the lights. 
 That is why, even before Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats, proposed legislation that would put a price on carbon-dioxide emissions, Senate and House Democrats from coal-using states began to push back.
 They are concerned that the new costs would get passed on to consumers, to Ms. Daniels-Hanner, to farmers from rural Missouri and to employers like the energy-hungry Noranda aluminum plant in New Madrid in the southeast of the state, which has 1,000 workers. And they worry that in an already wounded economy, increased costs could turn one of the relatively few economic blessings into a blight. 
 Here in Missouri, economic incentives built into the state's laws, history and habits encourage burning as much coal as possible. Peabody Energy started as a local business a century ago and now promotes itself as the world's leading coal merchant. Trainloads of Wyoming coal cross Missouri daily. 
 The cars arrive at places like Meramec, a 56-year-old, 850-megawatt power plant in south St. Louis County. The cost of building the sprawling plant has long since been paid off by its owner, AmerenUE, an investor-owned utility. Because Meramec generates electricity from cheap fuel, it produces cheap power. And because Meramec's operational costs are low and most equipment-replacement costs have been recouped, AmerenUE often underbids competitors in selling excess electricity out of state. These profits give Missouri consumers an extra discount. From 1987 to 2007, AmerenUE and its predecessor, Union Electric, did not raise electric rates, while power production rose about 65 percent.
 Estimates of the effects of the proposed federal climate legislation on electric rates vary. The central thrust of the Waxman-Markey bill is to make carbon-dioxide emissions expensive by capping them and creating allowances that utilities must acquire to function. 
 In Washington, the measure is seen as a starting point and has little Republican support, which would make the backing of coal-state Democrats like Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri critical. 
 Jaime Haro, AmerenUE's director of asset management and trading, said his company paid $30 to produce a megawatt of electricity. The coal burned emits roughly a ton of carbon dioxide. If federal legislation effectively prices emissions at $30 a ton -- estimates have varied from $20 to $115 -- ''my costs could double,'' Mr. Haro said.
 Those costs probably would be passed on to customers. 
 For now, Missouri ranks among the lowest five states in retail electricity rates -- about 6.3 cents per kilowatt hour, compared with a national average of 8.9 cents.
 Ms. Daniels-Hanner and LaVerne McCoy find that surprising. Ms. McCoy, who works for a community-based group, ADE Consulting Services, has spent $4,000 weatherizing her split-level home in Richmond Heights, just west of St. Louis. Her bills still average $320 monthly.
 About 130 miles to the northwest, Wendi Wood, a teacher, and her husband, Lee Wood, a fourth-generation farmer, live near the small town of Clarence with their three teenagers. Their six-bedroom house is four years old, and they, too, have many appliances, including seven televisions.
 Electricity costs them about $280 in winter, $360 in summer. After the fall harvest, they dry grain in a silo; then the bills run $600 a month.
 ''Electricity is a major factor in what we can afford,'' Ms. Wood said. She wants Washington to fight climate change, but said, ''Don't hurt the rural farmer and rural America to do it.'' 
 The state is taking some steps to reduce its dependence on coal, like legislation pending in the General Assembly to give financial incentives for conservation. In November, voters approved expanding renewable-energy options.
 State utilities have varied plans. AmerenUE talks of building a companion to its nuclear power plant. Kansas City Power & Light is buying more wind power to offset emissions from a coal plant under construction. Springfield's municipal utility is experimenting with underground storage of carbon dioxide. Associated Electrical Cooperative Inc. offers energy-saving light bulbs to its 800,000 rural customers and subsidizes home energy audits.
 ''Ultimately, there's going to have to be a re-evaluation of Missouri's future,'' Mr. Clayton said.
 Like Ms. Wood, Ms. Daniels-Hanner and Ms. McCoy worry about the effects of climate change.
 ''We want to help our grandchildren,'' Ms. McCoy said. ''My problem is that the brunt of the improvement is going to be put on the backs of those who can't afford it.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Missouri's dependence on coal misstated the unit of measurement in giving the amount of money that the utility AmerenUE spends to produce electricity. The cost is $30 to produce a megawatt-hour of electricity, not a megawatt of electricity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of the 21 coal-fired power plants in Missouri that emit more than 75 million tons of carbon dioxide annually and generate 80 percent of the state's electricity.
LaVerne McCoy weatherized her home near St. Louis in the hope of lowering her electricity bill.
 Power lines at the Meramec coal plant in St. Louis County.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); HVAC SYSTEMS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); FUEL DEALERS (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (66%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (58%); EDWARD J MARKEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



355 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Nationwide, classes of doga -- yoga with dogs, as it is called -- are increasing in both number and popularity. Additional images accompany the story.
 nytimes.com/style 
 Opinion
 Timothy Egan The Guns of Spring
 We shouldn't avert our eyes from the grim run of gun-related multiple murders in the United States.
 nytimes.com/egan
 The Choice 
 You're In. Now What?
 Just before many accepted college applicants will mail in deposits, The Choice Blog is soliciting reader questions about the end-game of this process, specifically at undergraduate institutions. Answering selected questions will be two former college admissions officers who now work as college counselors at prestigious private high schools. 
 nytimes.com/thechoice
 AUDIO: TRASH TO TREASURE
 Randy Polumbo, a sculptor and a contractor, talks about his handmade home in the California desert, which was made largely with recycled and found objects.
 nytimes.com/home
 City Room
 Unleavened Bread Line
 A look at documents from the ''Association for Free Distribution of Matzos to the Poor,'' a group that formed 151 years ago to make sure New Yorkers in need had matzos for Passover. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 SLIDESHOW: KICK OFF YOUR FLOPPY SHOES
 A panorama takes readers behind the scenes at Madison Square Garden, where a private room for the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus clowns is strewn with colorful props and hundred-year-old steamer trunks filled with antiques. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 City Room
 Imagining a New Logo
 Several graphic identity proposals for 1 World Trade Center have been selected to conclude last week's competition. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: TECH TALK PODCAST
 This week: A discussion with John Buckman, the founder of bookmooch.com, an online global community of book-swappers; ways to cut your cable, phone and Internet bills; and new tools that let your computer read to you. 
 nytimes.com/personaltech
 AUDIO: ONE NATION, UNDER STRESS
 Audio interviews with people around the country who are reporting anxiety, depression and stress-related symptoms because of the economic downturn. 
 nytimes.com/health
 VIDEO: A CAMPAIGN UPDATE
 Barack Obama's team built one of the most formidable political organizations ever. The question now is whether this campaign structure can support the president now that he's in office. 
 nytimes.com/politics
 SLIDESHOW: THE DEAD LIVE ON
 As the Grateful Death get ready for the beginning of their reunion tour this Sunday, we are asking readers to submit photos from Grateful Dead concerts for an online photo album. 
 nytimes.com/music
 SLIDESHOW: A BOUND INVESTMENT
 An investment banker who gave up securities trading to deal in rare and out-of-print books shopped for bookcases and shelves that are both functional and beautiful.
 nytimes.com/home

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); YOGA (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); SCULPTURE (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (71%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (71%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); PODCASTING (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); POLITICS (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



356 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Applications for Foreign Worker Visas Are Down

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Federal immigration authorities said Wednesday that they were still accepting petitions by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and technology engineers for the next fiscal year, reflecting a sharp drop in applications over last year. 
 The announcement came as a surprise to some employers, researchers and immigration advocates, who had predicted that in spite of the recession and other factors, the quotas for petitions for the so-called H-1B visa would most likely be reached within the initial five-day period, which began on April 1. 
 The State Department issues up to 85,000 H-1B visas, including 65,000 for applicants with a bachelor's degree or similar training and 20,000 for those with a master's degree or higher from an American university. 
 Some analysts have attributed the decline to the economic downturn and to new restrictions on financial companies that received emergency federal aid.
 But Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which handles the petitions, said that in 2006, the agency did not reach the regular H-1B cap for at least a month and did not reach the master's cap until July. 
 In 2007, the regular cap was met in the first five-day filing period and the master's degree cap was met within a month. Last year, the agency received about 163,000 petitions within the first five-day petition period, more than meeting the quotas.
 ''The last two years were anomalies,'' Ms. Rhatigan said. ''This is going back to normal.'' 
 As part of the economic stimulus legislation, Congress added conditions for H-1B visas requiring banks that received bailout money to show that a newly hired immigrant is not displacing an American from a job for three months before and after the immigrant is hired. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT VISAS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); PETITIONS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CITIZENSHIP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



357 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: To Trim Debt, Pernod Will Sell Its Wild Turkey Brand

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Pernod Ricard, the French liquor company, said Wednesday it had agreed to sell Wild Turkey, the Kentucky bourbon, to Gruppo Campari of Italy for $575 million as part of a plan to cut its debt. 
 Pernod, which ranks second behind Diageo among the world's liquor distributors, acquired Wild Turkey in 1980 when it bought Austin Nichols & Company for $100 million.
 Pernod also said it planned to raise up to 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in capital by issuing stock to existing shareholders to reduce debt. The company, which bought Vin & Sprit, the maker of Absolut vodka, from the Swedish government for 5.6 billion euros last year, has more than 12 billion euros of debt.
 Pernod, which is based in Paris, also owns Chivas Regal Scotch whiskey, Beefeater gin and Absolut vodka. 
 Campari, based in Milan, is acquiring the Wild Turkey and American Honey liqueur brands, as well as distillery facilities in Kentucky, and bourbon inventory. 
 The deal allows Campari to increase its American presence at a time when growth in Europe is weak and the spirits industry is facing a decline in sales because of the economic downturn. 
 Wild Turkey, established in 1855, had global sales last year of more than 800,000 nine-liter cases, of which American sales accounted for almost half the total. Australia and Japan are the main overseas buyers of the whiskey, which is sold in more than 60 markets. It will be Campari's third-largest brand after its signature red Campari bitter liqueur and Skyy vodka. 
 In the United States, Campari will put more emphasis on expanding the brand outside of the ''bourbon belt,'' the area of the South and Midwest where most bourbon is sold, Robert Kunze-Concewitz, the chief executive, said.
 Integrating Wild Turkey into the distribution channels for Skyy vodka will expand American sales on the West Coast and in the Northeast, he said. 
 He said he did not expect any regulatory obstacles to the deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (91%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); DISTILLERIES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); POULTRY (90%); MEATS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DAVIDE CAMPARI-MILANO SPA (96%); PERNOD RICARD SA (95%); AUSTIN NICHOLS & CO INC (72%); DIAGEO PLC (58%); SKYY SPIRITS LLC (54%)

TICKER: CPR (BIT) (96%); RI (PAR) (95%); DGE (PAR) (58%); DGE (LSE) (58%); DEO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (96%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (96%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (96%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (96%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (90%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



358 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show Worry As Credit Seized Up

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
A major economic weakening in the United States and across the world helped prod the Federal Reserve to pump more than $1 trillion into the economy last month, according to minutes of a recent Fed meeting released on Wednesday. 
 At their latest meeting, members of the central bank's Open Market Committee worried about persistent declines in the economy and talked about the best way to loosen credit markets.
 The minutes of the March 17-18 meeting offered a glimpse of how the Fed decided to inject more liquidity into the economy by buying $750 billion in mortgage-backed securities and $300 billion of longer-term Treasuries.
 Members said buying Treasury notes would ease lending conditions across long-term credit markets. But they also noted that buying mortgage-backed securities could have a more direct effect on home loan rates. 
 Some members were concerned that buying Treasuries ''might be seen as an indication that the Federal Reserve was responding to a fiscal objective rather than its statutory mandate, thus reducing the Federal Reserve's credibility regarding long-run price stability.''
 But the committee voted unanimously to buy the securities.
 ''In light of the economic and financial conditions, meeting participants viewed the expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet that might be associated with these and other programs as appropriate in order to foster the dual objectives of maximum employment and price stability,'' the Fed minutes said.
 It was a significant move. Stocks soared, and government bond prices spiked, causing yields on the benchmark 10-year note to fall from 3 percent to about 2.5 percent as investors welcomed a big new buyer to the government bond market. The price of gold rose, and the value of the dollar dropped against other currencies, a reflection of concern that the Fed's actions could set the stage for a weaker dollar and sharp inflation once the economy begins to recover.
 But the minutes suggest that inflation, a major concern last year, has become a distant worry as policy makers try to prop up the economy. 
 ''All participants agreed that inflation pressures were likely to remain subdued,'' the minutes said. 
 The Fed also signaled that it would keep target interest rates low for a while. The Fed has cut its economic views, saying that real gross domestic product would flatten for the rest of the year before beginning to expand slowly in 2010. It also said the unemployment rate, which is 8.5 percent, would rise more sharply into 2010 before leveling off ''at a high level.'' 
 The minutes suggested that policy makers were growing concerned about signals from the housing sector and credit and labor markets as stark economic figures piled up this year.
 Committee members worried that a spiral could begin if ''reduced employment and production weighed on consumer spending and investment, and as the weakening economy bolstered the prospective losses of financial institutions, leading to a further tightening of credit conditions.''
 Also on Wednesday, the Commerce Department reported that wholesalers cut their inventoriesby 1.5 percent in February, the sharpest monthly decrease in 17 years. 
 Wholesale trade grew by a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent in February from January, but was 14 percent lower than last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



359 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW ANDRe PREVIN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Retirement at Age 80? He's Still Hard at Work

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
Andre Previn has had a particularly wide-ranging career, as conductor, pianist, composer, arranger and jazz performer. In honor of his 80th birthday on Monday, Carnegie Hall is presenting three events that showcase him in his various musical guises. 
 On Tuesday Mr. Previn, who has held major artistic posts with ensembles like the London Symphony, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Pittsburgh Symphony, conducted the Philadelphia Orchestra in Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 24 in C minor, leading from the piano, and Strauss's ''Symphonia Domestica.''
 The concert began on a lackluster note with a soporific performance of the Mozart concerto, performed with a reduced ensemble. After a promising start, with vigorous orchestral playing, it soon descended into lethargy, with treacly textures and without any sense of drama or overall cohesion. Mr. Previn, playing his own cadenzas, performed with a singing tone but seemed to be struggling technically and often failed to project above the orchestra.
 The richly hued performance of the Strauss after intermission was far more successful. The Philadelphia Orchestra, like many other arts groups, has been affected by the recession. It canceled a European tour and cut its administrative staff, and it currently lacks both an executive director and a music director. 
 To judge by this concert the turmoil has not affected the orchestra's exemplary standards. The strings played with their trademark gorgeous sound in the ''Symphonia Domestica,'' in which Strauss evokes his home life by depicting chiming clocks, children's games and a parental quarrel. (Strauss's marriage was reportedly shaky when he wrote the work, which he dedicated to his wife and son.) 
 Mr. Previn elicited a fine performance from the Philadelphians, with immaculate woodwind playing. Their lively interpretation, aptly illuminating the details of the vast score, was rewarded with an enthusiastic audience response. 
 The next concert in Andre Previn's birthday series at Carnegie Hall is on April 22, when he will perform the premiere of his Trio for Piano, Violin and Cello and other works with the violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter and the cellist Lynn Harrell; (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andre Previn leading the Philadelphia Orchestra at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday night.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARRIAGE (69%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



360 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The Haircut's Free. Perfection? That's Another Story

BYLINE: By SUSAN CATTO

 BODY:
JESSICA LENNON never minded paying $140 (plus $40 tip) for a high-end cut at the Frederic Fekkai salon on Fifth Avenue in New York. But after months of bad economic news, Ms. Lennon, a 24-year-old publicist, recently felt reluctant to make her next appointment. 
 ''I started thinking, is it really worth it? Do I have $180 to spend right now on my hair?'' she said. 
 She turned to Craigslist and Web sites of upscale salons to find training nights, calling around until she lucked into an appointment at Sally Hershberger Downtown, which offers free trainee cuts on Tuesday nights. Surrounded by novices working on bewigged mannequin heads, Ms. Lennon calmed herself with a mantra: ''It's just hair. It will grow back.''
 Ms. Lennon (who ended up with a cut she loved) is among the many professionals turning to the inexpensive or free services offered at aesthetic colleges and training salons. Beauty schools have long been popular with students and retirees. Now some schools are reporting a surge of first-time clients, many of whom say they can no longer afford their usual salon appointments. 
 Marina Valmy de Haydu, the executive vice president of Christine Valmy International Schools, said she should have recognized the beginning signs of a recession and made a timely call to her stockbroker when demand for the school's facials ($27 to $35) started to rise at the end of last summer.
 ''We don't advertise so we started to wonder,'' Ms. Valmy de Haydu said.
 Since then interest at Christine Valmy and other schools has continued to rise. At Aveda Institute New York on Spring Street, where cuts are $20 and facials start at $45, the number of new guests was up 15 percent in January compared with January 2008. 
 Empire Beauty School, with 88 locations -- and foil highlights for $37 -- has seen increased business across the country, especially in cities like New York, where salons are more expensive, said Maureen Pinchock, a spokeswoman. The Queens location, for example, served about 350 customers in January, 50 percent more than the year before. 
 ''Normally we have a more mature clientele but now we're seeing younger professionals,'' said Laurence Nunes, director of education at the Queens campus.
 There is also increased demand at salons offering free or cheap services during training sessions. Would-be clients usually submit applications and photos online or show up at model calls; only those with hair that suits a particular class (the graduated bob, say) will get a callback. 
 ''We have had 50 percent more applicants in January of this year than we had in January of last year,'' said Deanna McClung, manager of the Bb.U. Model Project (better known as the Bumble and Bumble University free haircut).
 So what do the people on the business end of the scissors think about their shift from sought-after pros to nervous neophytes? The trade-offs, many say, are predictable: no private rooms, and services can be painfully long as students double-check each step with supervisors. Getting an appointment can also be difficult. Weekends and evenings book up weeks or months ahead. 
 But the big gamble is on quality. Negative reviews and even horror stories -- for example, scissors mishaps that leave patron or stylist bleeding -- aren't hard to find online, but most concerns involve uneven results, literally and figuratively. 
 ''The first time I went, I got a really nice cut,'' said Marilee Kinsella, 46, who went to Aveda Institute Chicago. ''The second time, the front looked fine but from the back it looked like Eddie Munster.'' 
 Most schools, including the Aveda Institutes, offer to improve haircuts that clients deem unacceptable -- though by the time the damage is done, not every unhappy client wants to take a chance.
 But for many, the experience is positive. After Kerry Trimmer, 23, lost her job in television marketing last December, she concluded that her $70 cut would have to go. ''That would be groceries for a week for me,'' she said. She went to Aveda Institute New York for a 90-minute haircut she liked. 
 ''I didn't have a job so I didn't have to be anywhere,'' said Ms. Trimmer, who has since found a new position. ''It was nice to have somebody spending time rather than rushing me through.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IT GROWS BACK: At Bumble and Bumble, a supervisor keeps an eye on an apprentice's work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



361 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: The New Deal Revisionists: Will They Ever Learn?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''New Deal Revisionism: Theories Collide'' (Arts pages, April 4):
 You paraphrase two economists as arguing that federal spending cannot stimulate the economy because ''government spending just crowds out private investment'' and ''the money supply is the only thing that matters.'' 
 Yes, federal spending can crowd out private investment -- if it is financed through higher taxes or increased borrowing from the American public and accompanied by no expansion in the money supply.
 But government spending can cut high rates of unemployment if it is financed by expanding the money supply. This means borrowing from the Federal Reserve System, which can create more money, either by issuing checks or by printing cash. 
 In this case, increased spending and monetary expansion are both parts of the same process. In fact, government spending stimulated the American economy during the early New Deal years and again during World War II.
 Peter Eckstein Ann Arbor, Mich., April 4, 2009
 The writer is a retired research director of the Michigan A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 To the Editor:
 It really frosts me when a tenured economics professor with a secure job like Richard K. Vedder at Ohio University slams the New Deal and says that doing nothing is about the best you can hope for from any president.
 Even here in Herbert Hoover's home state, we didn't buy that hogwash in 1932 when Franklin D. Roosevelt swamped our native son by 58 percent to 40 percent. And we certainly knew that the New Deal was accomplishing positive changes when we voted for F.D.R. in 1936 by 54 percent to 43 percent over Alf Landon from nearby Kansas.
 So, to Professor Vedder and all the other New Deal revisionists, get your noses out of your theoretical texts and try reading about people who were literally saved by the New Deal.
 Gary Sanders Iowa City, April 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 How old are the revisionist writers who question Franklin D. Roosevelt's policies during the Great Depression? I ask because when historians of any era run out of new things to say, they inevitably turn to a counterinterpretation. This does not reconstruct reality so much as sell new books and keep the intellectuals viable. The younger they are relative to the eras they depict, the more inventive they become.
 My nonagenarian father was a witness to F.D.R.'s incomparable leadership during the Depression and the subsequent war. He has never wavered in his narrative about how this great man led a demoralized populace from potential starvation and rebellion through the darkest years of America's 20th-century experience to the middle-class economic expansion that followed his years in office.
 The more one does history, the more one realizes that the past is tendentiously recreated, not painstakingly discovered with all its complexities, by those of us born later than the events we chronicle.
 What the revisionists have done, Milton Friedman included, is provide ideological cover for a moribund political party. Mr. Friedman's own place in the history books will rest upon how the chroniclers portray his role in the hypercapitalist free fall of the early 21st century.
 Jean E. Rosenfeld Pacific Palisades, Calif., April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HISTORY (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (56%); AFL-CIO (55%); OHIO UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



362 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Down by 7, Phillies Rally to Avoid Sweep

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
First, they got their rings. Then, they got their first win.
 Four Phillies walked with the bases loaded in an eight-run seventh inning Wednesday, and Philadelphia rallied for a 12-11 victory at home over the Atlanta Braves.
 Raul Ibanez hit a two-run homer, helping the defending-champion Phillies overcome a 10-3 deficit and avoid a three-game sweep on the day they received their World Series rings. 
 ''We played two and a half games where we hadn't done much right, but we came back and got them,'' Phillies Manager Charlie Manuel said.
 Brian McCann and Jordan Schafer hit two-run homers for the Braves, and Javier Vazquez left with a seven-run lead after pitching six effective innings in his first start with his new team. But the Phillies rallied in the seventh against Atlanta's bullpen. 
 Matt Diaz homered off Brad Lidge with one out in the ninth to cut the Phillies' lead to a run, but Lidge retired the next two batters to earn his 52nd consecutive save.
 CUBS 11, ASTROS 5 Aramis Ramirez and Mike Fontenot drove in four runs each as Chicago won at Houston. Kosuke Fukudome had four hits and scored a career-high four runs for the Cubs, who won an opening series for the first time since taking two of three from the Mets in 2003.
 MARLINS 6, NATIONALS 4 Dan Uggla hit a tie-breaking three-run double, Chris Volstad was almost flawless after a shaky first inning and Florida completed an opening three-game sweep at home. The Marlins scored 26 runs in the series, and their starters went 3-0 with a 3.06 earned run average. Volstad struck out a career-high seven, allowing two runs -- one earned -- and two hits in five innings.
 ROCKIES 9, DIAMONDBACKS 2 Dexter Fowler, Yorvit Torrealba and Ian Stewart homered as visiting Colorado won a series against Arizona for the first time in two years. Franklin Morales held the Diamondbacks to a run on four hits in six innings, striking out six and walking one.
 PIRATES 7, CARDINALS 4 Zach Duke beat St. Louis for the first time in nearly three seasons, and Freddy Sanchez went 4 for 5 in his third straight multi-hit game for visiting Pittsburgh. Albert Pujols set a franchise record for a Cardinals first baseman with seven assists, the most in the majors by a first baseman since the Pirates' Bob Robertson had eight on June 21, 1971.
 TIGERS 5, BLUE JAYS 1 Miguel Cabrera homered twice, Brandon Inge connected for the third straight game and Detroit won at Toronto. Zach Miner allowed one run and six hits in five and two-thirds innings for Detroit, which lost its first seven games last season and finished last in the American League Central.
 TWINS 6, MARINERS 5 Justin Morneau homered and drove in three runs, Jason Kubel hit the go-ahead R.B.I. double in the fifth inning and Minnesota won at home against the Seattle sinkerballer Carlos Silva.
 RANGERS 8, INDIANS 5 Nelson Cruz hit two solo home runs and the rookie Elvis Andrus added his first homer to lead Texas at home. Vicente Padilla pitched into the sixth inning to help the Rangers open at 2-0 for the first time since 2000. Cleveland's Fausto Carmona allowed six runs and seven hits in five innings.
 ROYALS 2, WHITE SOX 0 Zack Greinke pitched three-hit ball into the seventh inning and the Kansas City bullpen was perfect at Chicago. Greinke struck out seven and walked three, and Juan Cruz and Joakim Soria retired all nine batters to preserve the Royals' first victory of the season.
 PAYROLLS DROP BY $47 MILLION The recession has hit baseball salaries. Teams cut payrolls for their active rosters and disabled lists by $47 million from opening day in 2008 to the first day of this season, a drop of 1.7 percent, according to an analysis by The Associated Press. ''Clubs were cautious all winter with regards to the economy and were concerned the economy might have an impact on club revenue,'' Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, said. ''The spending reflected that for many clubs.'' 
 WEBB TO SKIP HIS NEXT START Arizona's ace, Brandon Webb, will skip his next start because of shoulder stiffness. ''For a guy like him, this isn't something you can mess around with,'' Manager Bob Melvin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); CHICAGO CUBS (82%); HOUSTON ASTROS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (85%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



363 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: On the Job, but on the Lookout for Work

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
WITH the economy in the tank, one can never have too many friends. 
 So a few weeks ago, Katherine Wu, an executive at NBC Universal, packed an overnight bag with her yoga mat and drove 80 miles to Mohonk Mountain House in New Paltz, N.Y., to a retreat organized by 85 Broads, a women's networking group. In between spa treatments and sun salutations, she and 17 fellow executives discussed career prospects in an unsettled economy.
 It was not her first time at such an event. Ms. Wu, 30, found the job she has now through 85 Broads. A self-described ''networking evangelist,'' her profile is posted on LinkedIn and she gets five to seven calls a month from people looking for jobs. She answers every one. It makes good sense, she explained. Someday it could be her placing the call.
 ''I equate this to dating,'' Ms. Wu said. ''Networking is a basic numbers game. If you don't get out, you won't meet as many people.'' 
 With companies firing workers in droves and those with jobs worried that they could be next, 2009 is shaping up to be a golden era of networking. Universities have shifted alumni outreach efforts to focus on career counseling and networking instruction, rather than social gatherings.
 The Center for Networking Excellence in New York, which advises companies, says requests for corporate seminars have increased 50 percent in the last year. Informal groups are popping up everywhere, inspired by people's hopes that any connection might lead to the next job.
 Although networking has traditionally been the urgent preoccupation of the unemployed, these days many are subscribing to the axiom that it is easier to find a job if you already have one. Networking before the pink slip arrives is a measure of the anxiety seeping into nearly every corner of the work world, during a recession that has already claimed 1.5 million white-collar jobs. 
 ''People are worried about where the next job will come from even before they lose their old one,'' said Janet Hanson, a former Goldman Sachs executive who was a founder of 85 Broads in 1997. ''They know that three months from now, they could be gone, too. What we are seeing and what we expect to happen even more is that people are going to become chronic networkers.''
 If anyone appreciates this, it is Vincent Lauria, the 29-year-old organizer of the Silicon Valley NewTech Meetup Group, whose membership has swelled 75 percent since last fall, to 3,500. Since December, attendance at a monthly gathering that Mr. Lauria organizes at a Palo Alto, Calif., law firm has tripled. He cuts off the guest list at a generous 200 and is still forced to turn people away. ''I don't want it to turn into a convention,'' he said.
 But clearly he is filling a need. Conversations among guests, Mr. Lauria said, tend to focus on two things: how long will the recession last, and whom can they meet who will help them if they are laid off. 
 Mr. Lauria said there is an increasing wariness in Silicon Valley among engineers and developers who are concerned about their own job security and, at the same time, are being hounded by peers desperate to connect. Two weeks ago, he had lunch with a friend who asked him for a contact at Twitter.
 ''I e-mailed two people who are connected to people there, but they both said 'no' because they have been asked to make too many referrals,'' Mr. Lauria said. ''They didn't want to waste the political capital on someone they didn't think would get a job.''
 In this on-all-the-time generation, ubiquity is key. Consider Sonja Kosman, a 32-year-old executive at the online video advertising firm Spotzer Media. She attends two career-related events in New York each week, she said. Some are sponsored by Columbia University, from which she graduated in 2008 with an M.B.A. Others are through professional groups like Sobel Media NY: Media Information Exchange Group. 
 And that does not include Ms. Kosman's online forays. Last year she joined a group through the networking site Meetup.com. And she has profiles posted on LinkedIn and Facebook, where she currently has 460 friends.
 ''You don't know where the opportunities are going to come from,'' she said. ''They could come from sites. You could meet someone at an event, at the grocery store. You have to be open to anything.''
 Social networking sites, particularly the business-oriented LinkedIn, are aggressively taking advantage of the hunger to connect in the current economy. LinkedIn has more than 37 million members and says it is adding a new one almost every second. Requests from people using the service to find jobs are up 48 percent from a year ago, the company says. The number of members writing recommendations for friends or colleagues (which are included on users' pages) has grown 65 percent a month since December.
 But so much networking comes at a price.
 ''If you are a good networker, it takes a lot of time,'' said Cathy Stembridge, the executive director of the alumni association for Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. ''It's not everyone's cup of tea.''
 Recently, Northwestern shifted its focus from organizing alumni parties and social events to offering job counseling seminars instead, Ms. Stembridge said. In February and early March, it held networking events in New York City, Austin, Dallas and Minneapolis. It also offered a new, four-part Web series with classes such as ''How Do I Develop Lasting Connections?''
 Anxiety about economic uncertainty has forced many to adapt in ways they might not have imagined a few years ago.
 Joseph Farren, a vice president for global public affairs for Waggener Edstrom Worldwide in Washington, recently joined Twitter. He also began reaching out to old high school friends through Facebook. He said he feels the pressure to network more than he used to. ''People are doing things differently because they feel vulnerable,'' he said. 
 It is not just individuals promoting the benefit of having as wide a network as possible. Large institutions do so as well, said Liz Lynch, the founder of the Center for Networking Excellence. Recently, Ms. Lynch said that she was hired by both Google and Boeing to instruct employees on how to network within their own companies. ''That is as vital to keeping a job as finding a new one,'' she said.
 Attending a yoga retreat or reminiscing online about the senior prom is strictly beginner stuff for the most enterprising networkers. A few weeks ago, while Scott G. Cooney, a real estate developer in Missoula, Mont., was getting his monthly $14 haircut, he was approached by an engineer who wanted to switch firms. He took the man's card but he didn't hire him.
 The most enterprising job seeker he has seen, however, was a woman who for three months last year attended local planning commission meetings, introducing herself to Mr. Cooney each time. She was working part time at a construction company but wanted full-time work. Mr. Cooney finally hired her as his outreach coordinator.
 ''It has gotten quite interesting,'' he said.
 So, too, for Robert Raciti, a senior vice president at GE Capital. Recently a colleague asked him if he could get a free ticket to a media conference for a friend, a prominent employment recruiter. Mr. Raciti happily obliged.
 ''I thought, 'Why not?' '' he said with a laugh. ''He's a job recruiter. It couldn't hurt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THEY'RE ALL BUSINESS: Participants taking part in a networking forum in Palo Alto, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARCY PADILLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK McGINNIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); YOGA (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



364 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Norman Feels Affection and Shares It With Caddie

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Ga. 

 BODY:
The annual par-3 contest, always a lovefest between the patrons and the Masters competitors, turned into a genuine player-kisses-caddie public display of affection Wednesday after Greg Norman scored a hole in one at the No. 6 hole.
 Norman, who talked his wife, Chris Evert, into caddying Wednesday morning, launched a 9-iron from 140 yards into the hole. He immediately picked Evert off the ground and kissed her before giving her the credit for the ace. 
 ''I had decided not to caddie,'' Evert said, ''but the last request came as the plane landed. I said I'd leave it up to him and if he really wanted me to do it, I would.''
 He did, and so Evert donned the white jumpsuit, rolled up the sleeves, and hoisted the light carry bag for the nine-hole loop around the par-3 course that sits on the east edge of the Augusta National property. 
 ''I guess she heard it in my voice how much fun we'd have,'' Norman said.
 Evert said she had a blast. ''I don't know if Greg ever thought he'd be back,'' she said. ''I think it's great for him to be out here feeling the love.''
 THE PAR-3 CONTEST JINX The South African golfer Tim Clark said he was not superstitious, which is what all golfers say after winning the par-3 contest.
 Because no golfer who has won the par-3 has won the Masters, this is what they must tell themselves.
 ''To win this is something I will have forever,'' said Clark, who got to his score of five-under par by eagling No. 9 with a hole in one. ''Like I say, I'm not one who believes in superstition. I believe it's merely coincidence that the winner has not gone on to win.''
 He added: ''Obviously it's extremely tough to win on Augusta National. I've got my work cut out. It's a great way to start the week certainly, and I come here to have fun and this is certainly a fun event.''
 PLAYER'S FANTASTIC PARGary Player, 73, who is competing in his 52nd and final Masters, may have a hard time topping his walk-off par at the 115-yard No. 7. Player had hit his first shot in the water and reteed to hit his third.
 His wedge shot covered the flag, landing about 15 feet behind the hole and creeping back down the hill into the cup like a putt for a par 3. The crowd surrounding the tee and green and watching from across Ike's Pond exploded in cheers as Player broke into a muscle-flex pose before high-fiving his playing partners Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer.
 ''It was a fantastic way to save a par,'' Player said. ''And it was a great time to play with Jack and Arnold again in front of all these fans.''
 DOWNTURN HITS SCALPERS Although the Augusta National chairman Billy Payne said the recession had not had any effect on the operation of the tournament, ticket scalpers reported significant downward price pressure.
 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported that scalpers reported price declines nearing 40 percent for daily practice-round tickets. Average prices were down to $727 per ticket from last year's average of $1,123. The average price of two-day badges for Saturday-Sunday rounds declined to an average of $1,457 from the 2008 average of $2,162.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Player, second from right, Jack Nicklaus, right, and Player's grandson William after Player hit a tee shot into the cup.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANS DERYK/REUTERS)
 Tim Clark of South Africa won the par-3 contest. He had a hole in one on No. 9 for an eagle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



365 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Advocates on Both Sides Seek Momentum on Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
A marriage license is just a Metro-North ride to Connecticut away for same-sex couples in New York City. For those who live in the Hudson Valley, it is a short drive over the state line into Massachusetts. 
 Gay New Yorkers who live in the far northern reaches of the state can head to Canada for a wedding. And Tuesday's move by the Vermont State Legislature to legalize same-sex marriage has given them another nearby destination. 
 Advocates for same-sex marriage in New York and New Jersey said the action in Vermont was one more reminder that now, more than ever before, is the time for the states to grant full marital rights for gay and lesbian couples. 
 But the changes face a number of obstacles, and the advocates acknowledge that it could be months, if not longer, before the changes come. 
 On Wednesday, as both sides moved to seize the momentum, Gov. David A. Paterson vowed to introduce a bill that would legalize gay marriage. He told an Ithaca radio station that he was inclined to push the bill forward even if it was unclear that the measure had enough votes to pass, a maneuver that rarely occurs in Albany. ''We'll put a bill out and let the people decide one way or the other,'' he said. ''Why can't people just debate the bills, vote on it, and it goes up or down?''
 Alan Van Capelle, the executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, the group leading the effort to lobby New York legislators to legalize same-sex marriage, said the Vermont decision would provide leverage for a more assertive approach in Albany.
 ''We're going to hold the Legislature accountable,'' he said. ''The gay community is raising the bar on what we expect from our friends. Our friends are no longer going to be able to say they're going to support the bill. They're going to have to say they'll work to bring the bill to the floor so it will pass.''
 The National Organization for Marriage, a group that has fought efforts to broaden definitions of marriage to include homosexual couples, held news conferences at state capitols in Trenton and Providence, R.I., on Wednesday to announce the beginning of a $1.5 million national advertising campaign. 
 The first television commercial, with people describing same-sex marriage as a threat to their personal and religious freedoms against a backdrop of dark clouds and bolts of lightening, began appearing on Wednesday.
 ''This is just the beginning,'' said Brian Brown, executive director of the organization, who insisted that the momentum was building in favor of those who oppose same-sex marriage. ''We just won in California. We won in the state where everybody else said we couldn't win, and we were told that this was inevitable there. Well, that was wrong. It was wrong there, and it's wrong when you apply it to Vermont.''
 New York and New Jersey are both closer to legalizing same-sex marriage than they were a year ago, but it still could be some time before either state acts. In New York the issue will likely turn on a handful of Republican votes in the Senate. (The Assembly has already passed a gay marriage bill by a comfortable margin.)
 When Democrats gained narrow control of the Senate this year, same-sex marriage advocates were heartened. But one Democratic senator, Ruben Diaz Jr., a Pentecostal minister from the Bronx, has been outspoken in his opposition to allowing gay couples to wed, while some other Democrats have been noncommittal.
 No Senate Republicans have yet agreed to support a same-sex marriage bill, but many Democrats are optimistic that they will change.
 ''People do surprise you,'' said Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, who represents Manhattan.
 Mr. Van Capelle would not say whether he had commitments from any Republican senators to vote for the bill. Still, he added, ''I have been very encouraged by the conversations that I've had with Republicans, and I believe there are Republicans who are supportive of this in the State Senate.''
 In New Jersey, same-sex marriage legislation was not considered a priority for a long time for many politicians because the state already allows civil unions. That started to turn late last year when a state commission issued a report finding that the rights gay and lesbian couples are given under New Jersey's civil unions law were inadequate.
 Advocates there do not expect the Legislature to act until after the November elections. 
 ''In New Jersey, like in other states, big issues often get handled after an election,'' said Steven Goldstein, chair of Garden State Equality, a gay rights group. Mr. Goldstein added that he did not think Vermont's decision would do much to affect the timetable for same-sex marriage in New Jersey, but that because the Vermont Legislature had overridden the governor's veto, that could help him and other gay advocates make their case to lawmakers.
 ''I believe Vermont's action will now begin a period when we see states no longer looking at civil unions as an option and go directly to marriage equality,'' he said, noting that Vermont's action was of particular significance because it had been the first state to enact civil unions for same-sex couples.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey has said he will sign a bill allowing gay couples to marry, but a spokesman said Wednesday that the economy was ''priority No. 1, 2 and 3.'' 
 Other same-sex marriage supporters stress that each state has its own political landscape, and that lawmakers are more prone to focus on the political temperature in their own states, rather than look to what neighboring states are doing.
 ''It's chicken soup,'' said Micah Z. Kellner, an assemblyman who represents Manhattan and supports same-sex marriage. ''It definitely doesn't hurt but it may not help.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer Waldron, left, and Annette Lynch last week after Iowa legalized same sex-marriage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW PUTNEY/THE WATERLOO COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VERMONT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



366 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: The Masters Tournament: Golf Year Ahead

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
The Global Sports Forum with Christopher Clarey is a periodic discussion featuring international journalists exploring the issues and events in sports around the world. This is the final part of a discussion previewing the Masters golf tournament April 9 to 12 in Augusta, Ga.
 CHRISTOPHER CLAREY: Let's look beyond the Masters and parse some of the themes that will be running through this long season. How do you see the year ahead?
 LARRY DORMAN, THE NEW YORK TIMES: A lot depends on the outcome of the Masters. A lot of questions will be answered here. Imagine if Padraig Harrington were to win. The U.S. Open would be unbelievable. Every Irish person in New York will be at Bethpage Black. Every European media outlet still in existence will be there. If Tiger wins, there will be talk that the discussion last year about the Grand Slam might have come a year early. It might actually be easily within reason.
 CLAREY: You are feeling good about Woods's comeback! I'm not ready to be Grand Slam sanguine, even if he wins the Masters. A lot of fine players have played a lot more golf than he has in the last year. I think that, deep down, he'd be satisfied if he wins one major this year and stays healthy. 
 LEWINE MAIR: I think it would be great for the game if Harrington were to win at Augusta. It would add so much to the rest of the season: a Harrington - Tiger situation.
 CLAREY: What about Turnberry as a British Open site? It's been staged there just three times, and the winners were Tom Watson in 1977, Greg Norman in 1986 and Nick Price in 1994.
 MAIR: Turnberry will be terrific. The Watson-Nicklaus Open was the best of them all, and that history adds to the atmosphere. On top of identifying great champions, it is the most stunning Open venue of them all, though maybe not St. Andrews.
 JOHN HUGGAN, SCOTLAND ON SUNDAY: Say what you want about Turnberry. All three of its Opens have identified the best player in the world at the time. It is not the greatest course though.
 RICHARD HINDS, SYDNEY MORNING HERALD: Great atmosphere at Turnberry. Great sense of history. But not sure if it the course itself has identified champions or that has just been coincidence. Not my favorite on the rotation. I love St. Andrews: an obvious choice but just so atmospheric. I love Carnoustie -- possibly for the reasons some players hate it. You don't need to trick it up to get a Van De Velde moment.
 DORMAN: The Open at Turnberry will be awesome. I love that site, near the birthplace of old Bobby Burns and the decaying castle of Robert the Bruce himself. What a setting. All we'd need would be a Tom Watson redux for a couple days.
 CLAREY: This is also the year that golf makes a serious attempt to get back in the Olympics for the first time since 1904. Golf's proposal is hardly original: 72 holes of stroke play to determine the medalists. How do the players on tour really feel about the Olympics? Based on the other sports trying to get in and knowing the workings of the Olympic committee, I think golf stands a good chance.
 HUGGAN: Most players don't care about the Olympics, but it is too much hassle to say so.
 Plus, how can it help that the rules making body outside U.S. and Mexico -- the R&A -- discriminates based on gender by not having any female members? I'd rather golf stayed out of it. The Olympics is corrupt. But they want Tiger. If he wasn't around, it would not be an issue. It is all about money. The only valid argument is that the game in developing countries would benefit from Olympic funding.
 MAIR: I can see why they want golf in the Olympics but, as John says, the top players are not bothered either way. Those who have been told to sound keen have sounded keen. Tiger might want one gold medal, but he would be out of there after that. There's already enough to capture the imagination in golf. Four majors cannot be improved upon.
 CLAREY: I would point out that some of the tennis players felt the same way at the beginning when they re-integrated the Games and now many of them consider it as big an honor as winning a Grand Slam, even at best-of-three sets and without prize money.
 HINDS: I thought it was almost a fait accompli that golf would get in when the U.S. Tour came aboard at the British Open last year. Did not hear anything in Beijing to contradict it. The Olympics want the money and the relevance. But I haven't had really an unequivocal answer to the most vital question: ''What does Tiger think?''
 CLAREY: Seems to me that professional golf has no need of the Olympics, and the Olympics really has no need of professional golf. It will also restrict the I.O.C.'s venue choices more than most other sports would. Every major candidate city should have a respectable course within range, but not a great course within range.
 DORMAN: The current formula for selecting the Olympic teams will not necessarily identify the best players. That would, if left uncorrected, create a travesty. The overall sport of golf needs the Olympics to expand its global reach. The competitive side at the highest level does not need the Olympics, but the Olympics need it. So, yes, it is all about money.
 CLAREY: I'm going to bounce around here a bit. What's your take on the European Tour's new Race to Dubai? Huge money with a $10 million tournament in Dubai to finish off the tour and another $10 million in bonus pool. It's one more sign of the increased internationalization of the game. Dubai is not the safest haven for capital these days. It could have cash flow issues, but golf has, for now, followed the big money. Does this truly begin to change the equation in world golf?
 HUGGAN: The problem is that the PGA and European Tours spend too much time butting heads. Time for a world tour?
 DORMAN: The Race to Dubai, for all the hoopla, really doesn't offer a player any more than the PGA Tour's season-ending FedEx Cup, in terms of actual cash. And as far as prestige, well, not for me to say.
 CLAREY: Larry, will the P.G.A. players change their habits significantly because of this, or was that more alarmism?
 DORMAN: Not really. The top guys can play there without adjusting their schedule very much. All the talk about players like Camilo Villegas and Boo Weekley picking up a European Tour card is much ado about nothing. With the majors and other events they already were in, there is no significant effect on the PGA Tour.
 HUGGAN: Plus, how important can Dubai be if Tiger isn't there.
 CLAREY: Larry, as a former Callaway employee, how much is this recession hurting the golf industry?
 DORMAN: The equipment manufacturers are struggling, like all businesses that sell hard goods to consumers. There is a lot of unsold inventory in the pipeline putting price pressure on the new products, and retailers are loaded with products that consumers are not buying at anywhere near the rates of years past.
 HUGGAN: Golf clubs are dying over here, because of the economy.
 MAIR: Credit-crunch wise, what we are seeing at the moment is a big dip in club memberships. Last week, in Scotland, they had a ''jeans'' day on Scottish courses, the idea being that the game would be more attractive if people could dress down.
 CLAREY: Discounting green fees and the cost of a new driver might help more.
 HINDS: Similar situation here in Australia. The post-Norman boom that inspired so many players -- the bunch on the PGA Tour now -- is well and truly over. It started with the inability to compete with U.S. and European Tours. But the global financial crisis is also biting the industry hard.
 CLAREY: How about the Tours themselves? Tiger's return has to help in some fashion. What's the direct impact you've noticed?
 HUGGAN: None in Europe.
 MAIR: Everyone says we will notice it more in 2010.
 DORMAN: Tiger already has helped the TV economy by getting NBC the biggest rating since last year's U.S. Open for his comeback tournament. Without Tiger, there is no chance to increase interest among the general population, that much is clear. Certain events were down 40 percent year over year in terms of ratings in 2008.
 MAIR: Young Rory McIlroy could keep things afloat over here in Britain.
 HINDS: Last month, Tiger won the same day Karrie Webb broke a two year drought on the LPGA Tour. Even in parochial Australia, Tiger dominated the sports news. The Australian Masters just announced it was forking out the $3 million appearance fee to get Tiger down here in November. There was outrage for a few days because half the fee is coming from local government as a tourism-booster. Then Tiger drained that putt and everyone is high-fiving. One Tiger is seen as better than 50 other top Tour players here.
 MAIR: I think you could safely say that concern for Seve Ballesteros and his health problems filled the Tiger gap last year in Europe. Everyone was recalling what a huge star he was in his day - and worrying maybe that he hadn't been given as much sustained praise as he should have been. It was Padraig Harrington who said he should have been made a Tour ambassador. The trouble was that once Seve's golf was done, he was lost. But after one bad piece of news after another, finally, things would seem to be looking up. His nephew had film of Seve practicing his chip shots which he was showing around at last week's tournament. Apparently Seve, when he was coming round from one of his operations, said, ''British Open, I must win it on Saturday!''
 CLAREY: Better to win it on Sunday these days. I suppose if there's an upside to a very tough situation, it's that the players of all generations are getting a chance to have a good, long think about what Seve has really meant to the game, particularly the European game.
 MAIR: Yes, indeed. He was a huge character. A lot of people don't allow themselves to be characters nowadays. They opt for the blinkered approach and think that will help them play better. The psychologists influence, perhaps?
 HINDS: Agree. Also think, at some point, Seve would have been regarded as aloof and impetuous like Camilo Villegas. Maybe we should let the younger players coming through now express themselves before we jump on them too much.
 CLAREY: It just seems that the proliferation of media has broken down the trust that might have allowed top athletes to fully express themselves. Lots to lose and not that much to gain.
 MAIR: You are right about the media. But those who are smart can still express themselves well. Monty is good in a press tent. Harrington is good. Rory is deliciously upbeat. Plenty are hopeless.
 CLAREY: Speaking of ''Monty'' (Colin Montgomerie), Europe's new Ryder Cup captain and John Huggan have apparently had something of a rapprochement.
 HUGGAN: I love Monty! We spoke to each other in Dubai...it is the end of an era.
 DORMAN: What did he say to you?
 HUGGAN: Get out of my way. No, he answered a question. It was funny: John this and John that.
 MAIR: Ryder Cup captaincy is having its effect
 HUGGAN: He needs us all on side. Even me. I still think he cheated though. And so does almost every player on the European Tour. Jose Maria Olazabal should have been captain this time. Which is not to say that Monty will not be great in a lot of ways. Monty will certainly keep the Ryder Cup in the public eye.
 CLAREY: Just to be clear for our readers, when John mentions cheating, is referring to an incident at the Indonesian Open in March 2005 when Montgomerie failed to mark his ball during a rainstorm. A video showed that when he replaced the ball the next day, he did not put it back in the same spot. Montgomerie said it was a mistake and was not penalized. He donated his prize money to tsunami relief, but the incident has lingered in his peers' memory.
 MAIR: There are plenty of players who think what John thinks who still think Monty will make a great captain. He's a good people person when he wants to be.
 HUGGAN: Only important people.
 CLAREY: So why did Monty get the nod for 2010 instead of Olazabal?
 MAIR: He got the nod because Ollie couldn't make up his mind. Mind you, Ollie was thrown by the European Tour. They told him there was no hurry to make up his mind and suddenly they said they needed to know. I'm curious, though. Do the Americans think we've made a good choice in Monty? What's the gossip among the players?
 CLAREY: Can't speak for the players, but I think the average American golf fan is delighted that Monty is captain. He's somebody who interests them; somebody they recognize and will react to. The bad news is that he presumably will make the Europeans more competitive than they were last year at Valhalla under Nick Faldo. But that's next year's concern. Let's see how this year pans out first. It's been a pleasure to have you all take part in the latest edition of the forum. Thanks to Larry, Lewine and John, and to Richard: thanks, mate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); GOLF (91%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%)

COMPANY: VAN DE VELDE NV (50%)

TICKER: VAN (BRU) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2341 WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



367 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: At U.N. Talks On Climate, Plans by U.S. Raise Qualms

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BONN, Germany 

 BODY:
At the start of the United Nations climate talks here 12 days ago, the Obama administration's chief climate negotiator, Todd Stern, received a round of rowdy applause. It was the first appearance of the new negotiating team at any global meeting.
 But by Wednesday, as the meetings drew to a close, some delegates -- and even some United Nations officials -- were grumbling that the United States was not moving fast enough to take action on global warming. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Stern's team offered the first broad hints of a new international climate policy for the United States, noting that more details would be submitted in a proposal to the United Nations later this month. But even in its broadest brush strokes, the American proposal differs significantly from other plans to curb carbon dioxide emissions enacted by the United Nations and the European Union. 
 The Obama administration's plan would require all countries, including developing nations like China and India, to curb greenhouse gas emissions, said Jonathan Pershing, the deputy special envoy for climate change, at a news conference. The plan's main focus is on long-range goals -- as distant as 2050 -- for greenhouse gas reduction.
 Under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, initial emission-reduction targets for the developed nations that signed the agreement were set for 2012. And most other proposals to lower emissions, including the plan in use in the European Union, focus on 2020 as an initial target. Though he praised Europe's efforts, Mr. Pershing said, ''U.S. policy is something we're developing at home, according to what we see as the science and political capacity.'' 
 But many officials here were clearly impatient. ''We are still waiting for the U.S. to put its position on the table,'' said Michael Zammit-Cutajar, a top official of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. ''They have asked us to keep the door open, and it is,'' he said. 
 Mr. Pershing said that the Obama administration was working to fill in the plan. ''We promise in June to come back with a much more detailed set of policies,'' Mr. Pershing said. Negotiations resume here on June 1. 
 Mr. Pershing said the United States was committed to working within the United Nations process. He suggested, however, that specifics -- like how much the United States would reduce emissions, when the reductions would take place and how much money would be spent on curbing emissions -- were unlikely to be forthcoming by June. ''Those numbers will be determined by Congress,'' he said. Congress has started debating legislation to curb carbon dioxide emissions through a cap-and-trade system. 
 Under the Bush administration, the United States never accepted binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions -- a policy that Mr. Obama promised to overturn. During the campaign, he proposed that the United States should reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, and reduce levels progressively to 80 percent of 1990 levels by 2050. 
 At the time, many environmental groups regarded the 2020 target as inadequate. The European Union has proposed reductions of between 25 and 40 percent compared with 1990 levels by 2020. Various plans floated here by China, South Africa and the Philippines would require developed countries to reduce emissions by up to 50 percent by 2020. Mr. Pershing dismissed such proposals as a ''a negotiating gambit.''
 Even so, many said the lack of any numbers from the United States was holding up progress.
 ''Countries are very, very nervous to come forward without seeing the United States' numbers,'' said Harald Dovland, the official in charge of negotiations among countries that signed the Kyoto Protocol. 
 The Obama team held dozens of bilateral meetings here with other countries, contributing to a generally positive atmosphere. 
 ''Its great to have them reengaged,'' said Keya Chatterjee, deputy director of the climate change program at WWF in Washington. ''But they've got to come back with some concrete proposals -- with some goods -- next time to really get the negotiations going.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the United States' negotiating positions at global climate talks in Bonn, Germany, described incorrectly the reductions of greenhouse gas emissions proposed by Barack Obama at the time he was running for president. He said the United States should progressively reduce emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050 -- not to 80 percent of 1990 levels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); LEGISLATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



368 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Contractors Agree on Deal To Build Stealth Destroyer

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Two military contractors, General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman, agreed on Wednesday to a Pentagon deal that will clear the way for all three of the Navy's multibillion-dollar stealth destroyers to be built at General Dynamics' shipyard in Maine, Pentagon and industry officials said.
 Northrop Grumman, which had expected to build one of the DDG-1000 destroyers at its shipyard in Mississippi, will contribute major components for each of the vessels. It will also receive contracts for two other destroyers as the Navy restarts production of an earlier model. 
 Stock analysts said the deal, pushed by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, appeared to be a winning proposition for both contractors. 
 ''Mr. Gates delivered a gift to the shipbuilders,'' said Loren B. Thompson, a military consultant and the chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute, a research group.
 Military officials said the precise financial arrangements still needed to be worked out.
 Pentagon officials had estimated that the first of the new destroyers, also known as the Zumwalt class, would cost $3.3 billion, with additional ships costing at least $2.5 billion each if the Navy had built the 10 that were originally planned.
 But given Mr. Gates's decision to limit the program to three ships, independent analysts said, various economies of scale would be lost, and the average cost could rise to $5 billion or more.
 Still, in proposing a range of cuts in arms programs on Monday, Mr. Gates said he would build only one of the destroyers if General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman would not agree to have all three built at Bath Iron Works in Maine.
 Mr. Gates said it would have been far too costly and inefficient to have both shipyards gear up to be the lead contractor.
 Representative Gene Taylor, a Democrat from Mississippi and the chairman of a House armed services subcommittee, said the deal was good for Northrop Grumman because it ensured that the company was ''aligned with where the Navy sees its future.''
 Under the plan, Northrop Grumman will restart production of the DDG-51, also known as the Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, at its Ingalls shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss., and build the first two ships. General Dynamics will build the third once it completes work on the DDG-1000s at the Bath Iron Works. Officials said it was likely that the companies would split any subsequent orders through some type of competitive bidding.
 Military analysts have estimated that the DDG-51s could cost an average of $1.5 billion to $2 billion each, depending on how many are eventually built.
 Navy officials had originally embraced the shift to the DDG-1000, in part because it would have new types of radars, designed by Raytheon, that allowed it to make precise scans in relatively cluttered areas near coastlines. That ability was designed to fit the Navy's increasing emphasis on operating in shallower, coastal waters.
 But as the cost estimates rose last year, Navy officials began backing away, saying they could no longer afford the ship.
 Still, the DDG-1000 had substantial political support from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Democrat from Massachusetts, where Raytheon is based, and other legislators from New England who were concerned about losing jobs at the Maine shipyard, which employs 5,600. The yard, which began building the first ship in February, expects to deliver it in 2013.
 Analysts said that the Navy generally fared better than the Air Force and the Army in the Pentagon's proposals. 
 Mr. Gates said the Navy would gradually slow the production of aircraft carriers, with the total dropping to 10, from 11, after 2040. Northrop Grumman, which builds the carriers, said in a note to employees that it believed that proposal ''requires a closer look.''
 Mr. Gates also said he would delay development of a new cruiser and amphibious ships. 
 But he endorsed the Navy's goal of buying 55 Littoral Combat Ships, a high-speed coastal combat vessel that has experienced huge cost overruns. His proposals included money for expanding construction of the Virginia-class submarines to two each year, starting in fiscal 2011, from one now. And he said the Navy could start planning a new generation of ballistic missile submarines.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A depiction of the Navy's new Zumwalt-class destroyer, which will cost $3.3 billion and have stealth technology. Both General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman wanted to build the vessel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BATH IRON WORKS)
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, negotiated the deal. Also pictured is Gen. James E. Cartwright of the Marine Corps.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); NAVIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (90%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (90%); RAYTHEON CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (90%); NOC (NYSE) (90%); RTN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (90%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); GENE TAYLOR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



369 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 9, 2009

 BODY:
International
 HORRORS OF KHMER ROUGE ERA ARE LOST ON CAMBODIAN YOUTH
 As Cambodians struggles to leave the past behind, others do not know the past. Cambodia today suffers from a particularly painful generation gap between those who survived the Khmer Rouge regime that ravaged the country 30 years ago, and their children and grandchildren, who know very little about it. PAGE A6 
 INMATE IS FAKE, BUT INFLUENCE IS NOT
 The new star of the opposition to President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia is locked away in a fake jail cell, the set for a television program that seems to rivet the capital. The blend of cable news outragefest and did-he-really-just-do-that reality show is broadcast several hours a day. PAGE A6 
 Mexico City Journal
 Old Kidnapping Case Resurfaces
 Three years ago in Mexico, a Frenchwoman and her Mexican boyfriend were arrested in a police raid that rescued three kidnapping victims. A staged raid was broadcast on television, hardening public opinion against the suspects. The case has climbed back into the headlines because President Nicolas Sarkozy of France wants the woman home -- and all but said so in a state visit to Mexico last month. PAGE A8 
 FINGER-POINTING AFTER UNREST
 A day after a huge anti-Communist rally turned violent in Chisinau, Moldova's capital, everyone was speculating about who was behind it. President Vladimir Voronin said the event had been planned by Romanians. Youth activists blamed the opposition parties. And the opposition leader blamed the authorities. PAGE A10 
 Victims of Italian Quake Regroup A12 
 PROTESTS GROW IN BANGKOK
 In their largest show of power so far, supporters of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand, wearing their signature red shirts, massed in central Bangkok and demanded that the government resign. PAGE A12 
 QUALMS AT U.N. TALKS ON CLIMATE
 As United Nations climate talks drew to a close, some delegates were grumbling that the United States was not moving fast enough in taking action on global warming. PAGE A12 
 U.S. PLANS TO JOIN TALKS WITH IRAN
 The Obama administration said that the United States would start participating regularly with other major powers in negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program. The decision is a further step toward the direct engagement with Tehran that President Obama has promised. PAGE A16 
 U.S.-India-Pakistan Alliance Sought A16 
 NATIONAL
 CONCERN IN COAL-USING STATES
 Over Climate Legislation
 Missouri's reliance on cheap electricity is deeply ingrained, but few of its residents pay attention to the origin of their little-noticed savings: 21 coal-fired power plants that emit more than 75 million tons of carbon dioxide annually. Senate and House Democrats from Missouri and other coal-using states are pushing back against federal climate legislation that could increase electricity bills. PAGE A17 
 SCHWARZENEGGER'S BRONZE GRIZZLY
 On a recent trip to Aspen, Colo., Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California popped into an art gallery and became transfixed by a large bronze sculpture of a grizzly bear. So he reached into his personal bank account and ponied up for the sculpture, which now sits outside his office. ''Everyone is loving it now,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. PAGE A17 
 FEWER VISA REQUESTS FOR SCIENTISTS
 Federal immigration authorities said that they were still accepting petitions by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and technology engineers for the next fiscal year, reflecting a sharp drop in applications over last year. PAGE A18 
 AGENCY SEEKS TO PRIVATIZE FISHERIES
 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the federal agency that regulates ocean fishing, is taking preliminary steps toward privatizing fisheries in New England, the agency's administrator said. PAGE A19 
 MINNESOTA'S SOLE SENATOR
 As the fight over a United States Senate seat from Minnesota seems certain to drag into a sixth month, Amy Klobuchar, above, now finds herself the only senator from Minnesota. It is a peculiar circumstance in a system that provides two senators per state, and certainly a situation rarely experienced for quite so long. PAGE A20 
 In Alaska, Doubts Over InvestigationA20
 Jesse Jackson Jr. Confirms Inquiry A20
 STANDARDS FOR DEGREE PROGRAMS
 In the first American effort of its kind, universities and colleges in Indiana, Minnesota and Utah are starting pilot projects to make sure that degree programs in their states reflect a consensus about what specific knowledge and skills should be taught. PAGE A21 
 OBITUARIES
 MARVIN WEBSTER, 56
 The 7-foot-1 shot-blocking center known as the Human Eraser, he took the Seattle SuperSonics to the 1978 N.B.A. finals and played nine seasons in the N.B.A., including six with the Knicks. PAGE B13 
 New York
 DON'T CHANGE THE CHANNEL: THAT GUY LOOKS FAMILIAR
 New York City police commissioner, nominee for secretary of homeland security and unnamed extra on the preview special of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey.'' That is the resume of Bernard B. Kerik, who was indicted in 2007 on corruption, conspiracy and tax fraud charges. Mr. Kerik appears training an attack dog in the yard of one of the housewives on the show. PAGE A25 
 HIGH CIGARETTE SMOKE EXPOSURE
 More than half of all nonsmokers in New York City have elevated levels of a nicotine byproduct in their blood indicating recent exposure to cigarette smoke, a city health department study has found. The figure is surprisingly high given the city's stringent public smoking ban. PAGE A23 
 Business
 A PRESCIENT REQUEST FOR LOANS SETS FORD APART FROM ITS RIVALS
 Plunging car sales have pushed General Motors and Chrysler to the brink of bankruptcy, forcing them to borrow billions from the federal government to stay in business. But the Ford Motor Company, because it borrowed money from the private sector in 2006, is independent and on a course to survive the worst new-vehicle market in nearly 30 years. PAGE B1 
 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY DOWNGRADED
 Moody's Investors Service stripped away the sterling credit rating of Berkshire Hathaway, the famed insurer and investment vehicle run by Warren E. Buffett. Moody's cited the financial and economic pressures on the firm. PAGE B1 
 HD RADIO GETS ANOTHER LOOK
 The HD radio alliance has spent millions of dollars on ads and educational efforts. Yet even after four years of this, most people still don't have any idea what HD radio is. David Pogue solves the mystery and explains why the technology is underappreciated. PAGE B1 
 TESTING THE HEALTH OF BANKS
 For weeks, federal examiners have been trying to determine how some of the nation's biggest banks would hold up if the recession deepened. The good news: the industry seems to be in better shape than many people think. The bad news: many lenders that received bailouts will probably need to be bailed out again. PAGE B1 
 Breakingviews.com B2
 Transcript Shows Fed Worries B3 
 S.E.C. Seeks to Restrict Short-Selling B3 
 Contractors Agree on Destroyer Deal B3 
 AID BEGINS FOR AUTO SUPPLIERS
 The Treasury Department said on Wednesday that it had made as much as $5 billion available to help automotive parts makers survive the industry's worst sales slump in decades. PAGE B4 
 Phone Smart: Chasing the iPhone B7
 SIT. FETCH. SING THE FOUR QUESTIONS.
 A Seder will be conducted on Saturday at Wigglyville, a pet store in Chicago. Who will be sitting around the table? Yarmulke-wearing dogs (at least the dogs that obey ''sit''). The Seder is being sponsored by Evanger's Dog and Cat Food Company to promote its kosher varieties. PAGE B9
 Sports
 CHICAGO PUTS ITS BEST FACE FORWARD
 In Its Bid for the 2016 Olympics
 When the evaluation team from the International Olympic Committee arrived in Chicago to see if the city isright to host the 2016 Summer Olympics, Chicago was ready. Though the city is ranked last in the bidding, an evaluation by Gamesbids.com says the race is tight, unlike previous years. They're still anybody's Games. Page B14 
 Arts
 Architecture Review 
 Industrial and Sleek 
 Need Not Be Bad Qualities
 The new Standard Hotel in Manhattan's meatpacking district could easily be dismissed as some monument to excess. But don't rush to judgment, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. It is serious architecture of a thoughtfully conceived sort that New York has not seen much of lately. Page C1 
 Abroad: A Film, Poland and History C1
 Television Review
 Nice Day for a Weird Wedding
 ''Harpers Island'' puts lots of young people (played by bad actors) on an island for a weeklong wedding celebration, and occasionally somebody gets killed. But the show has CBS's brand of dopey but shamefully watchable entertainment stamped all over it, Ginia Bellafante writes. Page C3 
 Books of the Times: 'The Addict' C4
 Home
 At Home With
 Dinner Is Delicious, But Romeo Is Still Late
 She is a great cook. She is funny. She is attractive. She is, of course, perpetually single. You could call Giulia Melucci's new book -- ''I Loved, I Lost, I Made Spaghetti'' -- ''Sex and the City'' with recipes, but Ms. Melucci doesn't look for the hottest restaurant. She looks for the best. PAGE D1 
 THE KOSHER KITCHEN RENOVATION
 Orthodox Jews can now buy appliances with a ''Sabbath mode,'' which automatically disables the lighting and electronics from sundown on Friday until sundown on Saturday. PAGE D1 
 Garden Q. and A.
 When Your Backyard Is Above
 Q. I'd like to put plants on my terrace on the top floor of a six-story building, but can't figure out what might do well. What do you suggest? PAGE D2 
 The Fix
 So Only the Breeze Passes Through
 Now that it's spring, many people leave their windows open to allow a breeze in. Open windows present two risks: children and pets falling out, and intruders coming in. Screens do little to prevent either of those possibilities. PAGE D2 
 Currents D3
 The Green Home: New I.R.S. Breaks D3 
 Shopping With Kinsey Marable D7
 StyleSTILL DRESSING FOR STEVIE
 At 60, Stevie Nicks is still working the gossamer tunics and shawls that have influenced two generations of Stevie acolytes. Ms. Nicks has released two new DVDs and is on tour. And as might be expected, troupes of leather-and-lace-clad clones are popping up all over. PAGE E1 
 Wife / Mother / Worker/ Spy E2 
 Yoga With Your Dog. Really. E6
 Editorial
 COLUMBINE PLUS 10
 It will soon be the 10th anniversary of the massacre at Columbine High School and the second anniversary of the mass shootings at Virginia Tech. The killing of 13 people in Binghamton, N.Y., last week is yet another reminder of America's terrible gun problem. It is a summons to lawmakers to insist on common-sense gun laws. Yet Congress responds with a collective shrug. Page A22
 HOLD THE LINE ON SCHOOL REFORM
 The federal stimulus money that Congress has set aside for education could get the nation's flagging school reform effort back on the right track. But for that to happen, Education Secretary Arne Duncan will need to tighten the preliminary eligibility guidelines he issued last week for the $49 billion school stabilization fund. Page A22
 MEDICALLY ASSISTED TORTURE
 One disturbing footnote in a recent report by the International Committee of the Red Cross documenting the kinds of torture and abuse inflicted on terrorism suspects by the Central Intelligence Agency is that medical personnel were deeply involved. Page A22
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 One of the historical election landmarks last year had nothing to do with race or the presidency. Rather, it had to do with pigs and chickens -- and with overarching ideas about the limits of human dominion over other species. Page A23
 THE MISGUIDED QUEST FOR UNIVERSAL COVERAGE
 Making sure that every American has health insurance would not generally lower premiums, writes Ramesh Ponnuru, a senior editor at National Review, in an Op-Ed article. Nor is it the best way to give the poor access to good medical care. A better way to accomplish both goals is to make health insurance less expensive and more portable. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (83%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRISONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); ARRESTS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) CAMBODIA (94%); MEXICO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); IRAN (72%); GEORGIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



370 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Homegrown Aid

BYLINE: By JEFFREY D. SACHS. 
Jeffrey D. Sachs, the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia, is the author of ''Common Wealth: Economics for a Crowded Planet'' and a special advisor to the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA has embarked on a promising new course to fight hunger and promote economic growth and political stability in countries like Cambodia, Honduras and Malawi. These countries, and many more, have large populations of impoverished farm families. Tough climates, environmental degradation and a lack of modern farm technology often limit food production to one-third or less of its potential. President Obama recently called upon Congress to double financial support for agricultural growth in developing countries to more than $1 billion in 2010. His program aims to help smallholder farmers get things like better seeds, fertilizer, small-scale irrigation and access to markets so they can overcome hunger and break out of extreme poverty. This new program could have amazing results -- if it is properly carried out. 
 A crucial factor in determining the program's success will be how Washington delivers aid to the farmers. The traditional approach, and the wrong one in this case, would be for Washington to try to decide what's best for each country, and then spend considerable time and money on report-writing, site visits and professional advice. When aid programs are operated this way, they can end up spending half or more of their funds on United States-based travel, personnel and administration, and take years to get off the ground. The benefits for poor countries are then much too little and too late. 
 Rather than have Washington decide the kind of aid each country will receive, the recipient countries should be invited to prepare plans and budgets that would be reviewed by independent experts. These plans would describe the inputs needed by the farmers, the expected increase in production, how the strategy would be put into place and how much money would be required. Such plans, if described with care, could then be closely monitored by the United States and other donors to gauge results and avoid corruption.
 Two international programs during the last decade, championed jointly by the United States, other governments and the Gates Foundation, have demonstrated the benefits of such a scientific, results-based aid approach: the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. These programs have saved millions of lives and protected hundreds of millions more from disease and infection. Here's how they work: Low-income countries submit national action plans to the two programs, which then scrutinize the plans on their scientific, financial and management merits. If the plans are properly put into effect, recipients get more financing.
 It's time to adopt these strategies to fight hunger. The good news is that many poor and hungry countries already have elaborate and sophisticated plans for their smallholder farmers, but until now they've lacked the financial means and donor support to put those plans into action. 
 This is not to say that these countries must do all the planning on their own. They can also draw upon the expertise of international farm experts from respected global agencies like the United Nations International Fund for Agricultural Development in Rome, and food research centers in the United States and abroad. They can also seek guidance from America's land-grant universities, as the Obama plan envisions, and leading agricultural companies.
 For maximum effect, the United States should also pool its efforts with other donor countries and the United Nations. America's $1 billion per year could be at least doubled by the contributions of others, including Spain and the European Commission. The overall program -- pooled financing, country proposals with independent scientific review, and technical assistance for recipient countries -- could be based at the United Nations International Fund for Agricultural Development.
 The Obama administration recognizes that many volatile regions -- the Horn of Africa, parts of the Middle East like Yemen and areas of South and Central Asia -- are unstable in large part because they are hungry and poor. The next step is to empower recipient governments to map their own path to development. Mr. Obama's new initiative could be a major pillar of a strategy that is based on generosity, good science and rigorous management. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); MALARIA (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (72%); FERTILIZERS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); VACCINES (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (65%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



371 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Pulte Homes Buys Centex In Stock Deal Of $1.3 Billion

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Pulte Homes is buying the Centex Corporation for $1.3 billion in stock in a deal that will create the nation's largest builder of homes and could lead to more consolidation in an industry that has been hurt by the worst real estate recession in a generation. 
 The transaction will combine Pulte's strength in retirement housing with Centex's large market share of first-time buyers. The acquisition also will give Pulte large tracts of land in Texas and the Carolinas, two of the most resilient real estate markets, and a presence in 29 states and Washington.
 The new company will keep the Pulte name and headquarters in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. An unspecified number of jobs will be cut.
 The purchase ''allows us to not only survive, but thrive in any economic climate,'' said Richard J. Dugas Jr., Pulte's president and chief executive, who will lead the combined enterprise.
 Though sales of new homes have declined 75 percent from the 2005 peak, home builders have reduced construction but have been slow to merge. The deal raised speculation that other builders with falling stock prices may be easy targets.
 Shares of Lennar and Hovnanian jumped 5 percent, while Beazer rose nearly 15 percent. 
 The combined company will have twice the revenue of its next largest rival, D.R. Horton. 
 On Wednesday, new data showed home loan applications rose 11 percent last week. And sales of new homes climbed almost 5 percent from January to February, providing some hope that the sales drop had reached bottom.
 Integrating Centex's operations will save Pulte $350 million a year. But Wall Street analysts are concerned about the risk of taking on so much land in areas where home prices are still plummeting, including Sacramento and Riverside, Calif., and Cape Coral, Fla.
 Pulte lost almost $3.73 billion in the last two years, more than wiping out all of its profits for the previous three years. Centex lost $2.66 billion last year, erasing its earnings for the last four years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (94%); CENTEX CORP (91%); D R HORTON INC (90%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (94%); DHI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (94%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (94%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (94%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (94%)

PERSON: RICHARD J DUGAS JR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



372 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Sole Minnesota Senator Has Problems Built for 2

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
As the fight over a United States Senate seat from Minnesota seems certain to drag into a sixth month, forgotten in all the fussing is the senator left behind.
 Amy Klobuchar, the ''other'' senator from Minnesota, the one whose election was not contested, recounted or re-recounted, now finds herself the only senator from Minnesota -- a peculiar circumstance in a system that provides two senators per state, and certainly a situation rarely experienced for quite so long. 
 ''I keep hoping that it will end,'' Ms. Klobuchar, a Democrat elected in 2006 to her first term, said this week, adding that her biggest concern is a doubling of requests from ordinary constituents in need of help -- with a missing Social Security check, say, a stalled adoption in Guatemala, or a tangled problem with veterans' benefits. 
 ''The system,'' she said, ''was set up for two senators for a reason.'' 
 Ms. Klobuchar's weekly invitation to share Spam puffs and Slovenian pastry (tastes from her home state) with Minnesotans visiting Washington drew 180 people last Thursday morning, more than twice the number from a year ago. The weekly reception, once held in her office lobby and perhaps a conference room, now spills out through the office, past workers' desks and into halls.
 With only one senator to inundate with advice, to seek help from, or to complain about, six times as many people are calling Ms. Klobuchar's offices than before the election. A new telephone system was installed in her Washington office so calls could be routed to more staff members, not just to the front desk, where the ringing never seemed to stop. 
 And Ms. Klobuchar's meetings with advocacy groups -- like those trying to cure diseases, help injured soldiers, or support ethnic groups in Minnesota -- are up 30 percent. 
 Those who once might have met with Norm Coleman, the Republican who held the other seat for a term and is now battling for a second term against Al Franken, the former comedian and a Democrat, now all show up on Ms. Klobuchar's doorstep. One recent day, she had 17 meetings.
 ''I am a mother, so I'm used to balancing things,'' Ms. Klobuchar said in a telephone interview Tuesday from Vietnam, where she is part of a visiting Congressional delegation led by Senator John McCain. (Her daughter, too, she said, has accepted the new intensity of her mother's responsibilities ''in the grudging way that a 13-year-old does.'') 
 And her staff -- 20 members in Minnesota and 26 in Washington -- has dutifully handled more and more, she said. But she recently asked Senate leaders for some extra help despite relatively rigid rules about such things. 
 ''It's not our state's fault that this is happening,'' Ms. Klobuchar said. She at least jokingly considered suggesting an amendment -- aiding Minnesota -- to a bill the Senate considered to allow the District of Columbia a voting seat in the House. 
 ''We have the same issue of taxation without representation at this point,'' she said. 
 In a way, the time for a state to have a lone senator could not be worse, political experts said.
 Former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, a former senator from Minnesota, said the nation's economic woes and the growing needs of constituents increased the already overwhelming demands facing a senator. ''Doing that all by yourself?'' Mr. Mondale said. ''It's a big burden, really daunting.'' 
 A political scientist at the University of Minnesota, Lawrence R. Jacobs, said that given the deluge of requests for help from those losing jobs, homes, everything, Ms. Klobuchar was ''a little like the Dutch boy trying to plug the dike.''
 Perhaps especially for a first-term senator, there is a fear of something falling through the cracks. When flooding threatened a part of the Midwest recently, she flew there twice and went to great lengths to remind administration officials, ''I'm just one senator, but I want to make sure that you understand that Minnesota is under just as high risk as in North Dakota.'' 
 And when a Medicaid financing matter that could have meant millions of dollars to Minnesota came up in the Senate, Ms. Klobuchar devoted several days to it, worried that her state's lack of a second vote might actually threaten the measure.
 ''I felt like, if I didn't do this, there was no one else to pick up the sticks,'' she said. 
 Ms. Klobuchar has heard the amusing questions. Does she get two votes? (No.) Does she get the other senator's salary? (No.) And Capitol tour guides have come to point her out as a curiosity. (''Senator at large,'' she says, is the one riff she does not much care for.)
 She takes care to say that Mr. Coleman, who trails in the recount, has every right to pursue his options. Then, too, she has often voiced hope for an outcome -- and a second senator -- by the time the ice melted in April on Lake Minnetonka, down near the Twin Cities. 
 She has scaled that hope back a bit lately, to a decision on a fellow senator by the time Lake of the Woods, up near the Canadian border, thaws.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Norm Coleman, above, is battling for a second Senate term against Al Franken.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MONE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WOLF/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Amy Klobuchar, in Vietnam with Senator John Mc- Cain on Tuesday, eagerly awaits a Minnesota colleague.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); VETERANS (68%); MILITARY BENEFITS (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%)

PERSON: AMY KLOBUCHAR (90%); AL FRANKEN (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); GUATEMALA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); VIET NAM (66%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



373 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Obama To Push Immigration Bill As One Priority

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
While acknowledging that the recession makes the political battle more difficult, President Obama plans to begin addressing the country's immigration system this year, including looking for a path for illegal immigrants to become legal, a senior administration official said on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Obama will frame the new effort -- likely to rouse passions on all sides of the highly divisive issue -- as ''policy reform that controls immigration and makes it an orderly system,'' said the official, Cecilia Munoz, deputy assistant to the president and director of intergovernmental affairs in the White House.
 Mr. Obama plans to speak publicly about the issue in May, administration officials said, and over the summer he will convene working groups, including lawmakers from both parties and a range of immigration groups, to begin discussing possible legislation for as early as this fall.
 Some White House officials said that immigration would not take precedence over the health care and energy proposals that Mr. Obama has identified as priorities. But the timetable is consistent with pledges Mr. Obama made to Hispanic groups in last year's campaign. 
 He said then that comprehensive immigration legislation, including a plan to make legal status possible for an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, would be a priority in his first year in office. Latino voters turned out strongly for Mr. Obama in the election. 
 ''He intends to start the debate this year,'' Ms. Munoz said.
 But with the economy seriously ailing, advocates on different sides of the debate said that immigration could become a polarizing issue for Mr. Obama in a year when he has many other major battles to fight.
 Opponents, mainly Republicans, say they will seek to mobilize popular outrage against any effort to legalize unauthorized immigrant workers while so many Americans are out of jobs. 
 Democratic legislative aides said that opening a full-fledged debate this year on immigration, particularly with health care as a looming priority, could weigh down the president's domestic agenda.
 Debate is still under way among administration officials about the precise timing and strategy. For example, it is unclear who will take up the Obama initiative in Congress. 
 No serious legislative talks on the issue are expected until after some of Mr. Obama's other priorities have been debated, Congressional aides said.
 Just last month, Mr. Obama openly recognized that immigration is a potential minefield.
 ''I know this is an emotional issue; I know it's a controversial issue,'' he told an audience at a town meeting on March 18 in Costa Mesa, Calif. ''I know that the people get real riled up politically about this.''
 But, he said, immigrants who are long-time residents but lack legal status ''have to have some mechanism over time to get out of the shadows.''
 The White House is calculating that public support for fixing the immigration system, which is widely acknowledged to be broken, will outweigh opposition from voters who argue that immigrants take jobs from Americans. A groundswell among voters opposed to legal status for illegal immigrants led to the defeat in 2007 of a bipartisan immigration bill that was strongly supported by President George W. Bush. 
 Administration officials said that Mr. Obama's plan would not add new workers to the American work force, but that it would recognize millions of illegal immigrants who have already been working here. Despite the deep recession, there is no evidence of any wholesale exodus of illegal immigrant workers, independent studies of census data show. 
 Opponents of legalization legislation were incredulous at the idea that Mr. Obama would take on immigration when economic pain for Americans is so widespread. 
 ''It just doesn't seem rational that any political leader would say, let's give millions of foreign workers permanent access to U.S. jobs when we have millions of Americans looking for jobs,'' said Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a group that favors reduced immigration. Mr. Beck predicted that Mr. Obama would face ''an explosion'' if he proceeded this year.
 ''It's going to be, 'You're letting them keep that job, when I could have that job,' '' he said. 
 In broad outlines, officials said, the Obama administration favors legislation that would bring illegal immigrants into the legal system by recognizing that they violated the law, and imposing fines and other penalties to fit the offense. The legislation would seek to prevent future illegal immigration by strengthening border enforcement and cracking down on employers who hire illegal immigrants, while creating a national system for verifying the legal immigration status of new workers. 
 But administration officials emphasized that many details remained to be debated. 
 Opponents of a legalization effort said that if the Obama administration maintained the enforcement pressure initiated by Mr. Bush, the recession would force many illegal immigrants to return home. Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said it would be ''politically disastrous'' for Mr. Obama to begin an immigration initiative at this time.
 Anticipating opposition, Mr. Obama has sought to shift some of the political burden to advocates for immigrants, by encouraging them to build support among voters for when his proposal goes to Congress. 
 That is why Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Mr. Obama's hometown, Chicago, has been on the road most weekends since last December, traveling far outside his district to meetings in Hispanic churches, hoping to generate something like a civil rights movement in favor of broad immigration legislation.
 Mr. Gutierrez was in Philadelphia on Saturday at the Iglesia Internacional, a big Hispanic evangelical church in a former warehouse, the 17th meeting in a tour that has included cities as far flung as Providence, R.I.; Atlanta; Miami; and San Francisco. Greeted with cheers and amens by a full house of about 350 people, Mr. Gutierrez, shifting fluidly between Spanish and English, called for immigration policies to preserve family unity, the strategic theme of his campaign.
 At each meeting, speakers from the community, mainly citizens, tell stories of loved ones who were deported or of delays and setbacks in the immigration system. Illegal immigrants have not been invited to speak. 
 Mr. Gutierrez's meetings have all been held in churches, both evangelical and Roman Catholic, with clergy members from various denominations, including in several places Muslim imams. At one meeting in Chicago, Cardinal Francis George, president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, officiated. 
 One speaker on Saturday, Jill Flores, said that her husband, Felix, an immigrant from Mexico who crossed the border illegally, had applied for legal status five years ago but had not been able to gain it even though she is an American citizen, as are their two children. Now, Ms. Flores said, she fears that her husband will have to leave for Mexico and will not be permitted to return for many years. 
 In an interview, Mr. Gutierrez rejected the idea that the timing is bad for an immigration debate. ''There is never a wrong time for us,'' he said. ''Families are being divided and destroyed, and they need help now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, center, has been visiting churches to build support for a bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



374 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Downgrades Berkshire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
In these economic times, even Warren E. Buffett can't qualify for the best credit rating.
 Moody's Investors Service on Wednesday stripped away the triple-A rating of Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate and investment vehicle run by Mr. Buffett, citing the economic pressures on the firm. 
 The news is yet another sign that, despite all of Mr. Buffett's investing prowess and business savvy, even the man that investors regard as the Oracle of Omaha cannot avoid the tremors coursing through the markets.
 The ratings downgrades affect Berkshire as a whole as well as a wide swath of its insurance subsidiaries, including its flagship National Indemnity, as well as other units like the auto insurer Geico and the municipal bond insurer Berkshire Hathaway Assurance.
 ''Today's rating actions reflect the impact on Berkshire's key businesses of the severe decline in equity markets over the past year as well as the protracted economic recession,'' Bruce Ballentine, Moody's lead analyst for Berkshire, said in a statement.
 Moody's said that National Indemnity's capital cushion fell 22 percent last year to $27.6 billion, as the market slide eroded the value of its stock holdings. The thinning of that regulatory capital continued through early March, the agency said.
 Though another ratings agency, Fitch Ratings, downgraded the company last month, Moody's is bigger and more widely cited. The parent company of Moody's is 20 percent owned by Berkshire, but Mr. Buffett has not exerted any control over the company. Standard & Poor's, the other large agency, warned last month that it might also trim its Berkshire ratings.
 Like all financial companies, insurers are built on confidence and trust, and a high credit rating more than anything can bolster that perception. Last month, General Electric lost its own triple-A rating, reflecting the enormous stress that its financial arm had suffered through the credit turmoil.
 For years, Berkshire maintained a rarefied status among American companies, buoyed by the investing skills of Mr. Buffett and the general health of his businesses. Berkshire's main business is insurance, but it also owns stakes in blue-chip companies and an assortment of consumer businesses, like See's Candies. 
 Moody's said that Berkshire's finances strongly support its new, lower credit rating and that its outlook is stable. Several of its noninsurance units, like the energy producer MidAmerican Energy Holdings, are performing well and are not tied to problematic parts of the economy, while its insurance businesses continue to reap underwriting gains.
 Yet the rough economy has led to a 62 percent drop in net income for 2008 and a surprising 96 percent plunge in the fourth quarter. Some of its biggest investments, including Coca-Cola and American Express, have dropped in value. Subsidiaries like Clayton Homes, a seller of manufactured homes, will probably still struggle in a stagnant housing market.
 In his letter to investors this year, Mr. Buffett acknowledged that he had done ''some dumb things'' and lamented ''a series of life-threatening problems within many of the world's great financial institutions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren E. Buffett, influential head of Berkshire Hathaway.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); INSURANCE COMPANY RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009



375 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2924 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
Museums and Sites
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Saturday at 1 p.m., Francois Vuilleumier, editor in chief of the book ''Birds of North America,'' will be present for a signing. Through Aug. 16, ''Climate Change: The Threat to Life and a New Energy Future,'' an interactive display. Through May 25, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter.'' In the Imax theater through May 23, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Wild Ocean,'' about underwater survival of migrating species, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur fossils. 
Timed tickets to ''Climate Change'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for ages 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20090409
HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN Monday through Wednesday, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., ''Spring Open Village'' features springtime activities at the Staten Island Historical Society. Every Wednesday through April 29 at 7:30 p.m., English country dancing; $5. Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., Scottish, Irish, Appalachian and Cajun folk music performed by the group Point Cross (part of the Tavern Concerts series); $15; $12 for members; reservations required, Ext. 281. Open Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Additional tours on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and on weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town, Staten Island, (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5.20090409
MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK Monday at 10 a.m., The Partnership for Brownfield Practitioners celebrates New York City's most successful brownfield cleanup and redevelopment projects; in conjunction with the exhibition ''Growing and Greening New York,'' an exploration of the ways to achieve environmental sustainability in keeping with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's initiative known as PlaNYC 2030 (through April 22). Through Sept. 27, ''Amsterdam/New Amsterdam: The Worlds of Henry Hudson,'' an exhibition in celebration of the 400th anniversary of Hudson's voyage, with paintings, maps, navigational instruments and other items. Through May 3, ''Unseen Works From the Stettheimer Dollhouse,'' featuring 15 items that have not been on display before. Through June 9, ''Stoops of Manhattan -- Railings and Shadows: Paintings by Andrew Berrien Jones.'' Through May 17, ''Valentina: American Couture and the Cult of Celebrity'' includes clothing, accessories and photographs. Through Sunday, ''Broken Glass: Photographs of the South Bronx by Ray Mortenson.'' Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays from 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families.20090409
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Wednesday at 8 p.m., Dave Brubeck, jazz pianist, gives a talk about his career and a short performance; $10; $5 for students. Through May 9, ''40 Years of Firsts: Dance Theater of Harlem,'' an exhibition of photographs, costumes and other items. Library hours: Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org; free.20090409
NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Opening Tuesday, ''The Route of the Dashing Commuter: The Long Island Rail Road at 175,'' a new exhibit to commemorate Long Island Railroad's 175th anniversary (through Sept. 13). Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 694-1600; $5; $3 for ages 3 to 17 and 62+; free for members and children under 3 every day, and for 62+ on Wednesdays.20090409
NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a talk on the economy, ''The Global Financial Crisis, A Great Depression?,'' with James D. Wolfensohn, Niall Ferguson and Richard Sylla, economic experts; $15; $10 for students, educators and 65+. Through July 12, ''Abraham Lincoln in His Own Words: An Intimate View of Our Greatest President,'' an exhibition of speeches, letters and other documents. Through March 2010, ''First Flowers: Colonial Portraits at the New-York Historical Society.'' Through May 25, ''Taking the Oath: The First Presidential Inauguration,'' an exhibition of artifacts from Washington's swearing-in, including a chair and a balustrade from Federal Hall, the site of the ceremony. Through May 3, ''A New President Takes Command,'' an exhibition on Franklin D. Roosevelt's first 100 days in office, with documents, photographs and newsreels, also featuring materials from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, N.Y. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 1220090409
ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME ANNEX NYC With artifacts including photographs, vintage amplifiers and Bruce Springsteen's 1957 Chevy. Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 76 Mercer Street, SoHo, (646) 786-6680, rockannex.com. Timed tickets: $24.50; $22.50 for 65+; $16.50 for those 4 to 12.20090409
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM Through January, ''Treasures of a President: F .D .R. and the Sea,'' an exhibition based on Roosevelt's love of sailing and collecting, with prints, drawings, letters and ship models. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; extended hours to 9 p.m. on the third Friday of every month. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8786, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; $10; $8 for students and 65+; $5 for those 5 to 12 ; free for those 4 and under and for everyone during extended hours on the third Friday of the month.20090409
Gardens
BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN Through May 10, ''Hanami,'' the annual cherry blossom display with related events. Through May 24, ''My Favorite Garden: Works by Monika E. de Vries Gohlke,'' an exhibition of etchings, paintings and drawings. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; weekends and holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 623-7200, bbg.org; $8; $4 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members at all times and for 65+ on Fridays. Free Tuesdays, all day, and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon.20090409
NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN Through Sunday, ''The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern,'' a display of thousands of flowers, set in a contemporary garden, with artwork. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, weather permitting, every 20 minutes. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org; An all-garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $8 for children 2 to 12; free for members and children under 2. Grounds admission only: $6; $5 for Bronx residents; $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; free for under 2 and for everyone all day on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking, $12.20090409
SNUG HARBOR CULTURAL CENTER AND BOTANICAL GARDEN Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., a free compost give-away and discounted compost bins at the botanical garden. In the main hall, the Waintrob Collection, including the art of Georgia O'Keeffe, Henry Moore and many others, is on display through July 19. Grounds hours: daily, dawn to dusk; the one-acre Scholar's Garden and the Secret Garden are open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island, (718) 448-2500, snug-harbor.org; grounds admission: free. Scholar's Garden hours and admission: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; $5; $4 for 62+, students and under 12. Secret Garden: $2 (adult with a child, free); $1 per child.20090409
Events
BOOK FORUM AT THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY Tuesday at 7 p.m., ''The Death of Boom Culture?,'' a discussion with Walter Benn Michaels, David Simon, Susan Straight and Dale Peck on the social vision of contemporary storytelling. South Court Auditorium, Stephen A. Schwarzman Building, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (917) 275-6975, nypl.org/live; $25; $15 for library donors, students and 65+.20090409
THE CATHEDRAL OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE Wednesday at 7 p.m., a screening of ''Man on Wire,'' followed by a discussion with Philippe Petit, artist and author of ''To Reach the Clouds.'' 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (866) 811-4111, stjohndivine.org; $20.20090409
FALES LECTURE IN ENGLISH AND AMERICAN LITERATURE Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''Is There a Future for the Literary Novel?,'' a panel discussion at the Fales Library at New York University, featuring John Freeman, Jonathan Galassi, Jessica Hagedorn and Ira Silverberg as panelists. Reservations: (212) 992-9018. Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, third floor, Greenwich Village; free.20090409
FLAHERTY NYC Monday at 7:30 p.m., a screening and discussion of Marie Losier's ''Manuelle Labor.'' Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 448-0457, flahertyseminar.org; $10; $8 for members and students.20090409
MURRAY HILL MARKET AT P.S. 116 An indoor and outdoor market, sponsored by the P.T.A. Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., P.S. 116, East 32nd Street, at Second Avenue; free.20090409
NEW YORK SOCIETY LIBRARY Through Dec. 31, ''The President's Wife and the Librarian,'' an exhibition of correspondence between Edith Kermit Roosevelt and Marion King. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. New York Society Library, 53 East 79th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-5232, nysoclib.org; free.20090409
NOGUCHI MUSEUM SECOND SUNDAY At 3 p.m., an artist-led tour of the museum, focusing on the work of Noguchi. Part of the INtersections series. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org; $10; $5 for students and 60+; free for New York City public school students with valid ID and for children under 12.20090409
PARSONS THE NEW SCHOOL FOR DESIGN ''e uno plures,'' a sculptural installation by Greg Blonder that explores evolution in recognition of the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's ''On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection.'' Hours: Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. Sheila C. Johnson Design Center, 2 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 229-8919, newschool.edu/observer; free.20090409
PROSPECT PARK AUDUBON CENTER Saturday and Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m., ''Unscrambling the Egg,'' a program in which to learn entertaining facts about eggs, with crafts, games and exhibits. Reachable from the entrance at Lincoln Road and Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn. (718) 965-8999, prospectpark.org; free.20090409
SPIRITUAL LIBERATION: HOW THE ZOHAR REIMAGINES GOD Sunday at 2 p.m., a discussion on the Zohar (Book of Splendor) with Daniel C. Matt at the Yeshiva University Museum. An exhibition of Zohar-inspired paintings by the artist Michael Haffta. Yeshiva University Museum, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 294-8330, yumuseum.org; free.20090409
'TRACKING THE CREDIT CRISIS: A TIMELINE' A display and video presentation documenting the financial crisis, with updates as they occur. Open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Museum of American Finance, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 908-4110, moaf.org; $8; $5 for children 7 and older, students and 62+; free for 6 and under.20090409
TUDOR CITY GREENS OUTDOOR CONCERT Wednesday at 6 p.m., ''Make Our Garden Grow,'' a music and comedy show featuring Broadway and cabaret performers. Hosted by Raissa Katona Bennet, a former ''Phantom of the Opera'' cast member and a Tudor City resident. Tudor City Greens, East 42nd Street, between First and Second Avenues; free. A reception will follow the performance at 925 Lounge, 800 Second Avenue, at 42nd Street.20090409
Spoken Word
ITALIAN AMERICAN WRITERS ASSOCIATION Saturday at 5:45 p.m., in celebration of National Poetry Month, the Italian Writers Association hosts a reading and open-mike night at Cornelia Street Cafe with Michael Palma and Angelo Verga, poets. 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $7.20090409
MCNALLY JACKSON BOOKS Thursday at 7 p.m., a celebration of National Poetry Month with the Academy of American Poets, featuring J. D. McClatchy, author of ''Mercury Dressing''; Susan Wheeler, author of ''Assorted Poems''; and Mark Halliday, author of ''Keep This Forever.'' 52 Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com; free.20090409
PARTNERS & CRIME MYSTERY BOOKSELLERS Thursday at 7 p.m., a reading and discussion of debut novels with Jane K. Cleland, author of the ''Josie Prescott Antiques'' mysteries, and Donald Bain, author of the ''Murder, She Wrote'' series. At 44 Greenwich Avenue, near Charles Street, West Village, (212) 243-0440, crimepays.com; free.20090409
POETS HOUSE SHOWCASE Monday at 7 p.m., readings from the poetry of Constantine P. Cavafy, featuring new translations by Daniel Mendelsohn. Presented by Poets House. Cooper Union, Great Hall, 7 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 431-7920, poetshouse.org; free.20090409
Walking Tours
1625: DUTCH NEW YORKSaturday at 11 a.m., a walk along the shoreline of Lower Manhattan, meeting on the steps of the National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green. Led by Maria Dering.(646) 573-9509; $20, $15 for students and 65+.20090409
A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYNDaily walking tours at noon of the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Park Slope and nearby Prospect Park. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 209-3370.brooklynwalkingtour.com; $30; $15 for children, including lunch.20090409
BERNIE'S NEW YORKSunday at 2 p.m. ''SoHo/Nolita -- NYC's Two Left Banks''; highlights include the Puck Building and Old St. Patrick's Cathedral. Meeting on the northwest corner of Spring Street and Avenue of the Americas.(718) 655-1883; $15.20090409
BIG ONION WALKING TOURSSaturday at 11 a.m. a walking tour of Greenwich Village. Stops include the Jefferson Market Courthouse, St. Luke-in-the-Fields Chapel, and the home of E. E. Cummings. Meeting at the northeast corner of Seventh Avenue South at Christopher Street.(212) 439-1090, bigonion.com; $15; $12 for 63+, students and members of the New-York Historical Society.20090409
JEWISH LOWER EAST SIDETwo holiday tours on Sunday. Big Onion Walking Tours will meet at 1 p.m. on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets; $15; $12 for students and 63+; (212) 439-1090, bigonion.com. New York Talks and Walks will meet in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, at Essex Street; $15 by credit card or $20 in cash; (888) 377-4455, newyorktalksandwalks.com.20090409
METRO TOUR SERVICEFridays through Sundays at 2 p.m., a tour of the historic sites and institutions of Harlem. Meeting at the Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street. Reservations are required: (718) 789-0430.$25.20090409
MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Go Go Gowanus'' covers the banks of Brooklyn's famous canal, visiting Carroll Gardens Historic District; meeting at Smith and President Streets. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Back to the Bronx, Part 1: Mott Haven,'' an urban tour of the South Bronx neighborhoods of Melrose and Morrisania. Meeting at the Southeast corner of 125th Street and Lexington Avenue, Harlem. (212) 935-1049, mas.org; $15; $10 for members.20090409
OUTDOORS CLUBSaturday at 10:30 a.m., ''Rockaway Park to Fort Tilden,'' a five-mile beach hike, meeting at 129th Street, Rockaway Park.(212) 242-5384; $3.20090409
PLAZA HOTEL TOURS Tuesdays and Saturdays at 3 p.m., free tours of this famous hotel, led by Francis Marrone, an architectural historian. 1 West 58th Street, Manhattan. Reservations: (212) 588-8012.20090409
SHOREWALKERSSaturday at 9:30 a.m., ''Queens and King's West Shore.'' A walking tour from Queensboro Bridge to Brooklyn Bridge, stopping for lunch at Greenpoint Restaurant. Meeting at Second Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan.(212) 686-5095, shorewalkers.org; donations accepted.20090409
1625: DUTCH NEW YORKSaturday at 11 a.m., a walk along the shoreline of Lower Manhattan, meeting on the steps of the National Museum of the American Indian, the United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green. Led by Maria Dering.(646) 573-9509; $20; $15 for students and 65+.20090409
UNCLE SAM'S NEW YORKDaily Manhattan tours. At 11 a.m., the theater district, meeting at the Times Square Alliance Information Center, Seventh Avenue at 46th Street; at 1 p.m., the financial district, meeting at the entrance to Battery Park, across from No. 1 Broadway, Lower Manhattan; at 2 p.m., Greenwich Village cultural sites, meeting at the Washington Arch.(917) 655-0906, unclesamsnewyork.com; each, $20.20090409
UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORKSaturdays at 2 p.m., a tour focusing on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership.(212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.20090409

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mutek--10: Brooklyn Preview: Missed the recent Winter Music Conference in Miami? Is Mutek--10, the summer festival for technoheads in Montreal, a dim prospect thanks to the dimming economy? This weekend there's a chance to catch up with the international electronica scene locally when, as part of a celebration of the 10th anniversary of the festival, Mutek presents its first tour. The only stop in the United States is at Studio B in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where the lineup includes the Canadian-by-way-of- Berlin artist Guillaume Coutu Dumont
the Manchester group known collectively as Modern Love (above)
the London dubstepper Pangaea
and Ezekiel Honig, a minimalist from New York. Though the city hasn't always been a techno hub, ''I think this has changed quite a bit over the last year or two years,'' said Audrey Powell, the director of partnerships and development for Mutek, which is based in Montreal. ''More and more European artists who are coming to North America are stopping in New York to perform. I think today it's quite an important city for electronic music.'' Not as much as, say, Berlin, where many of Mutek's founding artists now live. (''It's easier to organize Mutek events in Europe than in Montreal,'' Ms. Powell said.) Still, she hopes the diverse bill appeals enough to Brooklyn fans to serve as an appetite-whetter for the main event in Canada in May. ''For someone not familiar, it's a good opportunity to discover what the music is about,'' she said. ''It's going to evolve from -- how can I say? -- something more quiet, to dubstep, to Guillaume, who is much more into dance floor music.'' The event organizers have offered a lure for people who consider even Brooklyn too far afield: present your taxi or car service receipt and get a free drink. The only downside is not getting to take advantage of the exchange rate. (Saturday from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, beyondbooking.com or clubstudiob.com
$10 before midnight
 $20 after.) (PHOTOGRAPH BY KINETIC ARTIST MANAGEMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (84%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); FILM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (63%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



376 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
FOR CHILDREN
BARNYARD EASTER EGG HUNT (Saturday) The Easter Bunny, known as Whiskers, visiting the Queens County Farm Museum for this important occasion isn't a real animal. But the other creatures on this working farm are, including sheep and goats. Children can feed them as well as take part in an egg toss, egg rolling games and the annual egg hunt in the orchard. Noon to 4 p.m. 73-50 Little Neck Parkway, Floral Park, (718) 347-3276, queensfarm.org; $5.20090409
BUBBLEMANIA! (Saturday through Thursday) Casey Carle is forever blowing bubbles, but his are more extraordinary than most: six-foot spheres, cubes, fog-filled bubble sculptures, even bubbles that burst into flame. He will show off the fun (and the physics) of his creations in shows at 2, 3 and 4 p.m. at the New York Hall of Science. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows, Queens, (718) 699-0005, nyscience.org; $4; $2 for members, in addition to museum admission: $11; $8 for 2 through 17, students and 62+; free for under 2. Free to all Sunday from 10 to 11 a.m.20090409 
TOM CHAPIN (Saturday) Tom Chapin has said that he writes songs that contain ''a little bit of anarchy'' -- not unusual for a singer who came of age in the 1960s. Except that Mr. Chapin is not referring to politics, but to children's shenanigans. He will celebrate them, as well as family, environmentalism and other subjects, in two concerts at Queens Theater in the Park. At 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 760-0064, queenstheatre.org; $12.20090409
'DORA THE EXPLORER LIVE! SEARCH FOR THE CITY OF LOST TOYS'(Friday through Sunday) Children aren't usually interested in long road trips to big cities; they prefer Disney World, thank you. But many preschoolers would be delighted to visit the metropolis whose streets are now at Radio City Music Hall: the City of Lost Toys. That's the latest destination for television's Dora the Explorer. In this live stage show, the audience helps her and several friends find missing playthings. Friday through Sunday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; additional 5 p.m. shows on Saturday and Sunday;(212) 307-4111, radiocity.com/dora; $29 to $79.20090409
LA FAMIGLIA DIMITRI (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) It sounds as if it should be a boisterous Italian family restaurant. It's actually a boisterous Swiss family circus. They're visiting the New Victory Theater with a show combining acrobatics, comedy and vaudeville. (Through April 29.) Friday, Saturday and Wednesday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m.; Thursday at 7 p.m.; 209 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org.; $12.50, $25 and $35; $8.75 to $24.50 for members.20090409
'THE FROG & THE WITCH' (Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Thursday) Pyx, the frog of the title, has a frog in his throat. Formerly a fantastic singer, he consults a witch to cure his croaking. Presented by Vital Children's Theater, the show, with book and lyrics by Sammy Buck and music by Daniel S. Acquisto, also encourages the witch to do something about her industrial-strength potions. (Through April 26.) Friday at noon and 2 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; Thursday at 11 a.m.; McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 579-0528, vitaltheatre.org; $20.20090409
GO WILD AND INNOVATE FESTIVAL (Friday through Thursday) Going wild (largely with the imagination) and creating new things will be on the agenda each day of this celebration at the Children's Museum of Manhattan. Hourly every weekday, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. (except 1 p.m.), young visitors can put together an art installation. Those same hours on Saturday will be devoted to making a matzo cover for Passover, and on Sunday to decorating papier-mache Easter eggs. Certain days, at 2 and 3 p.m., the museum will also offer inspiring performances: on Saturday, it's junk music with the Junkman. Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223, cmom.org. Free with admission: $10; $7 for 65+; free for under 1 and members.20090409
'LITTLE IS BIG' (Wednesday and Thursday) Large fish don't usually think of small fish as friends; they're more likely to consider them first courses. But in this shadow puppet presentation from the Shadow Box Theater, a little fish named Spinny actually finds a way -- with the help of young audience members -- to exist harmoniously with his bigger brethren. (Through April 24.) Wednesday at 10:30 a.m.; Thursday at 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.; the Theaters at 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 724-0677, shadowboxtheatre.org; $10; $7.50 for groups.20090409
MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (Monday through Thursday) Spring break is a time to enjoy movies, and this museum will engage children in making them as well as watching them. Daily workshops at 12:30, 2 and 3:30 p.m. will teach them how to create their own stop-motion animations (recommended for ages 8 and older). Visitors 6 to 12 can also participate in a daily workshop at 11:30 a.m. to make a thaumatrope, a 19th-century optical toy. And for those who just want to sit back and watch, the museum offers daily screenings of ''A Grand Day Out,'' an Oscar-nominated Wallace and Gromit animated film (hourly from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.). 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens,, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us. Workshop materials fees: $10 for animation; $5 for thaumatrope. (Registration at the museum.) Screenings are free, though a $5 contribution is suggested for museum admission.20090409
SPLASH WEEK (Monday through Thursday) It sounds like fun -- and it is -- but it's also about something serious: safety. Every year the West Side Y.M.C.A. holds a week of basic lessons in swimming and water skills for children age 6 months and older. The 30-minute classes are divided by age and run from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. And the whole endeavor is recession-proof: it's free. (Through April 17; registration required.) 5 West 63rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-4214, www.ymcanyc.org/westside.20090409
'TREASURE ISLAND'LAUREL GRAEBER5128 'TREASURE ISLAND' (Saturday, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) Yo, ho ho and a bottle of rum. Well, this production won't emphasize rum, but it will offer plenty of pirate antics. A musical adaptation by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell, the show, recommended for ages 5 and older, is presented by Literally Alive Children's Theater. A preshow workshop includes an art project. (Through May 10.) On weekends the workshop is at 10 a.m., the show at 11; Wednesday and Thursday the workshop is at 2 p.m. and the show at 3. Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, literallyalive.com; $25; $20 for children; workshop, $5 for children, free for adults. LAUREL GRAEBER20090409
Correction: April 11, 2009, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry in the Spare Times for Children listing on Friday about performances of ''Treasure Island'' by the Literally Alive Children's Theater, using information provided by the theater, erroneously included two days among those on which the show will be performed. While performances are scheduled for the remaining Saturdays and Sundays of the show's run through May 10 at the Players Theater in Greenwich Village, as well as next Wednesday and Thursday, it will not be performed today and tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MUSIC (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); SONG WRITING (65%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%); FIRES (54%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



377 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Settlement Clears Way for Aid to Sacramento

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento, and a nonprofit group he founded, have agreed to repay nearly $425,000 in federal money to lift a suspension that threatened to jeopardize millions of dollars in stimulus money due to the city. 
 Mr. Johnson, a former N.B.A. All-Star star who was elected as the city's first black mayor last fall, was suspended in September from receiving any federal monies after an investigation by the Corporation for National and Community Service, which oversees nearly $1 billion in grants to volunteer and nonprofit groups. 
 The investigation found a variety of financial improprieties at St. HOPE, a community redevelopment organization Mr. Johnson founded in 1989, including the use of AmeriCorps money to increase the pay of two St. HOPE employees and the use of AmeriCorps members to run personal errands. 
 And, while the suspension applied to Mr. Johnson and St. HOPE, some in Sacramento -- including the city attorney, Eileen M. Teichert -- feared that it might interfere with the city's getting its stimulus package, a concern reflected in the announcement of the settlement on Thursday.
 ''The lifting of the suspension against all parties, including Mayor Johnson, removes any cloud whether the City of Sacramento will be prevented from receiving much-needed federal stimulus funds,'' said Lawrence G. Brown, the acting United States attorney in Sacramento, who had previously found no basis for criminal charges in the matter. 
 The settlement, which also covers St. HOPE's former executive director, Dana Gonzalez, represents half of what St. HOPE received in AmeriCorps grants from the government between 2004 and 2007. 
 Mr. Johnson, who earned millions in the N.B.A., will pay nearly $73,000 of the settlement out of his own pocket. 
 ''From the get-go, I said that federal funds to the city were never at risk, and that the suspension was unwarranted and unnecessary,'' Mr. Johnson said in a statement. ''This settlement confirms that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento had been suspended from receiving federal money after an inquiry into a nonprofit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORP FOR NATIONAL & COMMUNITY SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: KEVIN JOHNSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



378 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Bank of England Vows to Buy Assets to Bolster Lending

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The British central bank said on Thursday that it would fully carry out a $:75 billion asset-purchase program during the next two months, seeking to reassure investors that it was committed to steps to revive bank lending. 
 The Bank of England made the announcement after its Monetary Policy Committee left its main interest rate at 0.5 percent, the level it set in March and the lowest in its three-century history. The bank had been cutting rates since last October, when the rate stood at 5 percent.
 Like the Federal Reserve in the United States and the Bank of Japan, which also have set official interest rates at rock-bottom levels, the British monetary authorities have begun unconventional operations, including so-called quantitative easing, to increase lending. 
 The Monetary Policy Committee voted last month to use the bank's balance sheet to buy $:75 billion, or about $110 billion, of government and company bonds -- effectively creating new money.
 But investors had been demanding more clarity about the bond purchase plans, after the Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, appeared to suggest last month in an address to Parliament that the program might be retired early.
 In a terse statement Thursday, the bank said: ''The committee noted that since its previous meeting a total of just over $:26 billion of asset purchases had been made and that it would take a further two months to complete that program.''
 The economic news from Britain remains grim. The central bank's survey of credit conditions showed last week that financial institutions remained wary of extending credit amid rising mortgage defaults and fear over the economic outlook. 
 On Tuesday, the Office for National Statistics reported that manufacturing output slumped by 6.5 percent in the December-February period compared with the previous three months. A report Thursday showed March producer prices in check, rising just 2 percent from a year earlier.
 ''The data of the last week or two suggest we might be past the worst,'' Vicky Redwood, an economist at Capital Economics in London, said. ''But they also suggest that the U.K. economy is a long way from actual growth.''
 Ms. Redwood forecasts the economy will shrink 4 percent this year, and by a further 1 percent in 2010.
 As in Spain, the United States and Ireland, Britain's economy grew rapidly during the years of easy credit, helped along by a frothy property market.
 The credit crisis last year and tumbling housing prices have sent the economy into a tailspin, cost millions of Britons their jobs and undermined government finances.
 Last week, the European Central Banklowered its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent, from 1.5 percent, less than was expected. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the Bank of England's efforts to revive bank lending misstated the extent of joblessness in Britain. The ranks of the unemployed rose more than 420,000 in 2008, to 2 million; the country has not lost ''millions'' of jobs since the credit freeze and housing crisis undermined the economy last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Remarks by Mervyn King, its governor, unsettled investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); HOME PRICES (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



379 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS HOOD RIVER, ORE.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: An Outdoor Mecca Where Adults Play Nice

BYLINE: By JEFF SCHLEGEL

 BODY:
NESTLED on the south shore of the Columbia River, the city of Hood River, Ore., is surrounded by enduring images of the Pacific Northwest. The towering, snow-capped peaks of Mount Hood to the south and Mount Adams to the north in Washington bracket the view, while the nearby countryside is blanketed with pear, apple and cherry orchards. Then there's the Columbia itself: the gorge it carves through the Cascade Mountains funnels steady winds that make Hood River an epicenter of windsurfing and kiteboarding.
 Hood River was built on farming and timber. Its namesake river, which flows into the Columbia, was spotted by Lewis and Clark in 1805, and settlers had arrived in the area by the mid-19th century. The two industries remain regional economic mainstays (Hood River County is the self-proclaimed Anjou pear capital of the world), but outdoor enthusiasts know Hood River as a recreational mecca. 
 Justin Spelhaug first came to Hood River as a teenager to windsurf and last April bought a vacation home overlooking the Columbia. ''There's world-class recreation,'' Mr. Spelhaug said, ''with Class V rapids, highest-end windsurfing, top-notch mountain biking, and snowboarding and skiing all within a 20-mile radius.'' 
 Mr. Spelhaug cites the town's progressive sensibilities, including encouraging the construction of environmentally friendly buildings and protecting and promoting the region's agrarian economy. ''There are a lot of down-to-earth people sharing the same passions,'' he said.
 Mr. Spelhaug, 34, who works for Microsoft in the Seattle area, paid $225,000 for his downtown property. ''I basically bought the dirt,'' he said. Actually, he bought a 700-square-foot early-1900s house on a 5,000-square-foot lot. ''We're investing a few thousand dollars to spruce it up and make it more livable for the next couple of years,'' he said, adding that he and his wife, Jen, planned eventually to tear it down and build a new home.
 The Spelhaugs enjoy taking their two children, ages 2 and 4, to Mike's Ice Cream parlor and to the parks in town -- with an ulterior motive for Mr. Spelhaug. ''We take them to the park,'' he said, ''get them tired, and that frees up Dad to hit the water during nap time.'' 
 The Hood River Valley beyond town is a scenic area watched over by 11,239-foot Mount Hood. Diane and Steve Zipper of Portland had looked for a property in Hood River for more than six months when, in February 2008, they paid $324,000 for a 900-square-foot house on a half-acre in the valley about two miles from town. 
 ''It's in our price range and it has a killer view of Mount Hood and the valley,'' said Ms. Zipper, who works for a renewable power advocacy group. ''It's in the middle of pear orchards. I think it was built as a manager's cottage in the 1940s.''
 The Zippers, both 39, love mountain biking, skiing, snowshoeing and hiking. But with two young children, they envision getting to Hood River for recreation only a few times a year for the foreseeable future. And relocation isn't in the cards because of Mr. Zipper's busy tax law practice. But they thought the time was right to buy.
 ''We're pretty risk averse,'' Ms. Zipper said. ''But every time we're out there it feels so right. I have no doubt we'll build on that property.''
 The Scene
 It's a laid-back, eclectic area where people tied to the region's traditional resources-based economy mingle with newcomers steeped in adventure sports and, to some extent, technology. ''Hood River has this nice mix of people with traditional approaches and people with broader perspectives,'' said Matt Swihart, a co-owner of the Double Mountain brewpub. ''It's a fun place that way.''
 Hood River's busy downtown is centered on Oak Street, where a number of stores cater to the outdoor crowd. The town's core is a handsome mix of late-Victorian and 1920s-era Craftsman architecture. Construction basically ceased during the Depression and World War II, so California ranch-style homes predominate elsewhere, and suburban-style homes from the '70s and '80s are prevalent outside of town. The city's population is 6,736, according to a 2007 Census estimate.
 Hood River's prime time is in summer, when windsurfers and kiteboarders flock to the gorge and speckle the river with scores of sails. The Columbia acts as a conduit for moisture-laden coastal air to replace the warmer air rising in the drier region east of the Cascades, creating steady winds that first attracted windsurfers to Hood River in the early 1980s, followed in recent years by kiteboarders. Mountain bikers and kayakers discovered the region in the latter half of the 1990s. 
 ''It's becoming a sort of family place where people can do their own sport in a multisport environment,'' said Maui Meyer, principal broker and owner at Copper West Properties and a former professional windsurfer himself.
 In addition to the local rivers and streams, Hood River County has 31 lakes for fishing.
 Second-home owners include upper-level professionals, downshifters in their 50s and people who can work from anywhere. Recent buyers are coming from Portland, Seattle and San Francisco.
 On summer weekends, people hit the water or head to the mountains during the day. Mount Hood offers skiing and snowboarding throughout the summer, so ambitious folks can schuss in the morning and sail in the afternoon. By 6 p.m., people are back in town, many of them recharging their batteries in Hood River's thriving beer and food scene. Some of the best pints of local brews are found at Full Sail Brewing or Double Mountain. Popular dining spots include Celilo, which features locally raised meats and produce (grilled leg of lamb and sausage was recently $23) and Brian's Pourhouse (buffalo osso bucco, $25).
 Accommodations include the Best Western Hood River lnn (1108 East Marina Way; 800-828-7873; www.hoodriverinn.com), which offers doubles from $105, depending on the season and whether they have a river view.
 Pros
 Hood River is an energetic town surrounded by abundant recreation opportunities. As one resident put it, there are plentiful elements to lead a well-stocked life.
 Cons
 Winters are generally Pacific Northwest dreary. Employment tends to be seasonal, so it helps to be self-employed or a telecommuter if relocation is a goal.
 The Real Estate Market
 The Hood River area has not been immune to the housing downturn. The average sales price at the end of February, $249,000, was 15 percent less than a year earlier, according to the local multiple listing service.
 Condominiums in Hood River sell for about $140,000 to $250,000; units with sweeping river views cost as much as $380,000. Houses generally go for $350,000 to $1 million. ''For $1 million, you need a full package of river view and being able to walk to town,'' said Mr. Meyer, the Copper West Properties broker. ''A lot of people want 'walk to town' as one of the three top features.''
 Oregonians don't pay a sales tax but do pay personal income taxes. Across the river, Washington has a sales tax but no income taxes. ''It's probably a bit of an advantage going to the Washington side,'' said Tom Jenkins, an agent with Don Nunamaker Realtors in Hood River. ''But if you buy everything on the Washington side, the sales tax would catch up with you.'' Mr. Jenkins said the lack of income taxes in Washington could benefit those who came to the area to retire. 
 Hood River County property taxes are $16 per $1,000 assessed value. State laws limit property tax increases to 3 percent a year. ''I think over time that will hurt our infrastructure,'' Mr. Meyer said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DOWNTOWN: Oak Street in Hood River, which is flanked by mountains and oriented toward outdoor sports like windsurfing and kiteboarding.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Hood River, Oregon, and surrounding areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SURFING (90%); SKIING (73%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); CHILDREN (72%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (71%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (71%); GREEN BUILDING (70%); ICE CREAM (69%); CYCLING (51%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



380 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: After Losing to UConn, a Louisville All-American Takes a Top Prize

BYLINE: By BRIAN HEYMAN

DATELINE: SECAUCUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
Fresh from carrying Louisville to its first N.C.A.A. women's basketball championship game, Angel McCoughtry sat in the crowd at the N.B.A. Entertainment television studio on Thursday and listened as the W.N.B.A. president, Donna Orender, announced the name of her new dream team.
 ''With the first pick in the 2009 W.N.B.A. draft, the Atlanta Dream select Angel McCoughtry,'' Orender said. 
 The 6-foot-1 McCoughtry, a three-time all-American forward from Baltimore, finished second best to Connecticut in Tuesday's championship round. But two days later, she was reveling in first prize. She will head to a second-year team that has been reloading after a 4-30 season.
 ''I feel on top of the world right now,'' said McCoughtry, who averaged 23.1 points this season and is Louisville's career scoring leader, among women and men.
 ''I'm on cloud nine,'' she said. ''After I get off cloud nine, it's time to work and get things started for Atlanta.
 ''I've been in a transition where Louisville wasn't that great at first and we turned the program around. I think Atlanta has a lot of great players to definitely turn this program around.''
 Fifteen seniors were here for the three-round draft, waiting anxiously for their names to be called in anticipation of the W.N.B.A.'s 13th season, now with 13 teams because the Houston Comets disbanded.
 After Maryland teammates went with the second and third picks -- the 6-1 guard/forward Marissa Coleman to Washington and the 5-7 point guard Kristi Toliver to Chicago -- the leader of Connecticut's championship team, Renee Montgomery, a 5-7 point guard, came into play. She went fourth to Minnesota.
 ''It really sinks in,'' Montgomery said. ''Now I really do have a new team. I really am not on UConn's team anymore. I'll always be a Husky, though.''
 She added: ''I know the W.N.B.A. is looking for a more fast-paced-style game, so I hope that's where I can be a help.''
 Phoenix selected Auburn's DeWanna Bonner, a 6-4 guard, with the fifth pick, and Arizona State's Briann January, a 5-8 guard, went next to Indiana.
 Courtney Paris, Oklahoma's four-time all-American center, was taken seventh, and she could not have been more thrilled.
 Sacramento selected Paris, who is from Piedmont, Calif., about an hour and a half from the state capital. Her father, the former San Francisco 49ers offensive lineman Bubba Paris, lives in Discovery Bay, about 45 minutes away.
 ''He reached over to me and said, 'I get to come to every one of your games,' '' said Courtney, whose twin sister and Oklahoma teammate, Ashley, went in the second round to Los Angeles. ''So I'm excited. He's really proud.''
 There has been that question of $64,000 hanging over Courtney Paris, the only N.C.A.A. player, male or female, to post 2,500 points and 2,000 rebounds. She had vowed to repay her scholarship if Oklahoma failed to win the championship. Louisville knocked out the Sooners in a national semifinal.
 The fifth through eighth picks make base salaries of $41,574, $42,406 and $46,646 in their first three seasons, but Paris said she still planned to make good on her promise, only in a different way.
 ''I keep my commitments,'' she said. ''Right now, we're working on something, trying to collaborate to make up some type of fund that kicks back into the community. I feel that's something I would have wanted to do anyway. We have a great university, and our athletic director wouldn't accept the money back. But I feel like there is something I can do to help the state of Oklahoma.''
 With the eighth pick, the Liberty went to New Jersey for help, taking Rutgers's Kia Vaughn, a 6-4 center from the Bronx. Vaughn said she was happy to be joining her former Rutgers teammate Essence Carson on her hometown team. Vaughn called Carson ''my big sister.''
 Rutgers Coach C. Vivian Stringer said Vaughn ''is going to be a great pro.''
 The W.N.B.A. made the economic decision to streamline the rosters this season, from 13 to 11. So the second- and third-round choices will have a tougher time sticking.
 ''Undoubtedly,'' Orender said. ''The league's play has exponentially grown, the excitement, the athleticism, the skill level. The young players will push the old players, but there are a limited amount of spots.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louisville's Angel McCoughtry, right, who was chosen No. 1 by Atlanta, with Donna Orender, the W.N.B.A.'s president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL KOSTROUN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



381 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Demonstrate Against Georgian President

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Olesya Vartanyan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of protesters marched through the streets of this capital city on Thursday bearing signs and chanting slogans against President Mikheil Saakashvili, who took office five years ago with promises of a progressive, pro-Western government.
 The protesters gathered in front of the Parliament building to demand the resignation of the president, whom opposition speakers denounced as a tyrant who had mishandled the war with Russia. While the atmosphere was tense, the day's events unfolded without violence.
 Opposition leaders said they would not halt the protest until Mr. Saakashvili stepped down. ''We are here because there is no other way to do this,'' said Levan Gachechiladze. ''We need to stay here until the end. He must go!'' 
 Irakli Alasania, a former ambassador to the United Nations who broke with Mr. Saakashvili over the war, told the crowd that the president had spurned the values of the democratic movement that brought him to power. Mr. Alasania said Mr. Saakashvili exerted authoritarian control over the media, the judiciary and other spheres of society.
 ''The whole world is watching us now,'' Mr. Alasania said. ''We are here to show our government and other countries that this is the only way to have real change.''
 The opposition said that more than 100,000 people attended the rally at its peak; the government put the figure at no more than 25,000. By evening, the numbers had dwindled, but organizers said they expected the people to return on Friday.
 The government under Mr. Saakashvili carried out a violent crackdown on a similar demonstration in November 2007, drawing extensive international criticism from, among others, the United States, the president's most prominent backer.
 Apparently chastened, the government is taking pains this time to avoid intervening in a peaceful protest, and there was a striking lack of law enforcement personnel on the streets on Thursday.
 Since Georgia received independence after the fall of the Soviet Union, politics here have been highly partisan and contentious, and Mr. Saakashvili's two predecessors did not finish their terms. Still, the opposition is fragmented among several parties, and polls have not identified widespread support for Mr. Saakashvili's resignation.
 April 9 is a holiday, the National Day of Unity, marking the anniversary of clashes between protesters and Soviet troops in Tbilisi in 1989 that left roughly 20 people dead. Mr. Saakashvili and some opposition leaders attended a ceremony earlier in the day.
 ''No matter how our positions and views may differ, we have one motherland. We need unity for the sake of this motherland,'' Mr. Saakashvili said.
 In interviews, protesters expressed disillusionment with Mr. Saakashvili. 
 Nino Tsitlidze, 53, an unemployed teacher, said the protest was the first that she had attended since the ones against the Communists before the Soviet breakup.
 ''I don't have a country anymore. Saakashvili took my Abkhazia and South Ossetia,'' Ms. Tsitlidze said, referring to the two separatist regions that were lost in the war with Russia in August. ''Georgians are proud people, and we cannot stand this humiliation. In any country, a leader who loses a war resigns. We need to make him understand that.''
 Alexander Iremadze, 34, a farmer who arrived at the protest with 20 people from a small town in the south, said he would stay until Mr. Saakashvili went. He said the government had broken its promise to help him obtain a new farm.
 ''We were not given land to do farming, and have nothing to survive on,'' he said. ''All the land they give out for rent is to people they know.
 ''We were the ones who brought Misha to power,'' he added, using the president's nickname. ''We should be the people who let him go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police officers in riot gear guarded the Parliament in Tiblisi, Georgia, during the protest on Thursday. No violence was reported.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (93%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



382 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Front of Los Angeles Times Has an NBC 'Article'

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
IN a move that raised questions about how far newspapers would go to please advertisers, The Los Angeles Times ran a front-page ad on Thursday that resembled a news column.
 The ad, for the new NBC show ''Southland,'' was written and designed to look like a news article, chronicling the ''Southland'' protagonist's patrol in Los Angeles. The promotion ran on the lower half of the paper's left column, with the headline, ''Southland's Rookie Hero.'' Forming an L, a horizontal ad for the show ran across the bottom of the page. The top of the column was labeled ''Advertisement,'' and included NBC's peacock logo.
 It is the first time the newspaper has run a mock news column on its front page as an ad, although the paper has been running front-page ads since 2007. 
 The newspaper business is in trouble -- the Tribune Company, which owns The Los Angeles Times, filed for bankruptcy in December, and newspapers including The Seattle Post-Intelligencer and The Rocky Mountain News have stopped printing in the last few months.
 Even against the backdrop of severe problems for the industry, the advertisement provoked debate about whether The Los Angeles Times had gone too far to attract advertising revenue.
 The idea for the imitation article came from The Los Angeles Times's advertising department, said Adam Stotsky, the president of entertainment marketing for NBC. 
 ''What was great about this ad unit is it gave us a quote-unquote 'editorial voice,' '' Mr. Stotsky said in an interview. ''The more relevant you can make your advertising, the more contextualized you can make your advertising, we find the more engagement can be created, and ultimately the more effective your marketing can be,'' he said.
 There was no intent to fool readers, Mr. Stotsky said. He said the ad used fonts that differed from the standard Los Angeles Times fonts, and it included the NBC logo. NBC staff wrote the ad, and The Times's business staff approved it; the editorial side was not involved, he said. ''I think most consumers will recognize that this is an ad,'' Mr. Stotsky said.
 Whether readers knew this was advertising or not was beside the point, said Geneva Overholser, director of the school of journalism at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication.
 ''Some people say readers are smart and they can tell the difference, but the fundamental concept here is deeply offensive,'' she said. ''Readers don't want to be fooled, they don't like the notion that someone is attempting to deceive them.''
 ''Newspapers are facing a really remarkable economic challenge, but to me, this is exactly the wrong way to go about surviving,'' Ms. Overholser said. ''This breaks perhaps the most important bond that newspapers have with their readers, which, to me, is a bond of trust.''
 The editor of The Los Angeles Times, Russ Stanton, called a meeting with employees Thursday afternoon and asked the publisher, Eddy W. Hartenstein, to discuss the ad with the editorial staff. About 100 employees had signed a petition protesting the ad on Thursday, according to Reuters. 
 In a statement, The Times said that the ad was one of several ''innovative approaches'' it was trying. ''That includes creating unique marketing opportunities for our advertising partners, and today's NBC 'Southland' ad was designed to stretch traditional boundaries,'' the statement said.
 The stretching of boundaries is occurring throughout the newspaper business. The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and The New York Times are also running front-page ads (some other large papers, including The Washington Post, have so far held off on them).
 The American Society of News Editors has no guidelines on where ads should run and how they should be marked. 
 That has led to original advertising units, including L-shaped ads like the ''Southland'' ad. Newspapers have also been selling ads in the shape of an upside-down T, ads that form a U across the sides and bottom of a page, ''fireplace'' ads -- in which the text wraps around a rectangle of advertising at the bottom of the page, resembling a fireplace -- and ''checkerboard'' ads, covering opposite corners of a page.
 Some newspapers are offering the ''skyboxes'' or ''ears'' of a paper, the spaces to the left and right of a paper's name on the front page.
 Newspapers ''are doing all kinds of things to say, we want to be more valuable to the advertisers,'' said Randy Grunow of Mediaspace Solutions, which buys newspaper ads.
 Occasionally, that means papers are selling the front page altogether.
 On Tuesday, the student paper of the University of California, Los Angeles ran a Haagen-Dazs ad as its front page.
 The editorial board of the paper, The Daily Bruin, apologized for the ad on the day it ran, in an April 7 editorial, but said the budget demanded it.
 Papers are facing challenges, and accepting ads in untraditional spots makes some sense, said Dan Kennedy, an assistant professor of journalism at Northeastern University and a media critic for the British newspaper The Guardian.
 ''When you don't need to do this, then maybe you shouldn't, but given that we're in pretty desperate times,'' he said, ''far better that The L.A. Times do this than say no to the revenue and end up having to cut back on their actual news coverage. 
 ''If we're going to have front-page ads, I don't really see that this one is worse than the others, except it's worse in one way: it's ugly,'' he said. ''It looks like the kind of thing that says 'Sell Us Your Gold' inside the paper or something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The front page of The Los Angeles Times on Thursday featured an L-shaped NBC ad, part of which looked like a news article. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



383 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: In March Retailing Report, Bright Spots Are Few

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Retailers posted another month of disappointing sales in March, signaling that consumers are not yet ready to come out of hiding. 
 Only a handful of chains on Thursday reported an increase in sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health. Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer and a bellwether for the industry, had a 1.4 percent increase over March 2008, not including fuel. Other discount stores like TJX and Ross Stores, as well as some teenage apparel chains, also fared well. 
 But a majority of the nation's retailers continued to suffer sales declines. Abercrombie & Fitch was most notable, with a stunning 34 percent drop that analysts attributed to its strategy of not offering the same deep discounts as its competitors. Sales at other mall apparel chains and department stores remained weak. 
 For the last few months, retailers have taken all sorts of measures to ride out the bleak economy. They have cut costs, hoarded cash and reduced inventory by cutting orders and running sales and unprecedented promotions. 
 Now, they must wait.
 Retailing analysts said that some stores would propel sales with compelling merchandise and low prices, but that consumers would not spend again in any meaningful way until the stock market recovered, employment stabilized and credit markets opened up again. 
 ''The retail mouse is in the economic python and it's just going to take six months to get out,'' said Mike Moriarty, a partner at A. T. Kearney, a management consulting service. ''Retail is at the mercy of the economy.'' 
 In general, major chains reported that March sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, were worse than February. Sales for the overall industry fell 2.1 percent, according to the Goldman Sachs retail composite index. 
 The good news for March, analysts said, was that not every retailer was in free fall -- which was what appeared to be the case during the holiday shopping season. 
 But the likelihood of a recovery soon, analysts at Standard & Poor's ratings services said, is being reduced by an increase in the average duration of unemployment and in the number of people working part time. 
 ''We're not out of the woods by any stretch of the imagination,'' said Matthew F. Katz, a managing director in the retailing practice of AlixPartners, a reorganization business. ''We've seen a lot of mortgage reapplications and refinancing. And we've seen a slight blip in expenditures. However, if you listen to what folks are telling us, there's a new normal out here.'' 
 The ''new normal'' means that people are saving more and thinking carefully about how they spend. That has benefited the low-priced chains. 
 Customer traffic at Wal-Mart stores increased for a sixth consecutive month. Sales were driven by the chain's grocery, health and wellness and home categories. March was the second month in a row that Wal-Mart's home products -- which include bedding, bath, food storage, cookware, furniture and lighting -- sold well, an indication that consumers are spending more time at home, and a positive sign given that such sales are not essentials. 
 Sales at Wal-Mart's Sam's Club division, which caters to small businesses, climbed 6.2 percent, excluding fuel, thanks mainly to sales of food and consumables like paper towels and soap, as well as an extra selling day. They were closed one day in March last year for Easter. Pet supplies, office electronics and gardening items were also strong sellers. And Sam's Club stores got an unusual lift from smokers who went bulk shopping before an increase in the federal excise tax on tobacco on April 1. 
 But investors, who had expected Wal-Mart to do even better, sent company shares down 3.7 percent on Thursday, to $50.66, from $52.61. John Simley, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, noted that the company's March sales were ''within our 13-week guidance of 1 to 3 percent,'' referring to the company's sales estimate. 
 Most of Wal-Mart's competitors also fared well. Same-store sales at BJ's Wholesale Club increased 8.5 percent, excluding fuel sales. Sales at the discount apparel retailers TJX and Ross Stores were up 2 percent and 3 percent, respectively. The exceptions were Costco, which had a 5 percent decrease, and Target, the discount chain that aims at more upscale customers, where sales fell 6.3 percent. 
 Some retailers' March sales results, including Wal-Mart's, were hurt because Easter -- which usually gives chains a sales boost -- is in April this year. That is one big reason industry professionals tend to judge retailers' spring performance by viewing March and April sales together. Still, several chains tried to ease the pain by offering promotions, including ''buy one, get one free.'' 
 Over all, department stores were once again among the weakest categories, with sales falling at Dillard's (down 19 percent), Bon-Ton (down 11.2 percent), Macy's (down 9.2 percent), J.C. Penney (down 7.2 percent), Kohl's (down 4.3 percent) and Stein Mart (down 1.4 percent). 
 Luxury chains were hurt more. Sales at Neiman Marcus, which includes Neiman Marcus stores and Bergdorf Goodman, were down 29.9 percent. Saks (down 23.6 percent) and Nordstrom (down 13.5 percent) fared poorly in March same-store sales, but their numbers were slightly better than in February. 
 Specialty retailers in malls are still struggling, too, including Zumiez (down 17.9 percent), American Eagle Outfitters (down 16 percent), Wet Seal (down 11.4 percent), American Apparel (down 11 percent), Gap (down 8 percent) and Limited Brands (down 9 percent). Sales declined 2 percent at the Children's Place. 
 The few exceptions to the apparel sales malaise continue to be niche mall chains that cater to the whims of teenagers and the pocketbooks of parents: Buckle (up 14.7 percent), Hot Topic (up 7.1 percent) and Aeropostale (up 3 percent).
 The International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group, said it expected same-store sales for April to be flat to up 1 percent, compared with last April. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Costco shoppers in Mountain View, Calif. Costco sales fell 5 percent in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA / ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 An Abercrombie & Fitch store in Beachwood, Ohio. Store sales fell 34 percent, analysts said because of a lack of deep discounts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETT / ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) CHART: Retail Sales in March (Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (79%); SALES PROMOTIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); ROSS STORES INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); ROST (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



384 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; HIGH & LOW FORESTVILLE, CALIF.; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: A Bohemian Heritage

BYLINE: By BETHANY LYTTLE

 BODY:
ARTISTS, writers and members of the '60s counterculture have long been a part of the fabric of Forestville, Calif., one of several unincorporated hamlets along the Russian River area in central Sonoma County. 
 With a population of less than 2,500, even the wealthiest residents here march to the beat of a bohemian drummer. Among the villages that line the river, the town stands out.
 ''Forestville is the one with lots of wind chimes, tie-dye and clothing made from hemp,'' said Randy Mack, owner of Domaine Real Estate. 
 In the hamlet, many homes are not visible from the road, and some, perched on stilts, are nestled into the redwood- and fir-covered hills that slope to the river. Birdsong, the wind and river rush are often the only sounds. And residents often spend days kayaking and canoeing, fishing, bird watching and hiking -- with occasional visits to nearby wineries.
 Many second-home owners grew up coming to the area and now fondly refer to themselves as ''river rats.'' ''They remembered what it was like in the 1950s and '60s when they were little and they wanted to come back, so they bought here,'' said Susan Packer, a 32-year veteran who is a Realtor associate at Frank Howard Allen Realtors in Guerneville. 
 It was during the 1970s that the Russian River area experienced a slowdown in its second-home market. But then, the area's low prices caught the interest of developers of gay resorts. These offset the decline and by the 1980s, the Forestville area experienced a resurgence. Buyers come from the Bay Area, including San Francisco, which is about 60 miles south.
 Pricing here is driven less by square footage than by a property's acreage and proximity to the river. There are a significant number of very small uninsulated cabins available in the $200,000 to $300,000 range, but these often need a lot of work. More characteristic of the low end are houses in the mid-$300,000's. These houses tend to be near but not on the river, and small. At the high end, prices from $1 million to $2 million are typical, but rare properties with significant acreage occasionally yield higher prices, too. 
 Sales have slowed in some areas, but conditions for buyers are good, real estate agents said. 
 ''It's been a long time since interest rates have been this low,'' Ms. Packer said. ''My parents had a rate like this when I was in third grade,'' she said. ''I'm 60 now.'' 
 High
 This 7,000-square-foot house is on 20 acres, of which about one-quarter is devoted to pinot noir grapes, under contract to a winery. Built in 2004, the stone and stucco house has an open layout and many floor-to-ceiling windows. Glass doors lead to a wraparound deck and a pool from which there are vineyard and mountain views. The passive-solar house has two wings: one with the master suite, one with a guest suite. There is a large kitchen with a butler's pantry, hardwood floors and four and a half bathrooms. Taxes: $33,102. Agents: Cindy Brandon and Kaaren Atkin, Artisan -- Sotheby's International Realty, (707) 284-1111, ext. 220; www.finewinecountryproperty.com.
 Low
 Built in 1954 as a 600-square-foot cabin, this two-story house has been remodeled and expanded. Now 1,300 square feet, the house is on a hillside, elevated on stilts and surrounded by forest. The house is in Summerhome Park, a private community with its own river access and a beach. It has large windows on every side, and there are double French doors that lead to one of two large decks. The interior has knotty pine walls and ceilings; the floors are wood parquet and linoleum. Both Forestville and Guerneville are about 10 minutes away by car. Taxes: $4,737. Broker: Mark Stevens, Domaine Real Estate, (707) 824-0200; www.esonomahomes.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: High: HOW MUCH: $3,695,000
WHAT: 4-bedroom house
WHERE: Ritchurst Place
Low: HOW MUCH: $379,000
WHAT: 3-bedroom house
 WHERE: Redwood Road 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (72%); WINERIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BIRDS (69%); BIRDING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



385 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 
 'AMERICAN SWING' (No rating, 1:21) The life and death of the notorious Manhattan swingers' club Plato's Retreat and of its mastermind, Larry Levenson, are examined with more nostalgia than rancor.20090409
 (Stephen Holden)
 'BART GOT A ROOM'(PG-13, 1:20) Angling for John Hughes by way of Woody Allen, Brian Hecker sweats to wring freshness from his partly autobiographical tale of a trumpet-playing dweeb (Steven Kaplan) and his disastrous senior prom. But not even the lovingly rendered Sunshine State setting -- or five minutes with Jennifer Tilly -- can energize a screenplay more antiquated than the extras who pad its corners.(Jeannette Catsoulis)20090409 
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk.20090409
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC'(PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too.(Dargis)20090409
 'THE COUNTRY TEACHER' (No rating, 1:53, in Czech) A closeted gay teacher of natural sciences in Czechoslovakia leaves Prague to take a job at a school in a rural farming village. Both his subject and the rustic environment play into the movie's contemplation of the diversity of nature as it applies to human behavior, especially sexuality.(Holden)20090409
 'DUPLICITY' (PG-13, 2:05) Julia Roberts and Clive Owen in a lively caper from the writer-director Tony Gilroy. It's a spy movie wrapped in a sex comedy, or perhaps vice versa. As a bonus, Paul Giamatti and Tom Wilkinson play dueling chief executives, whose opening-title fisticuffs are worth the price of a ticket.20090409
 (A. O. Scott)
 'ENLIGHTEN UP!'(No rating, 1:22) At the instigation of a filmmaker eager to explore the ''transformative'' power of yoga, a skeptical novice devotes himself to an international crash course in this charming, good-humored documentary.(Nathan Lee)20090409
 'THE ESCAPIST'(No rating, 1:42) Set in a grim London institution (played by Kilmainham Jail in Ireland) and centering on an aging lifer (Brian Cox), Rupert Wyatt's minimalist drama draws energy from an urgent, discordant score and surreal imagery. Without straying far from formula or stock characters, the director shapes a standard prison-break drama into a metaphysical study of freedom and reparation.(Catsoulis)20090409
 'EVERLASTING MOMENTS' (No rating, 2:11, in Swedish) The story, about a working-class wife and mother in early-20th-century Sweden who finds a measure of fulfillment by mastering the art of photography, is a bit familiar and sentimental, but strong acting and an understated visual elegance from the director Jan Troell make this a better-than-average literary costume drama.(Scott)20090409
 'FAST & FURIOUS'(PG-13, 1:40) Fast cars, sluggish wit.(Lee)20090409
 'GIGANTIC'(R, 1:38) The mood of this cautiously surreal, absurdist comedy about the grown-up children of privilege living in New York City is predominantly glum.(Holden)20090409
 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screens.(Dargis)20090409
 'GOODBYE SOLO' (No rating, 1:31) Ramin Bahrani's third feature (after ''Man Push Cart'' and ''Chop Shop'') is haunting, humane and very nearly perfect. The simple story of a Winston-Salem cab driver's unlikely friendship with an older passenger becomes something like a philosophical fable without ever sacrificing its rough, lived-in realism.(Scott)20090409
 'THE GREAT BUCK HOWARD' (PG, 1:27) John Malkovich stars as the title character in this agreeable show business satire with a warm heart, inspired by the career of the Amazing Kreskin, the 1970s television mind reader who still pops up on the tube now and then.(Holden)20090409
 'GUEST OF CINDY SHERMAN' (No rating, 1:28) This breezy yet tender documentary chronicles the relationship between its director, the host of a 1990s public access show about the art world, and one of his subjects and lovers, the photographer Cindy Sherman.(Lee)20090409
 'THE HAUNTING IN CONNECTICUT' (PG-13, 1:32) Spinning another based-on-actual-events tale of a family (headed by Virginia Madsen and Martin Donovan) ejected from its home by angry spirits, Peter Cornwell's first feature counters its screeching score with genuinely grisly images. But stories like this need hush to work, and the result is a movie that gives you the creeps, the giggles and the groans in almost equal measure.(Catsoulis)20090409
 'HUNGER' (No rating, 1:36) The British artist Steve McQueen, making his debut as a film director, recreates events leading up the I.R.A. hunger strikes of the early 1980s in somber, meticulous detail. The result is a curiously calm study in bodily extremity and political extremism.(Scott)20090409
 'I LOVE YOU, MAN' (R, 1:45) Judd Apatow's name isn't in the credits, but his DNA is all over John Hamburg's fitfully funny bromance about a wuss (Paul Rudd) who mans up by befriending a guy's guy (Jason Segel).(Dargis)20090409
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire.(Dargis)20090409
 'RACE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN' (PG, 1:39) A passable kiddie-action movie, with Dwayne Johnson as a Las Vegas cab driver and ex-convict who becomes the unlikely protector of two blond alien children.(Scott)20090409
 'SHALL WE KISS?'(No rating, 1:42, in French) Dangerous liaisons with good intentions: the matchmaking games in this French romantic comedy may backfire, but nobody is seriously hurt. The players in this mouth-watering Gallic souffle are so attractive, well mannered and comfortably grounded in the bourgeois world that you needn't fear for their well-being, minor heartaches notwithstanding.(Holden)20090409
 'SIN NOMBRE' (R, 1:36, in Spanish) Two teenagers, one Honduran, one Mexican, travel together in a story about geographic and moral border crossings from the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga.(Dargis)20090409
 'THE SONG OF SPARROWS'(PG, 1:36, in Persian) In the Iranian director Majid Majidi's dogmatic spiritual fable, an impoverished farmer who lives in a rural village with his wife and three children loses his soul, only to regain it after a season in hell during which he succumbs to the temptations of the material world.20090409
 (Holden)
 'SUNSHINE CLEANING' (R, 1:32) Or better, ''Sundance Recycling,'' since every available indie cliche is thrown into this hapless comedy-drama. Not even the combined charms of Emily Blunt, Amy Adams and Alan Arkin can save it.(Scott)20090409
 'TOKYO!'(No rating, 1:52, in Japanese) A cramped metropolis of eccentrics living in a futuristic present: that is the image of the Japanese capital evoked in ''Tokyo!,'' a compendium of three surreal shorts whose relationship with one another might best be defined by the exclamation point in the title.(Holden)20090409
 'TOKYO SONATA' (PG-13, 1:59) A distinctly eccentric variant on the family melodrama from Kiyoshi Kurosawa, a genius of dread who brings more than a touch of horror to this story of a salaryman whose downsizing sets off a series of cataclysmic events.(Dargis)20090409
 'TULPAN'(No rating, 1:40, in Kazakh and Russian) A coming-of-age story set on a windblown steppe in Kazakhstan. Sheer poetry.(Scott)20090409
 '12 ROUNDS' (PG-13, 1:52) An extremely frantic movie in which nothing of interest happens.(Lee)20090409
 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama from James Gray, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rossellini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams.(Scott)20090409
 'VALENTINO: THE LAST EMPEROR' (No rating, 1:36, in English, Italian and French) Watching the portrait of the extravagant lifestyle of this Italian fashion designer is a little like gorging on chocolate and Champagne until that queasy moment arrives when you realize you've consumed far too much.(Holden)20090409
 'WATCHMEN' (R, 2:40) Who watches them? Lots of people, I guess. The real question is why.(Scott)20090409
 Film Series
 'DAISY MILLER' (Wednesday) Peter Bogdanovich was riding high in Hollywood (1974) when he cast his protegee Cybill Shepherd as Henry James's inadvertently tragic heroine: a headstrong young American abroad in late-19th-century Europe, where her flouting of convention earns her both the disapproval and unvoiced admiration of an effete young man (Barry Brown) who mistakenly believes himself her social and moral superior. Mr. Bogdanovich's bantering tone may sometimes owe more to Ernst Lubitsch than to James, but this is an honest attempt at doing James the hard way, working from external detail rather than reproducing James's internal monologue. The 6:50 p.m. screening will be followed by a discussion with two James scholars from Columbia University, Rita Charon and Maura Spiegel. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Dave Kehr)20090409
 THE OLD WEST: MYTH, CHARACTER, AND REINVENTION (Friday, Wednesday and Thursday) Presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Into the Sunset: Photography's Image of the American West,'' this continuing series looks at Hollywood's treatment -- or, more often, complete reinvention -- of historical figures from the western past. In the 1944 film ''Buffalo Bill'' (Friday), the director William A. Wellman offers a Technicolor outline of the career of William F. Cody (Joel McCrea), an Army scout who parlayed his real-life adventures into show-business success; on Wednesday and Thursday, Doris Day cuts an ambiguous figure as the cross-dressing heroine of David Butler's musical ''Calamity Jane'' (1953). Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)20090409
 PICTURES FROM LIFE'S MANY SIDES: THE FILMS OF JIM MCBRIDE (Friday through Monday) Impossible to pigeonhole, the filmmaker Jim McBride seems to have worked both sides of every cinematic fence in his long career. His 1967 ''David Holzman's Diary'' was at once one of the founding gestures of the new American independent cinema and a prescient critique of its emerging pretensions: a completely convincing exercise in cinema-verite that turned out to be a total fake. His 1971 ''Glen and Randa'' was supposed to be his entry into commercial filmmaking, but this grim, post-apocalyptic road movie was lost amid the crush of early '70s ''youth pictures.'' In 1983 he committed cinephile seppuku by daring to remake Jean-Luc Godard's ''Breathless'' as a soft-core sex film starring Richard Gere and Valerie Kaprisky, and somehow brought it off. All these and more will be shown this weekend at Anthology, and Mr. McBride himself will appear for a conversation with the director Jonathan Demme after Friday's 7:15 p.m. screening of ''David Holzman.'' Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Kehr)20090409

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); YOGA (72%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (72%); RURAL SCHOOLS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); WRITERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



386 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: My Generation: Hip at the Met

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
A trio of nine-foot-tall photo-based drawings -- full-length figures that appear frozen in awkward poses -- will be installed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Great Hall on April 17. Depicting bodies unnaturally twisted, as though they were caught unaware while dancing or sneezing or jumping, they are part of ''Men in Cities,'' a 1981 series by Robert Longo. And while the poses may seem spontaneous, Mr. Longo actually manipulated his subjects by hurling tennis balls at them. 
 A tease of sorts, the drawings are meant to entice visitors to ''The Pictures Generation, 1974-1984,'' a sprawling exhibition opening on April 21. 
 Taking its name from the 1977 landmark show ''Pictures,'' held at Artists Space, an early alternative space in New York, it features artists who purposely departed from the prevailing trends of Minimalism or Conceptualism, using recognizable images that reflected postwar consumer culture. 
 These artists -- besides Mr. Longo, they include Sherrie Levine, Richard Prince, Cindy Sherman, David Salle, Louise Lawler and Matt Mullican -- became known as the Pictures Generation. And now, three decades later, they are figures of inspiration to many younger artists. 
 The show's installation is hipper than most at the Met. One of the museum's first truly multimedia shows, it will include everything from photography and painting to sound works, installations, film and video. 
 Douglas Eklund, the associate curator in the Met's photography department who organized the show, said he got the idea for the exhibition when he started collecting the photographs by this generation. ''These artists really opened photography to contemporary art,'' he said. When he began digging deeper, Mr. Eklund said, he discovered there was a far bigger story to tell. 
 The show will start with the early work of John Baldessari's students from his days at the California Institute of the Arts. Among them was his former teaching assistant, Jack Goldstein, who in 1975 made a film by copying footage of the roaring lion from the opening credits of MGM movies, isolating it against a red background and repeating the roar for more than three minutes -- a comment on what the word ''original'' really means. It will be one of nine films by Mr. Goldstein in the show. (He died in 2003.) 
 Music was also important to this group, and the exhibition will feature performances, like one on April 24 of ''Guitar Trio,'' a 1977 composition by the punk-rock-influenced composer Rhys Chatham. Noting the versatility of these artists, Mr. Eklund said that ''some of them were in bands themselves.'' That would include Mr. Prince and Mr. Longo's outfit, Menthol Wars.
 ARTISTIC PLAYGROUND
 Across the Atlantic, the Tate Modern is also paying homage to the 1970s. Beginning on May 22, ''Bodyspacemotionthings,'' an installation by the American artist Robert Morris, will be reconstructed in the museum's cavernous Turbine Hall. 
 Originally installed in 1971 in the Duveen Galleries of what is now Tate Britain, the work is an interactive environment with slides, tunnels, climbing walls, geometric objects and sculptures. When 2,500 people flooded the Tate, there was pandemonium, according to the British press, and officials shut down the installation after just four days. People reported getting splinters in their rear ends from sliding on rough plywood; others experienced falls and scrapes. At the time, Michael Compton, the exhibition's curator, said the public had gone ''berserk on giant seesaws.''
 More than three decades later, museum officials are confident that they will have things under control. Catherine Wood, a curator of contemporary art and performance at the Tate, said she had long been fascinated by the work and discovered it in the archives. ''We've experimented with Turbine Hall in so many ways, I thought it would be interesting and brave to see how this works now, especially because it has such resonance with so many contemporary artists,'' she said. 
 Fortunately Mr. Morris was not opposed to updating the work with some contemporary materials. Aluminum has replaced some of the old plywood supports. All the wood surfaces that were left rough in 1971 have been treated. And special mats will be installed around the work. 
 ''We have a team that is trained for this kind of thing, which in 1971 didn't exist,'' Ms. Wood said. 
 WHISTLER AT THE FRICK
 Like curators at the Tate Modern and elsewhere, officials at the Frick Collection have been shopping in their storage spaces to come up with inexpensive yet fresh exhibition ideas. The result is ''Portraits, Pastels, Prints: Whistler in the Frick Collection.'' 
 The show, which will run from June 2 through Aug. 23, is as much a reflection of curatorial creativity as it is of the sagging economy. Permanent-collection exhibitions are far cheaper to produce than lavish loan shows. This exhibition also solves a storage problem: what to do with James Abbott McNeill Whistler's four full-length portraits in the East Gallery -- where they have traditionally hung -- while that space is being refurbished. 
 The Frick has mounted several shows based on the Whistlers before, but those exhibitions had specific themes. In 1995 the Frick organized ''Whistler and Montesquiou: The Butterfly and the Bat,'' with paintings, drawings, sculptures, photographs and ephemera surrounding Count Robert de Montesquiou-Fezensac, the French aristocrat, art critic and poet, whose Whistler portrait belongs to the Frick. And in 2003 it mounted ''Whistler, Women and Fashion.'' (Both were large loan exhibitions.) 
 ''This will be the first time in 20 years that visitors will be able to see the portraits alongside a seascape, pastels and etchings,'' said Susan Galassi, the Frick's senior curator, who has organized the show with the curatorial assistants Joanna Sheers and Caitlin Henningsen. Whistler and Henry Clay Frick, the Pittsburgh coal and steel industrialist who made provisions for his Fifth Avenue mansion to become a study center for art, were contemporaries. Ms. Galassi said that she believed the two men never met and that ''although Whistler was 15 years older, his career was actively unfolding at the same time Frick was collecting.'' 
 Despite his reputation for buying canvases by Holbein and Vermeer, El Greco and Gainsborough, Frick collected more works by Whistler than by any other artist. ''He is one of the most modern artists in the collection,'' Ms. Galassi said. 
 On view in ''Portraits, Pastels, Prints'' will be 12 etchings that Whistler created in Venice in 1879 and '80 as a commission from the Fine Arts Society, a London gallery. In what is known as the ''First Venice Set,'' Whistler concentrated on the local color of Venice rather than on popular tourist spots. The show will also feature many of Whistler's pastels from that trip, as well as ''Symphony in Grey and Green: The Ocean,'' an 1866 seascape that Frick bought in 1914 along with two of the collection's four portraits. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The Doorways'' (1880), from Whistler's ''First Venice Set,'' on view in ''Portraits, Pastels, Prints'' at the Frick Collection.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRICK COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%); POP & ROCK (63%); MUSIC (63%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



387 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: CANADA: UNEMPLOYMENT AT 8%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Canada lost 61,300 jobs in March as the unemployment rate jumped to the highest level in seven years. The figure was worse than the 55,000 job losses economists expected and brought Canada's official unemployment rate to 8 percent. Prime Minister Stephen Harper said the recession in the United States was dragging Canada down. Canada and the United States share the largest trading relationship in the world. More than 70 percent of Canada's exports go to the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



388 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 495 words

 BODY:
IDENTIFYING A BOTTOM The major markets closed higher, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 246 points. The sudden turnaround has investors wondering if the markets have bottomed out or if larger problems are being ignored. 
 RETAIL SALES POOR Sales for the retail industry fell 2.1 percent in March and were weak at mall apparel chains and department stores. Among the small group of retailers posting an increase in sales was the nation's largest, Wal-Mart Stores, but investors were still disappointed in its results. [B1.] 
 ACTING AS THEIR OWN LAWYERS As the economy struggles, more Americans are representing themselves in court to avoid lawyers' fees. But judges say the mistakes of these legal novices make it more likely they will fare poorly, no matter the merit of their cases. [B1.] 
 BOYCOTT BY BOLLYWOOD A dispute between film producers and theater owners in India has brought the releases of Hindi-language movies virtually to a halt. Producers and distributors want to receive a guaranteed percentage of revenue instead of negotiating case by case. [B1.] 
 TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS Imports fell 5 percent as American businesses cut spending on foreign-made machinery and consumer demand stayed low. The growth in exports brought the trade deficit to its lowest level in nine years. [B4.] 
 JAPAN'S RECORD STIMULUS PLAN Japan announced a $154 billion stimulus package to try to stem the recession. Its strategy includes investments in green technology like solar energy and electric cars. [B6.] 
 BARCLAYS TO SELL ISHARES The British bank Barclays sought to bolster its capital by striking a deal to sell iShares, its exchange-traded funds business, to a private equity firm for $4.4 billion. [B6.] 
 MORE GERMAN AID FOR LENDER The German government said it planned to buy all of the outstanding shares of Hypo Real Estate Holding, a mortgage lender, another step toward nationalizing it. [B6.] 
 BRITAIN KEEPS RATE STEADY The British central bank left its main interest rate at 0.5 percent and said it would complete a $110 billion plan to buy bank assets. [B6.] 
 REBUTTALS AT YELP Yelp, the Web site that lets users post reviews of businesses, has changed its policy and will allow small-business owners to publicly respond to users' online opinions. [B8.] 
 SLOWDOWN FOR U.S. FARMERS Just last year, United States farm exports seemed poised for growth. But with the price of dairy products falling and the dollar strengthening, among other factors, the sector is expected to contract this year. [B1.] 
 LOSS FOR CANWEST The broadcaster and Canadian newspaper publisher Canwest Global Communications reported a loss of $1.16 billion. It has been unable to reach a debt settlement, which led to speculation that it might seek bankruptcy protection. [B8.] 
 ONLINE MUSIC HUB YouTube and the Universal Music Group are working together on a Web site where videos of the music company's artists and other content will be available. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FILM (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (88%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); LAWYERS (75%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); RECORD REVENUES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); NATIONALIZATION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); INTERNET AUDIO (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: HYPO REAL ESTATE HOLDING AG (65%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



389 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Deals Amid a Downturn

BYLINE: By STEVE BAILEY

 BODY:
PEOPLE like Seema and Ken Schappelle give real estate agents along the Jersey Shore reason to hope. They closed Feb. 27 on a small house in Cape May, a four-hour trip from their home in Potomac, Md., a Washington suburb.
 ''We started looking in 2005,'' Ms. Schappelle said. ''We stayed on the sidelines watching the crazy market and taking time to do our research.'' 
 Ms. Schappelle said it was the right time for them to jump into the market. ''Interest rates are low, prices are low, and we were ready to make a move,'' she said. ''Prices may go down more, but interest rates could go up.'' 
 It helps that the Schappelles ''have relatively stable jobs,'' she said. She is an environmental protection specialist in Washington, and her husband works in marketing and communications for Johns Hopkins University. 
 She said the house that they bought had been on the market for a long time and that the seller had dropped the price to $485,000 from $525,000 before they saw it. Ms. Schappelle said that she and her husband got the seller to go even lower, to $435,000. 
 The house, which is just under 1,000 square feet and has three bedrooms and one and a half bathrooms, is ''something of a fixer-upper,'' she said, but it comes with the promise of idyllic summers for their two daughters, ages 1 and 4. It is four blocks from the beach and within easy walking distance of restaurants and shopping.
 The Jersey Shore experience that lies ahead for the Schappelles has long made the area a favorite summer destination for millions, but the shore's many attractions have not given it immunity from the real estate slump that is affecting most of the nation. This year, some Jersey Shore brokers are saying the market is dead, but others are optimistic that 2009 will be better than 2008, primarily because dropping prices may attract buyers like the Schappelles. 
 People who are looking to rent their bit of the Jersey Shore typically wait close to the season's start. This season they are finding more properties to choose from and some owners who are willing to negotiate, though oceanfront and other especially desirable properties are holding their prices. Kim Evans, an agent with Van Sciver Realtors, an Ocean County firm with offices from Point Pleasant Beach south to Normandy Beach, said she had seen a trend toward shorter stays, ''more two-weeks and weeks, not so many all-summer.'' 
 Indeed, 2009 may be a good season for the rental market. Dee Lanzalotti, owner of Jersey Cape Realty in Cape May, said that ''in today's economy'' 85 percent of the properties that pass through her agency will be rented out at least part of the season and that owners can look forward to strong bookings. ''We have one beachfront house in the East End of Cape May that's fully booked this summer at $12,000 a week,'' she said. In 2007, it went for $10,500 a week. 
 Van Sciver, which handles more than 400 rental properties, said that about a third of its available weeks were booked by the end of March. ''We're busier rental-wise now than we were last year,'' Ms. Evans said, but if a lot of properties are not rented by the end of April, ''it could become a renter's market.''
 People who want to buy are finding that ''it's a buyer's market for sure,'' Ms. Lanzalotti said, but how long it will last is uncertain. ''I'm telling people not to wait much longer,'' she said. ''If you've had your eye on something for a while and want to make a lowball offer, do it now.'' She said that buyers from northern New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York, Washington and Baltimore are again looking for vacation and investment properties, many drawn by prices that are about 20 percent lower than they were in 2006. ''We're seeing an increase in buyer activity since the first of the year,'' she said. 
 Allan Dechert, a broker with Ferguson Dechert Real Estate in Avalon, N.J., and the immediate past chairman of the National Association of Realtors committee on resorts and second homes, is also upbeat. ''So far this year,'' he said, ''we're seeing more people coming through and more properties under contract.'' He said that ''on the islands, 95 or 98 percent of sales are to second-home owners or to investors who plan to rent out the property.'' Avalon is on Seven Mile Island, about 20 miles north of Cape May. He added that in his office the average sale price last year was $1.2 million, and that about a quarter of sales are for cash. 
 Sales handled by his office in 2008 were down 50 percent from 2005: 225 sales in 2005, and 110 in 2008. Despite an increase in activity since the first of the year, he said, many sales are hindered by tougher mortgage guidelines. ''Lenders are asking more questions,'' he said, ''and they want to see assets verified.'' 
 Mr. Dechert said that prices for houses not on the beach were down about 20 percent from the peak, which he said was 2005 and early 2006. ''For beachfront and other prime locations, the drops are less severe,'' he added, with those values down 10 to 15 percent. Three of his current listings are ''underwater,'' he said, with the would-be sellers' mortgage debts exceeding their properties' market values. ''These are people who haven't owned their properties very long -- not over two years,'' he said. ''People who bought longer ago are still in pretty good shape.'' 
 Joe Mancini, owner of Mancini Realty on Long Beach Island, however, does not see the slump ending, and said that 2009 did not get off to a good start. ''We always have a January-February upsurge, but this year it's been very small,'' he said. ''Our sales are usually driven by bonuses on Wall Street, and this year they haven't amounted to much.'' (Long Beach Island is a two-hour drive south of New York City.) 
 Although sales are slow -- 2008 sales amounted to about 60 percent of the number of sales in 2006, Mr. Mancini said -- the Long Beach Island market is relatively calm. ''I have seen no foreclosures here,'' he said, ''and no distress sales.'' He said that many vacation-home owners there paid cash for their homes, so they have no mortgages and are under no pressure to sell. As a result, he said, values for oceanfront properties have not dropped, though properties without water views are down about 15 percent from 2007.
 One example of what's happening on Long Beach Island is a three-story house on 33rd Street in Brant Beach that went under contract the last weekend in March. It was completed in 2008 by Joe Mancini's other company, Mancini Custom Homes. Only two other houses are between it and the beach, it's near a marina, and it has bay and ocean views from the top floor, which has the kitchen and living areas. Its amenities include two master suites, an elevator, five decks and a granite and stainless-steel kitchen. The house, which brought in $70,000 in rental income in 2008, was professionally decorated and was offered fully furnished, including dishes, pots, pans, towels and bed linens. It was originally listed at $1,799,000 and had been reduced 5.5 percent to $1,699,000. 
 Closer to New York, in Long Branch, a renovated three-bedroom, two-bath colonial, seven blocks from the beach, has been put on the market at $269,900. The seller, Ken Lehman, who bought the house in October 2008 and never moved into it, is preparing for an unexpected opportunity to live in France. The house has a white picket fence with an arched trellis over the entrance, tumbled travertine bathroom tiles, new fixtures, granite counters in the kitchen and stainless-steel appliances. Mr. Lehman,who works as a real estate agent a half-hour away in Middlesex County, said he looked at comparable houses on the market, saw what was selling, ''and tried to price it below everyone else.'' 
 Chuck and Maria Nucci have also put their Jersey Shore waterfront home on the market. Their house, in Osborne Island, 35 minutes north of Atlantic City by car and 20 minutes away by boat, is on a deep-water natural lagoon and has a floating dock and a boatlift that can handle a 25-foot boat. Mr. Nucci said that a seven-minute boat ride would take you from his dock to the Atlantic. ''It's a good place to live year-round,'' Mr. Nucci said, ''as well as a great vacation house.'' The Nuccis still live full time in the house, which has three bedrooms and two baths. They hope to move farther north in Ocean County. 
 Mr. Nucci is philosophical about the market and optimistic about their prospects. ''It's all relative,'' he said. ''If we sell at a low price, then we'll be buying at a low price.'' They are waiting until their current home is sold before buying a new house, and they think a sale is possible. ''There aren't too many on the market here,'' he said. They are asking $439,000 for the house, which they are advertising themselves on Craigslist. It is on a 65-by-100-foot lot and was renovated in 2002, the year they bought the house. 
 Others are not so blase. Mike Buckley, a real estate agent in Toms River, N.J., who works mainly in Seaside Park and Seaside Heights, sees the real estate market as ''dead.'' His last sale on the shore was in January in Seaside Heights, and he said that the sale was possible only because the seller was willing to go down $100,000 from the original asking price of $525,000. The property, two houses on one lot a block from the beach, had been on the market ''only six months,'' he said, while many other houses there have been on the market much longer. He said, though, that he has had more people looking as the weather has gotten warmer.
 Mr. Buckley, who owns four vacation rental properties on the shore, is much more optimistic about short-term rentals. ''We're about on par with last year,'' he said, ''and last year was a pretty good year.'' He speculates that some of the renters may be people who are choosing the Jersey Shore over more expensive summer vacations elsewhere.
 Searching on the Shore
 There are several ways to find a Jersey Shore summer rental. If you've selected a community, visits -- in person or online -- to two or three real estate agencies there should give you a nice selection of properties. Web sites like ShoreSummerRentals.com, ShoreVacations.com and JerseyCoastRentals.com make it easy to look at properties in different communities.
 Some owners advertise in local newspapers, so you might want to check the classified ads in The Asbury Park Press (www.appclassifieds.com) or The Press of Atlantic City (www.pressofatlanticcity.com) to be sure you aren't missing anything.
 Craigslist does have a ''vacation rentals'' section on its Jersey Shore page (jerseyshore.craigslist.org/vac).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOME: Lower prices and interest rates helped Ken Schappelle, below, seen with Kaya, 4, and Sarina, 16 months, buy a house in Cape May, above.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D5) MAP: Map details the Jersey Shore of New Jersey state (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); BEACHES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



390 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Amateur Hour in Court

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Elise Barros made her way to the front of the courtroom, convinced that the lawsuit against her was a mistake and would be quickly dismissed.
 ''I don't understand why I'm even here,'' said Ms. Barros, who was challenging a lender's claim that she owed it more than $7,000. She had repaid the loan, she told the judge in state court in March. ''I have proof -- documents.''
 What she did not have was a lawyer.
 So the judge sent her and the lender's lawyer into a mediation session, where it became clear that Ms. Barros actually did not have the documents, at least not the right ones. When the judge returned to her case later in the day, he ordered her to come back in three weeks, when the process would begin again. 
 Financially pressed people like Ms. Barros are representing themselves more and more in court, according to judges, lawyers and courthouse officials across the country, raising questions of how just the outcomes are and clogging courthouses already facing their own budget woes as clerks spend more time helping people unfamiliar with forms, filings and fees. 
 ''We all know that the numbers are through the roof,'' said James K. Borbely, a circuit court judge in Vermilion County, Ill. ''You just look at the courtrooms.'' 
 Judges complain that people miss deadlines, fail to bring the right documents or evidence and are simply unprepared for legal proceedings. Such mistakes make it more likely they will fare poorly -- no matter the merit of their cases.
 Reliable numbers for people representing themselves in noncriminal cases are hard to come by. Nationally there is no tracking system, and each state's court system follows its own rules. Many people hire a lawyer for one phase of a proceeding but then drop them later. (In criminal cases, of course, defendants have a right to an appointed lawyer.)
 Records of New York's family courts, in which a vast majority of people appear without a lawyer, are imperfect. But in the first six weeks of this year, nearly 95 percent of litigants in paternity and support cases did not have a lawyer, compared with 88 percent in all of 2008.
 Preliminary reports in California, where the total number of nonfamily civil suits for more than $25,000 declined by 8 percent last year, the portion of plaintiffs without a lawyer rose by 22 percent, while defendants representing themselves rose by 36 percent, according to Ronald M. George, the chief justice of California's Supreme Court. 
 Even though the number of disputes may be on the rise in the economic downturn as people clash with their landlords, creditors and others, Judge George perceives a reluctance to go to court because of the expense. 
 ''People aren't going to court as much anyway because they can't afford counsel,'' he said. ''But those that are proceeding are more likely to represent themselves.''
 The best evidence of the increase in self-representation could come from individual courthouses, where the shift is evident in growing lines at self-help centers like the one in Superior Court in San Francisco. Tracy Penny, who was filing for divorce, waited there on a bench in the hallway last week to get help with her paperwork.
 ''I didn't think I would need'' a lawyer, Ms. Penny said. But, ''money was a factor.''
 In Travis County, Tex., which includes Austin, the number of unrepresented people seeking help from lawyers on the courthouse staff jumped more than 10 percent in 2008. And in Superior Court in Atlanta, the number of people calling the court's family law information center for help with their cases rose by nearly 1,500 in 2008, to 22,590.
 Ms. Barros, who used to work at a call center before she was laid off in September, got some help from a San Francisco bar association program that offers advice on coping with debt collection. She did not try to hire a lawyer; too costly, she said, and not necessary.
 This is her second legal tangle with the lender, Household Finance; last year the company sued her over a different $7,000 loan and she ignored the complaint. The lender won a default judgment against her and took more than $10,000 (with interest and fees) out of her bank account. When Household sued her again this summer -- over the same loan, she thought -- she paid more attention. She said she forgot that she had taken a second $7,000 loan around the same time she took the first one. She collected proof that the money had been taken from her account and filed a handwritten response with the court. 
 Elizabeth A. MacDonald, Household's lawyer, said that the company filed the second lawsuit because Ms. Barros had taken out another loan by signing a subsequent check she received from the lender in the mail. Ms. Barros did not think that the money from that second check was ever deposited in her bank account and so she did not owe Household anything. But she did not have paperwork to show that. 
 After the unsuccessful mediation effort, Ms. Barros returned to court this week and was at last prepared to concede that she had received a second check. But in the meantime, she also had at last consulted with a lawyer and concluded that she would file for bankruptcy. 
 Even people with much higher incomes than Ms. Barros's are going it alone in court, according to courthouse staff. 
 James M. Mize, presiding judge in Superior Court in Sacramento, recalled receiving a request for a waiver of court fees from a man who earned $4,000 to $5,000 a month. ''He's caught in this subprime problem,'' Judge Mize said of the man, who claimed to be a victim of mortgage-related fraud. 
 ''He had a large mortgage that exploded'' and took up 90 percent of his income, Judge Mize said. The judge granted the fee waiver. ''He doesn't have the money to pay the filing fee, let alone hire a lawyer.''
 Courthouse workers also say that people are representing themselves in more complicated cases, involving divisions of complex assets, home foreclosures, houses worth less than a mortgage balance and combinations of these and other problems. Such cases in the past were more likely to involve a lawyer.
 Overseeing a proceeding where one or both sides lack lawyers puts a judge in a difficult position: The judge is supposed to be neutral but also has an interest in moving things along.
 ''If you see a person making a terrible mistake, you can't always jump in and save them,'' said Judge Borbely, the circuit court judge in Vermilion County, Ill. ''You cannot take the role of an advocate.''
 To ensure fair outcomes, courts must do more to help people navigate the courts, said John T. Broderick, the chief justice of New Hampshire. ''If you and I went to the hospital and they said, 'Do you have insurance?' and we don't, and they said, 'There are some textbooks over there with some really good illustrations,' '' Judge Broderick said, ''we would think that was immoral.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elise Barros said she could not afford a lawyer and defended herself in a case brought by a lender claiming she owed $7,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Estela Lopez, a staff lawyer at a self-help center in San Francisco, recorded the names of people awaiting legal advice last month.
 Elise Barros, left, spoke to a judge as she represented herself in court. With her is Elizabeth McDonald, the opposing counsel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGAL PATERNITY (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); FAMILY COURTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



391 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Making Banking Boring

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
Thirty-plus years ago, when I was a graduate student in economics, only the least ambitious of my classmates sought careers in the financial world. Even then, investment banks paid more than teaching or public service -- but not that much more, and anyway, everyone knew that banking was, well, boring.
 In the years that followed, of course, banking became anything but boring. Wheeling and dealing flourished, and pay scales in finance shot up, drawing in many of the nation's best and brightest young people (O.K., I'm not so sure about the ''best'' part). And we were assured that our supersized financial sector was the key to prosperity. 
 Instead, however, finance turned into the monster that ate the world economy. 
 Recently, the economists Thomas Philippon and Ariell Reshef circulated a paper that could have been titled ''The Rise and Fall of Boring Banking'' (it's actually titled ''Wages and Human Capital in the U.S. Financial Industry, 1909-2006''). They show that banking in America has gone through three eras over the past century. 
 Before 1930, banking was an exciting industry featuring a number of larger-than-life figures, who built giant financial empires (some of which later turned out to have been based on fraud). This highflying finance sector presided over a rapid increase in debt: Household debt as a percentage of G.D.P. almost doubled between World War I and 1929.
 During this first era of high finance, bankers were, on average, paid much more than their counterparts in other industries. But finance lost its glamour when the banking system collapsed during the Great Depression.
 The banking industry that emerged from that collapse was tightly regulated, far less colorful than it had been before the Depression, and far less lucrative for those who ran it. Banking became boring, partly because bankers were so conservative about lending: Household debt, which had fallen sharply as a percentage of G.D.P. during the Depression and World War II, stayed far below pre-1930s levels.
 Strange to say, this era of boring banking was also an era of spectacular economic progress for most Americans.
 After 1980, however, as the political winds shifted, many of the regulations on banks were lifted -- and banking became exciting again. Debt began rising rapidly, eventually reaching just about the same level relative to G.D.P. as in 1929. And the financial industry exploded in size. By the middle of this decade, it accounted for a third of corporate profits. 
 As these changes took place, finance again became a high-paying career -- spectacularly high-paying for those who built new financial empires. Indeed, soaring incomes in finance played a large role in creating America's second Gilded Age.
 Needless to say, the new superstars believed that they had earned their wealth. ''I think that the results our company had, which is where the great majority of my wealth came from, justified what I got,'' said Sanford Weill in 2007, a year after he had retired from Citigroup. And many economists agreed.
 Only a few people warned that this supercharged financial system might come to a bad end. Perhaps the most notable Cassandra was Raghuram Rajan of the University of Chicago, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, who argued at a 2005 conference that the rapid growth of finance had increased the risk of a ''catastrophic meltdown.'' But other participants in the conference, including Lawrence Summers, now the head of the National Economic Council, ridiculed Mr. Rajan's concerns.
 And the meltdown came. 
 Much of the seeming success of the financial industry has now been revealed as an illusion. (Citigroup stock has lost more than 90 percent of its value since Mr. Weill congratulated himself.) Worse yet, the collapse of the financial house of cards has wreaked havoc with the rest of the economy, with world trade and industrial output actually falling faster than they did in the Great Depression. And the catastrophe has led to calls for much more regulation of the financial industry. 
 But my sense is that policy makers are still thinking mainly about rearranging the boxes on the bank supervisory organization chart. They're not at all ready to do what needs to be done -- which is to make banking boring again. 
 Part of the problem is that boring banking would mean poorer bankers, and the financial industry still has a lot of friends in high places. But it's also a matter of ideology: Despite everything that has happened, most people in positions of power still associate fancy finance with economic progress.
 Can they be persuaded otherwise? Will we find the will to pursue serious financial reform? If not, the current crisis won't be a one-time event; it will be the shape of things to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BANKING LAW (72%); WORLD WAR II (64%); WORLD WAR I (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



392 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Narrows As Imports Fall Sharply

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Economists hunting for glimmers of hope that the worst may be over for the economy are seizing on new trade figures that show American exports unexpectedly grew in February, even as total trade flows continued to contract sharply.
 Added to the recent flurry of other small upticks in housing, retail sales, factory orders and most recently bank earnings, the export numbers released Thursday are raising hopes on Wall Street that the economy may soon be done shrinking and will start to grow again.
 The Commerce Department reported Thursday that imports fell sharply in February, by 5 percent, as businesses reduced their spending on foreign-made machinery, and consumer demand for imported televisions, toys and furniture remained low. 
 But in a reversal, American exports bounced back slightly after six months of declines. Exports grew by $2 billion as the country exported more automobiles, semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and chemicals.
 As imports plunged and exports stabilized, the United States trade deficit narrowed to its lowest in nine years. The trade deficit, which measures the gap between imports and exports, fell to $26 billion in February, from a revised $36 billion in January.
 Some economists said the rise in exports would have a positive effect on the country's first-quarter gross domestic product and represented another signal that the economy was beginning to bottom out after more than a year of swift declines.
 Recently, a flurry of small improvements or stabilization in the housing market and niches like retail sales and factory orders have raised Wall Street's hopes that the economic slump may be losing some momentum. A thin but growing sense of optimism has lifted stock indexes more than 20 percent in the last month.
 Skeptics warned that the economy is still declining, and they pointed out that exports had bounced off extremely low levels. The monthly increase in exports could be a mere blip that would be erased as the government revises its trade data in the months ahead, they warned. 
 ''I would take it as a possible positive sign, but with a great deal of skepticism,'' the chief economist at Wachovia, John E. Silvia, said. ''We're still in a global recessionary environment.''
 The overall volume of trade between the United States and the rest of the world fell for another month in February as the global downturn continued to spread.
 In all, the value of goods and services brought into the United States or exported to other countries fell to $279.5 billion in February, from $286 billion a month earlier. Demand for foreign-made products has withered as consumers cut spending, and plummeting oil prices have reduced the overall value of imported oil and petroleum products.
 The United States imported $8.2 billion less in goods and services in February. Imports fell to $152.7 billion, while exports climbed to $126.8 billion.
 ''Given what is happening in the rest of the world, it is highly unlikely that the February result represents the start of a turnaround in demand for U.S. goods abroad,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a note. 
 The trade deficit with China shrank sharply from January to February as imports from China fell 23.7 percent. American exports to China rose slightly.
 Experts said the sharp decline in imports reflected a troubling retrenchment by businesses. Companies are importing fewer capital goods and industrial supplies as they reduce investments and expectations for growth and try to reduce inventories.
 ''Executives are depressed about the state of the economy, recognize that they've got too much capacity and try to shut it down,'' said Brian Fabbri, chief North American economist at BNP Paribas. ''They don't want to bring in imports.''
 Also on Thursday, the Labor Department reported that first-time unemployment claims fellby 20,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 654,000. While the numbers offered some encouragement, weekly jobless numbers can be volatile, and economists have warned that unemployment would probably continue rising into next year.
 Continuing jobless claims rose to 5.8 million for the week that ended March 28, from 5.7 million a week earlier.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details line and bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (95%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (93%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); RECESSION (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



393 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: As Stocks Surge, Skeptics Worry About Economy

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
As one of the most dizzying bear market rallies in Wall Street history enters its second month, a nagging question faces investors: Is the stock market making real progress, or glossing over deeper problems in the economy that will start a new wave of losses?
 Stocks surged more than 3 percent Thursday as a major bank predicted record profits. The announcement by Wells Fargo, one of the nation's largest consumer banks, kindled hopes that the financial system, which dragged the larger economy toward the brink, was now poised to lead the way out. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 246 points and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose nearly 4 percent. The S.& P. 500 has now risen more than 25 percent since stocks bottomed out on March 9, one of its best runs since the Great Depression.
 Signs have been accumulating that the economy, while a long way from recovery, may be bottoming. Credit markets, frozen at the height of the financial crisis, have thawed as the government shores up the financial system. Some of the worst-hit housing markets are edging toward a turnaround as low interest rates reel in buyers. On Thursday, Lawrence H. Summers, one of President Obama's top economic advisers, declared the ''free fall'' in the economy was likely to end in the next few months.
 But as investors abandon caution to snap up cheap bank stocks and riskier instruments, like junk bonds, to profit from the market's earlier declines, skeptics are warning that the economy may face another leg down. Companies continue to shed jobs and consumers are hunkering down in anticipation of a halting recovery. Most of the nation's retailers on Thursday signaled that they expected to see a continued steep decline in sales as they waited for consumers to come out of hiding. 
 ''I think this is all setting us up for a new low,'' said Thomas J. Lee, the chief United States equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase, who predicted an 8 to 10 percent drop in stocks. ''It's not like I'm praying for it to happen, but it's pretty much expected.''
 Members of the Obama administration, once criticized for darkening the sense of economic gloom, have pointed out wisps of stability in corners of the economy as they try to build confidence in their agenda. But Mr. Summers also acknowledged that it was unclear how strong and rapid any turnaround would be. 
 One of the biggest worries facing economists is what would happen if unemployment rose beyond expectations and unleashed another wave of spending contractions and lower corporate profits.
 Even as major banks like Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Bank of America regain some profitability after devastating losses -- buoyed in part by government efforts to breathe new life into the housing market -- experts warn that companies reflecting other sectors of the economy will soon suffer a wave of sharper declines in earnings. 
 ''There's a migration of weakness,'' said Nicholas Bohnsack, sector strategist at Strategas Research Partners. ''What you're now seeing is the nonfinancial segment really start to tail off.''
 Company earnings for the first quarter of 2009 are expected to slump about 37 percent from last year, according to Thomson Reuters. Much of the decline will be borne by retailers, energy companies and businesses that make products like chemicals and building materials, analysts say.
 And even though banks may report better earnings this quarter, they are hardly in the clear. As the recession deepens, banks will continue to rack up big losses tied to credit cards, corporate loans, and residential and commercial real estate.
 Bigger questions remain about the depth of the banks' losses. Federal banking regulators are close to completing stress tests to get a handle on the industry's trouble, with early results suggesting that a handful of banks may still need capital. But much of the outcome depends on the degree to which the economy worsens. Also unclear is how changes to accounting rules that regulate how banks value assets may affect the appearance of their financial health. 
 For now, however, investors are setting aside those concerns and grasping good news with vigor. 
 Wells Fargo sent the stock market on a dizzying rally Thursday when it revealed that its mortgage applications surged to $190 billion in the first quarter, a sharp increase that would lead it to a record $3 billion profit for the period. Like other big banks, Wells appears to have benefited from a surge in mortgage refinancing because of ultralow borrowing rates engineered by the government and an exodus of competitors. Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, PNC Financial and others have had similarly strong performances and are expected to post improved profitability when earnings reports are issued next week. 
 Rates on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to a record low of 4.61 percent after moves by the Federal Reserve to slash target interest rates to nearly zero and ease lending by buying $1 trillion in longer-term Treasury notes and mortgage-backed securities.
 Mortgage applications have surged since December, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The value of loans securitized by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac increased to $144.9 billion last month, from $37.5 billion in January, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.
 Gary Gordon, an analyst at Portales Partners, estimated that lenders were on pace to originate about $3 trillion in new mortgages, about the same level as at the height of the housing boom, and profit margins had doubled. 
 But Mr. Gordon cautioned the good times could be fleeting. ''This can't last forever,'' he said.
 Even Wells Fargo's finance chief, Howard I. Atkins, was reluctant to declare victory. He said that Wells had adequate reserves and was ''very comfortable'' it had taken appropriate write-offs on the big portfolio of toxic mortgages and commercial real estate loans it accumulated when it took over Wachovia. But he did not rule out taking more write-offs in the future. 
 ''If the economy worsens significantly, we will have to revisit that,'' Mr. Atkins said. ''If the economy goes the other way, we may get something back.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1 - minute intervals yesterday.(Source: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RETAIL BANKING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



394 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farms Hit by Drop In Exports

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Only a year ago, all the stars appeared to be aligned for American farm exports. China and other developing countries were fattening up growing herds of cattle on American corn, and they were importing record amounts of foods to meet the appetite of their expanding middle classes. A drought in Australia meant a shortage of wheat on world markets. The price of dairy products soared across the globe because of shortages.
 Since then, all that has changed. 
 The developing countries are slowing their food imports, it is raining again in Australia, and the price of dairy products is slumping. A strengthening dollar in recent months has made United States farm exports less competitive.
 ''What a difference 12 months can make,'' Joseph Glauber, chief economist of the Department of Agriculture, noted in Congressional testimony last week. ''We have seen prices for most commodities fall 40 to 50 percent from their midyear peaks. The global economic slump has cast a pall on most markets.''
 The department recently predicted that farm exports, which account for about 20 percent of the value of farm production, would fall this year to $96 billion, from $117 billion in 2008, roughly in line with the recent falloff of all American exports. But the decline is particularly drastic for corn and wheat, two staples of the farm economy, and government economists say the falloff could directly lead to a loss of 45,000 jobs. 
 The drop in farm exports has been overshadowed by other bad economic news because the United States farm economy is in relatively good shape. Land prices in farm country remain firm, prices of farm produce have declined but remain relatively strong by historical measures, and several years of strong farm prices have left farmers in good financial shape. 
 But government and academic farm economists are worried that if the world economy does not recover over the next year or so, prices for produce and farm incomes could decline sharply and ultimately lead to a drop in farm real estate values. A recent report by the Agriculture Department said that American farm income could decline to $66 billion this year, from a record $89 billion last year. It could even decline by as much as 33 percent, to $60 billion, according to the report.
 While food is one purchase Americans are still making -- even if they are eating at home more and looking for bargains at lower-cost groceries -- there are signs that the food and industrial demand for agricultural products is declining in developing countries like Taiwan, Malaysia, Mexico and Egypt. Shortages have suddenly turned to surplus. Wheat prices in particular have been hurt by a big improvement in farm conditions in Australia this year, as well as better yields in Morocco, India, Mexico and Bangladesh.
 In recent months, export volumes of rice have declined by more than 10 percent, wheat by more than 30 percent, corn by more than 40 percent and sorghum by more than 60 percent. 
 Harlan Klein, a wheat farmer and chairman of the North Dakota Wheat Commission, said the drop in exports was forcing him to shop more carefully for fertilizer, seeds, fuel and equipment. ''We're buying what's used and that is not as good as you want, or running what you have years longer,'' he said, because exports ''are what drive our market. Every other bushel we produce gets exported.''
 Many American farmers are responding by reducing their plantings. In Oklahoma, which exports roughly two-thirds of its wheat crop, farmers are either leaving a portion of their lands fallow this year or growing wheat and rye for grazing cattle.
 ''The profit just isn't there,'' said Kim Anderson, a grain economist at Oklahoma State University, who noted that farmers were suffering from high fertilizer prices as well. 
 ''The 2008 wheat crop was almost a once-in-a-lifetime crop, where you had above-average yields and above-average prices,'' he added. ''And then you come into the 2009 crop with almost the exact opposite.''
 The Agriculture Department projects that American wheat and cotton plantings will be reduced by 7 percent this year compared with those in 2008, while corn plantings will be down 1 percent. Corn farmers have a cushion because of rising federal mandates for the use of corn ethanol in gasoline. Pork, cattle and poultry production are also expected to decline, in large part because of declining exports.
 The effect of the slowing global economy on American farmers is compounded by the fact that lower world demand means lower prices for farm produce sold in the United States as well. The losses could add up as the year goes on, especially if the value of the dollar remains at the higher levels of recent months. The euro traded near $1.60 a year ago but has since fallen to about $1.32. The British pound traded above $2 in late 2007 but has dropped to about $1.47. 
 For example, the value of corn exports from October to January was down 26 percent compared with the figure in the period a year earlier while the volume declined by a steeper 41 percent. That is because the lower value of the dollar in late 2007 and strong international demand propped up corn prices on international markets. 
 ''The drop in volumes of corn exports will probably accelerate through the spring and summer months this year in comparison with 2008 because of a continued strong dollar and the weakened purchasing power of foreign currencies,'' said David Swenson, an economist at Iowa State University. ''Most corn farmers in the Midwest are looking at a break-even year compared to fabulous returns they received in '07 and '08.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Vilsack, left, the agriculture secretary, and Joseph Glauber, the department's chief economist, studying corn plantings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (76%); WHEAT MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); LAYOFFS (64%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (94%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



395 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE ECONOMIC ADVISER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: An Address to Remember

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
Lawrence H. Summers, the top White House economic adviser, was appearing Thursday before a friendly crowd at the Economic Club of Washington, but the event turned out to be not all hail fellow well met. 
 Mr. Summers's message was mixed: the downward plunge of the economy might hit bottom within the next few months, but unemployment would probably keep rising for some time. 
 Comparing the downturn to a ball falling off a table, Mr. Summers said, ''I think we can be reasonably confident that that's going to end within the next few months and that you'll no longer have that sense of free fall.'' 
 Then a couple of prankish demonstrators of the kind who have taken to shadowing economic policy makers took the stage, walking brazenly behind Mr. Summers and unfurling a sign that read, ''We Want Our $$$ Back.'' 
 As they shouted out that he should resign, Mr. Summers and his host, the club president, David M. Rubenstein, sat in awkward silence. The Secret Service did not intervene, but the staff eventually hustled the demonstrators away. 
 ''Have you ever had second thoughts about coming back to Washington?'' Mr. Rubenstein, the chairman of the Carlyle Group, asked Mr. Summers. 
 ''There are moments that are less pleasant,'' he replied wryly.
 EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



396 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Report on the Labor Picture

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
New jobless claims fell more than expected last week but are stuck at elevated levels, while those continuing to receive unemployment insurance set a record for the 11th straight week. 
 The Labor Department said Thursday that the tally of initial jobless claims fell to a seasonally adjusted 654,000, down from a revised 674,000 the previous week. Analysts expected claims to drop to 660,000.
 But the total number of laid-off Americans receiving unemployment rose to 5.84 million, from 5.75 million. That was the most on records dating from 1967 and higher than analysts expected.
 The four-week average of claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, fell slightly to 657,250, the first drop after 11 straight increases.
 Still, the declines are from very high levels. The 674,000 figure was the highest number of initial claims in the current recession and the most in 26 years, though the labor market has grown by half since then.
 Initial claims reflect the pace of layoffs by companies and are considered a timely, if volatile, measure of the economy. A year ago, claims stood at 358,000.
 The 5.84 million continuing claims lag the initial claims data by a week and does not include 1.54 million Americans that received benefits under an extended unemployment compensation program approved by Congress last year. That adds 20 to 33 weeks of benefits on top of the typical 26 weeks provided by states.
 The high level of continuing claims is a sign that many laid-off workers are having difficulty finding new jobs.
 Among the states, Kentucky saw the largest jump in claims for the week ending March 28, an increase of more than 5,000 due to layoffs in the auto and manufacturing industries. Michigan, Illinois, Ohio and Tennessee reported the next largest increases.
 California had the biggest drop in recipients of more than 7,000, which it said was due to fewer layoffs in the service and manufacturing industries. Pennsylvania, Missouri, Kansas and Minnesota had the next largest drops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); APPROVALS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



397 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: With Advocates' Help, More Squatters Call Foreclosures Home

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
When the woman who calls herself Queen Omega moved into a three-bedroom house here last December, she introduced herself to the neighbors, signed contracts for electricity and water and ordered an Internet connection. 
 What she did not tell anyone was that she had no legal right to be in the home. 
 Ms. Omega, 48, is one of the beneficiaries of the foreclosure crisis. Through a small advocacy group of local volunteers called Take Back the Land, she moved from a friend's couch into a newly empty house that sold just a few years ago for more than $400,000. 
 Michael Stoops, executive director of the National Coalition for the Homeless, said about a dozen advocacy groups around the country were actively moving homeless people into vacant homes -- some working in secret, others, like Take Back the Land, operating openly. 
 In addition to squatting, some advocacy groups have organized civil disobedience actions in which borrowers or renters refuse to leave homes after foreclosure. 
 The groups say that they have sometimes received support from neighbors and that beleaguered police departments have not aggressively gone after squatters. 
 ''We're seeing sheriffs' departments who are reluctant to move fast on foreclosures or evictions,'' said Bill Faith, director of the Coalition on Homelessness and Housing in Ohio, which is not engaged in squatting. ''They're up to their eyeballs in this stuff. Everyone's overwhelmed.''
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Omega sat on the tiled floor of her unfurnished living room and described plans to use the space to tie-dye clothing and sell it on the Internet, hoping to save some money before she is inevitably forced to leave. 
 ''It's a beautiful castle, and it's temporary for me,'' she said, ''and if I can be here 24 hours, I'm thankful.'' In the meantime, she said, she has instructed her adult son not to make noise, to be a good neighbor.
 In Minnesota, a group called the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign recently moved families into 13 empty homes; in Philadelphia, the Kensington Welfare Rights Union maintains seven ''human rights houses'' shared by 13 families. Cheri Honkala, who is the national organizer for the Minnesota group and was homeless herself once, likened the group's work to ''a modern-day underground railroad,'' and said squatters could last up to a year in a house before eviction. 
 Other groups, including Women in Transition in Louisville, Ky., are looking for properties to occupy, especially as they become frustrated with the lack of affordable housing and the oversupply of empty homes. 
 Anita Beaty, executive director of the Metro Atlanta Task Force for the Homeless, said her group had been looking into asking banks to give it abandoned buildings to renovate and occupy legally. Ms. Honkala, who was a squatter in the 1980s, said the biggest difference now was that the neighbors were often more supportive. ''People who used to say, 'That's breaking the law,' now that they're living on a block with three or four empty houses, they're very interested in helping out, bringing over mattresses or food for the families,'' she said.
 Ben Burton, executive director of the Miami Coalition for the Homeless, said squatting was still relatively rare in the city. 
 But Take Back the Land has had to compete with less organized squatters, said Max Rameau, the group's director. 
 ''We had a move-in that we were going to do one day at noon,'' he said. ''At 10 o'clock in the morning, I went over to the house just to make sure everything was O.K., and squatters took over our squat. Then we went to another place nearby, and squatters were in that place also.'' 
 Mr. Rameau said his group differed from ad hoc squatters by operating openly, screening potential residents for mental illness and drug addiction, and requiring that they earn ''sweat equity'' by cleaning or doing repairs around the house and that they keep up with the utility bills. 
 ''We change the locks,'' he said. ''We pull up with a truck and move in through the front door. The families get a key to the front door.'' Most of the houses are in poor neighborhoods, where the neighbors are less likely to object. 
 Kelly Penton, director of communications for the City of Miami, said police officers needed a signed affidavit from a property's owner -- usually a bank -- to evict squatters. Representatives from the city's homeless assistance program then help the squatters find shelter. 
 To find properties, Mr. Rameau and his colleagues check foreclosure listings, then scout out the houses for damage. On a recent afternoon, Mr. Rameau walked around to the unlocked metal gate of an abandoned bungalow in the Liberty City neighborhood.
 ''Let the record reflect that there was no lock on the door,'' Mr. Rameau said. ''I'm not breaking in.'' 
 Inside, the wiring and sinks had been stripped out, and there was a pile of ashes on the linoleum floor where someone had burned a telephone book -- probably during a cold spell the previous week, Mr. Rameau said. 
 ''Two or three weeks ago, this house was in good condition,'' Mr. Rameau said. ''Now we wouldn't move a family in here.'' 
 So far the group has moved 10 families into empty houses, and Mr. Rameau said the group could not afford to help any more people. ''It costs us $200 per move-in,'' he said. 
 Mary Trody hopes not to leave again. On Feb. 20, Ms. Trody and her family of 12 -- including her mother, siblings and children -- were evicted from their modest blue house northwest of the city, which the family had lived in for 22 years, because her mother had not paid the mortgage.
 After a weekend of sleeping in a paneled truck, however, the family, with the help of Take Back the Land, moved back in. 
 ''This home is what you call a real home,'' Ms. Trody said. ''We had all family events -- Christmas parties, deaths, funerals, weddings -- all in this house.'' 
 On a splendid Florida afternoon, Ms. Trody's dog played in the water from a hose on the front lawn. The house had mattresses on the floors, but most belongings were in storage, in case they had to leave again. 
 ''I don't think it's fair living in a house and not paying,'' Ms. Trody said. 
 She said the mortgage lender had offered the family $1,500 to leave but was unwilling to negotiate minimal payments that would allow them to stay. She said she and her husband had been looking for work since he lost his delivery job with The Miami Herald. 
 In the meantime, she said, ''I still got knots in my stomach, because I don't know when they're going to come yank it back from me, when they're going to put me back on the streets.''
 The block was dotted with foreclosed homes. 
 Three of her neighbors said they knew she was squatting and supported her. One is Joanna Jean Pierre, 32, who affectionately refers to Ms. Trody as Momma.
 Ms. Pierre said Ms. Trody was a good neighbor and should be let alone. ''That's her house,'' Ms. Pierre said. ''She should be here.''
 Ms. Trody said that living here before, ''I felt secure; I felt this is my home.''
 ''This is where I know I'm safe,'' she added. ''Now it's like, this is a stranger. What's going to happen?''
 Even without furniture or homey touches, she talked about the house as if it were a member of her family. 
 ''I know it's not permanently, but we still have these couple days left,'' she said. ''It's like a person that you're losing, and you know you still have a few more days with them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since being evicted in mid-February, Mary Trody and her family have been living illegally in their home in North Miami, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 With help from Take Back the Land, an advocacy group, Mary Trody,on the phone, moved back in after her house was foreclosed on. Right, family members take a ''for sale'' sign down. With their furniture in storage, the family sleeps on mattresses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); EVICTION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); POLICE FORCES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (51%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



398 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Deal Built on Debt Sounds Familiar

BYLINE: By ROB COX and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Imagine a deal in which the buyer has to put up only 29 percent of the purchase price and the new company ends up with debt close to eight times operating earnings. Sounds like a throwback to the days when the world was awash in cheap money and Stephen A. Schwarzman, the head of Blackstone, was booking Rod Stewart for his birthday party. 
 Yet, those are the terms accompanying Barclays' sale of its iShares business to the British private equity firm CVC. Fifth Third, the bank based in Cincinnati, took a similar move with the buyout group Advent International just two weeks earlier by financing the sale of its credit processing business. Leveraged buyouts look to be back -- but only when the seller is the lender. 
 Take the iShares deal. Barclays is selling iShares, its exchange-traded funds business, for $4.37 billion. But CVC is only putting up $1 billion of that in cash. Barclays, which owns iShares through its money management arm, is lending CVC $3.1 billion, including $1.7 billion of senior debt and $1.1 billion in vendor financing. 
 That means leverage will comprise 71 percent of iShares' total capitalization. Moreover, the debt load will represent around 7.5 times the $411 million of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization that iShares reported last year. These are the kinds of debt levels not seen since the credit crisis hit more than a year ago.
 But don't bet on this being a return to the halcyon days of private equity. The sale of the iShares business bolsters Barclays' Tier 1 capital ratios across the board. 
 Fifth Third's sale of its processing business, meanwhile, increases its capital ratio by nearly a full percentage point, to about 11.5 percent. It's hard to believe that Barclays or any of its competitors would offer terms like these to just any old private equity firm. As with Fifth Third's foray into leveraged lending, there's more at stake in these deals than mere banking fees; call it further proof that it's good to be the bank.
 Dwarfed by Deficit 
 The good news is that the perennial United States trade imbalance has halved in a year. The bad news is that overall imbalances have worsened. The budget deficit is larger than the trade shortfall ever was. With gross domestic product falling and consumption only moderately down, that puts huge pressure on investment.
 At first sight, the narrowing in February's trade deficit to $26 billion is good news for the American economy. The perennial $700 billion to $800 billion annual deficits had hollowed out exporters and caused a buildup in United States assets held by foreigners, particularly Middle Eastern and Asian central banks. 
 Cutting the monthly deficit by 58 percent in a year without a catastrophic decline in the dollar is a considerable economic plus. Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China, should be able to relax a little about the fate of his $2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets.
 But the trade figures were disturbing in one respect: they showed imports down 28.8 percent compared with the previous year. That's in line with the sharp declines reported in Asian exports, suggesting that the problem may be a worsening decline in world trade rather than just an inventory bottleneck. That could have ominous implications for future global economic growth unless it is quickly reversed.
 At least, though, the trade deficit is no longer the largest American economic imbalance. That dubious title goes to the federal budget deficit -- estimated by the Congressional Budget Office at around $1.8 trillion, or 12.5 percent of G.D.P., for 2009. 
 The budget deficit could be a big problem. First-quarter G.D.P. is likely to decline significantly again. Its components are consumption, set to decline only moderately; government spending, which will be sharply higher; net exports, which are looking less negative; and capital investment, which could sharply fall.
 Assuming that's what happens, it could represent bad news for the United States economy's ability to rekindle healthy growth.
 ROB COX and MARTIN HUTCHINSON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barclays is selling iShares the old-fashioned way, financing the deal itself.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFTERIS PITARAKIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); EBITDA (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); ADVENT INTERNATIONAL CORP (84%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (84%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (60%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); FITB (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



399 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'ANGELA'S MIXTAPE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: A Struggle to Grow Up In an Activist's Shadow

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
''Wake up,'' Mom says. ''It's time to go to the demonstration.''
 So dawns another politically engaged morning in the unorthodox Berkeley, Calif., household that was home to Eisa Davis, the actress (''Passing Strange'') and author of the engaging new free-form autobiographical show, ''Angela's Mixtape,'' that opened on Thursday night at the Ohio Theater, a co-production of New Georges and the Hip-Hop Theater Festival.
 Ms. Davis's full name is Angela Eisa Davis. Leapfrog the middle and you have the handle of an American woman both celebrated and reviled during the tumultuous 1970s. That Angela Davis, the scholar and activist jailed for more than a year before being acquitted of involvement in a violent attempt to free a prisoner, is Angela Eisa Davis's aunt, and the secondary subject of this appropriately turbulent and quite funny show about the forces that influence the forging of identity. 
 Styled as an affectionate tribute to her aunt as well as a memoir of her own unusual upbringing, ''Angela's Mixtape'' is a rhythmic collage of scenes, songs and reminiscences. It hopscotches from the 1970s to the 1980s and beyond, moving back and forth in time. 
 The radiant Ms. Davis, who portrays a wide-eyed, wildly energetic younger version of herself in the show, is joined by four actresses, who play her aunt (Linda Powell), her mother (Kim Brockington), her grandmother (Denise Burse) and her cousin (Ayesha Ngaujah), as well as various subsidiary roles. 
 On the morning referred to above, the young Eisa pesters her mother with typical childish insistence. ''Why is it called a demonstration?'' she asks. ''What are we demonstrating?''
 ''Our unity!'' her mother patiently responds. ''We are showing people there is a mass movement and that we want social and economic justice for oppressed peoples all over the globe.''
 ''Who are oppressed people?''
 ''We are all oppressed as long as there is injustice.''
 With tutorials like this taking place before a breakfast of tofu scramble, little Eisa grows naturally into a peppy little radical, shouting ''Off the pig!'' at rallies and beginning her career as a performer by singing freedom songs and reciting selections from her aunt's autobiography.
 But while her political consciousness is being carefully tended, Eisa finds her own attempts to assert a distinctive identity getting lost in the shuffle of activism and hobnobbing with elite African-Americans that consumed much of her mother's time. Eisa would prefer to stay at home and participate in an important piano recital, but her mother insists that she join the family on a trip to Grenada, which offers ''a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see the revolution in action.''
 Although the tone of the scenes set in Ms. Davis's early youth are rich in humor and crazy paradox -- she and her mother earnestly discuss the ontological questions raised by the movie ''Back to the Future'' in one particularly loopy passage -- the aching sense of casual neglect is unmistakable. 
 For the most part, however, Ms. Davis does not dig too deeply into the darker material; as an autobiography, ''Angela's Mixtape'' is fleet and mostly sweet, accenting the comic wonders of the world in which she grew up, and often breaking into a perky dance just when matters begin to get emotional.
 That's not a major drawback, since the history of the family that is woven into the show is naturally absorbing and at times harrowing. Selections Ms. Davis and Ms. Powell read from Angela Davis's autobiography reveal the brutal racism Angela and her sister faced when they moved along with other black families to a largely white neighborhood in Birmingham, Ala. This was the late 1940s, and ''bombings were such a constant response that soon our neighborhood became known as Dynamite Hill.'' 
 Ms. Powell brings a composed dignity to her performance as Angela, and Ms. Brockington's blend of maternal concern and intellectual imperiousness feels just right. Ms. Davis herself is convincingly naive, staying inside the skin of her younger self with admirable ease, although there are times when you wish she had also included more mature reflections on her experience. 
 ''How do I live up to my name?'' is the pointed question that Ms. Davis asks at the top of the show. In a sense the production, directed by Liesl Tommy, never resolves the clash between the high drama of her family history and the young Eisa's more mundane struggles with self-determination. The stories of her aunt's experience can make Eisa's agonizing over her friendships, music lessons and her crushes on boys seem inconsequential, and some of the writing for the mother-daughter resolution feels a little pat. 
 But the strange juxtaposition of the prosaic trials of adolescence and the urgent radicalism of the family politics is also what gives the show its own distinctive identity. That's the burden Ms. Davis had to bear, trying to move through the choppy waters of self-discovery while being asked to carry a weighty sense of racial and cultural history in the trendy one-shouldered backpack she liked to carry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angela's Mixtape: Eisa Davis stars in her autobiographical play, about life as Angela Davis's niece, which opened on Thursday at the Ohio Theater.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BALDASSARE)
 From left, Linda Powell, Kim Brockington and Eisa Davis play relatives in Ms. Davis's ''Angela's Mixtape,'' at the Ohio Theater.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BALDASSARE)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); MUSIC (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); RAP MUSIC (70%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (66%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Angela's Mixtape (Play); Angela's Mixtape (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



400 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: With More Rooms Empty, Hotels Seek to Cut Worker Pay

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the city's hotels in the midst of a sudden slowdown in business, operators are seeking wage cuts and other concessions from the unions representing 27,500 bellhops, housekeepers and waiters.
 But the unions are drawing a line across hotel lobbies, from the high-end Carlyle to the more budget-minded Ramada Inn, saying they see no need to bend now that operators are cutting rates in an effort to fill vacant rooms with tourists, executives and other travelers. It is far too soon to judge the financial health of the industry, said Peter Ward, president of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, an alliance of hotel unions.
 ''They had 10 years of magnificent, never-ending upside: record profits and record occupancy,'' Mr. Ward said Thursday. ''Now, they've had just 100 bad days, and a bunch of these big tough capitalists are crying for relief. They want to take it out on dishwashers and room attendants.'' 
 Housekeepers at unionized hotels make $803.93 a week and are due for a 3.5 percent wage increase in July, which would bring their pay to $832.07, union officials said. Dishwashers make $781.42 a week, which is to increase to $808.77 on July 1. Bellhops make comparable wages; waiters' wages vary depending on tips. The Carlyle is among 20 hotels in the city that asked an arbitrator for help in reopening union contracts over the last week, although they have yet to make specific demands. Others include the Courtyard Times Square South, the Paramount Hotel, the Jolly Hotel Madison Towers, the Holiday Inn SoHo and the Radisson Lexington.
 No one believes that the city's hotel industry is immune to the recession. There are fewer foreign travelers in the city, and corporations are slashing travel budgets and demanding bigger discounts. So hotel operators, like construction companies, newspapers and City Hall, want their union employees to accept wage and benefit cuts and more flexible work rules.
 ''There certainly needs to be some concessions,'' said James McBride, managing director of the Carlyle, where the average room rate is still more than $600 a night.
 Mr. McBride said that business for the first two months of the year was off by 18 percent at the Carlyle over the same period last year. Occupancy at another luxury hotel, the Four Seasons, dipped below 50 percent in the first two months of the year, from 67 percent a year ago, according to hotel analysts.
 ''We're looking at everything,'' said John Fitzpatrick, chief executive of the Fitzpatrick Hotel Group and chairman of the Hotel Association of New York City. ''We have to try and save costs everywhere. But he said it was ''a little premature'' to discuss specific concessions hotel owners have in mind. 
 The average occupancy rate at New York City hotels in the first two months of this year was 61.8 percent, down from 73.5 during the same period last year, according to Smith Travel Research, a national hotel research firm. At the same time, the average daily room rate dropped to $196.30, from $232.25.
 ''It's not a pretty picture,'' said Joseph Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association.
 The industry's problems are compounded by the prospect of 10,000 new hotel rooms in 2009 and 2010. 
 ''We're in this classic economic model where we've got declining demand because of the economy and added supply,'' said John Fox, a hotel consultant with PKF Consulting.
 Mr. Ward said nearly 4,000 hotel workers have been laid off since the beginning of the year. He is not eager to make concessions and be hit with additional layoffs in the future. Under collective bargaining agreements, owners can, under certain conditions, ask to reopen a contract. Mr. Ward, in turn, can ask to look at their books. 
 This all comes as a bit of a shock for an industry that has enjoyed a record-breaking number of years in which hotels were essentially full for more than 250 days a year. The occupancy rate dropped below 80 percent in only 3 of the last 12 years, making New York hotels the envy of the national industry. 
 That allowed hotel operators to raise their average room rates by 63.9 percent, to $276.18, from 2003 to 2009.
 Even today, New York hotels are among the best performing in the 25 largest markets in the country. But during the real estate boom, some hoteliers expanded or refinanced, thereby increasing the debt on their properties, which is now causing them problems.
 Hotel owners, said Mr. Ward, have embraced a business model predicated on ''unsustainable room rates and occupancies.'' 
 ''This is a cyclical industry, and they're not prepared for the bumps in the road,'' Mr. Ward said.
 Hotel operators are working with the city on a new marketing plan that could include a nine-city tour of European capitals by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to drum up interest in New York. Airlines, which had refused to offer discount packages in the past, are now willing to do so, Mr. Fitzpatrick said. Mr. Spinnato said he remained optimistic about the future in the face of consumer reluctance to spend money on travel. ''We need to turn that around,'' he said.
 At the same time, he acknowledged that if wages were cut for hotel workers and other Americans, they would ''spend less money.'' But, he added, ''I think it's premature to get into those issues at this time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A doorman at the Four Seasons Hotel in Manhattan. With many travel budgets being trimmed, hotels are asking unions for concessions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOTEL STAFF (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); LODGING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: PARAMOUNT HOTEL (54%); FITZPATRICK HOTEL GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOTEL & MOTEL TRADES COUNCIL (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

 
