

601 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 27, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Resisting Census Plan to Correct Undercounting

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26

 BODY:
While thousands of people in California and North Dakota grow anxious over the delay in further Federal aid to help them recover from devastating floods, the bill to provide it is hung up, in part, by the continuing political dispute over how the Census Bureau will count the population in 2000.
At issue is the bureau's proposal to make up for expected undercounting of some groups with a well-established scientific method called statistical sampling, which is routinely used for the monthly calculation of the unemployment rate and other Government statistics. Besides making sampling an integral part of the census for the first time, officials want to use the technique to conduct a "quality check" afterward, adjusting the count based on those results. 
 But many Republicans think sampling will benefit Democrats, and they say that using this method would allow the Clinton Administration to rig the count for partisan advantage.
Census officials say sampling is needed to avoid a repeat of the 1990 Census, in which, studies found, an estimated 10 million people went uncounted and another 6 million were counted twice. Bureau officials argue that getting an accurate count using traditional methods would be prohibitively expensive, if it was possible at all.
"Our experience in '90 says, as do all of the experts that have been invited by us to look at the issue, that if we continue to rely just on trying to physically count people we will at best -- at best -- only equal the 1990 results," said Martha Farnsworth Riche, the director of the Census Bureau.
The political stakes are high since the count determines the allocation of Congressional seats and the lines for Congressional and state legislative districts. Prominent among historically undercounted groups are recent immigrants, inner city blacks and rural residents. Many Republicans complain that these groups tend to vote Democratic.
Earlier this month, Senate Republicans backed away from an amendment to the $8.4 billion disaster relief bill that would have barred the Census Bureau from spending any money in the current fiscal year on preparations for using statistical sampling in the 2000 census. Recently, however, Republican leaders in the House and Senate have sought to reinsert the amendment into the disaster relief measure. President Clinton has threatened to veto the bill if the prohibition survives.
In 1991, Speaker Newt Gingrich supported the use of sampling to correct the error in the 1990 census. Recently, he and other Republican Congressional leaders wrote a letter to Ms. Riche contending that the Census Bureau must try to count all residents the traditional way and that the country "cannot rely on statistical schemes that compromise accuracy for the sake of economy."
What some strategists advising the Republican National Committee fear is that statistical sampling may swell the number of minorities in black urban districts that are now safe Democratic seats, making them, in essence, overpopulated. As a result, state legislatures might redraw lines for Congressional districts that shift the "excess" population -- loyal Democrats -- into suburban swing districts where they could tip the balance away from Republicans.
But some dispassionate observers say that much of the debate is shrouded in misperceptions. They see a repeat of the "motor voter" law that Congress enacted in 1993 to make it easier for people to register to vote. At the time many Republican critics feared that it would lead to more Democrats on the voting rolls. But since the law went into effect three years ago, both parties have benefited equally.
"A lot of stuff has taken on a life of its own," Tim Storey, who follows reapportionment and redistricting issues for the National Council of State Legislatures, said of the debate over sampling. "People take it as gospel that Republicans lose through sampling. But it's never been proven."
About 35 percent of those missed in the 1990 census were black, and a large number of the whites who went uncounted were Hispanic -- two groups that tend to be loyal Democrats. But, with the exception of New York and Maryland, the states where the most people were missed were all in the Sun Belt, a region of the country where Republicans are ascendant.
Indeed, a crude projection done recently by the Congressional Research Service indicated that if sampling was used to estimate the uncounted, Mississippi would retain a Congressional seat it would otherwise lose. Yet among the Congressional leaders fighting against the use of sampling for the 2000 Census is Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi.
"It's a two-edged sword that cuts both ways," said a Republican Senate staffer involved in the issue. "There is a parochial standpoint that says if I'm from Georgia or New Mexico it's great to have a more accurate count because my state will get more representation. But do we want more representation if it results in a Democratic seat?"
Given the potential political impact and the fact that statistical sampling is little understood by the average voter, some Republicans say Democrats, who control the executive branch, and thus, the Census Bureau, could rig the reapportionment.
"By and large, the notion of statistical sampling scares the living daylights out of me," said Benjamin Ginsberg, a former general counsel of the Republican National Committee who is an expert on political redistricting. "It is so subject to political manipulation."
Such sentiments have offended the civil servant statisticians designing the next census. They say they just want to make sure that the 2000 census is the most accurate it can be. And besides, they argue, their plans call for a panel of independent experts to spot any violation of professional practice.
Critics of the use of sampling also cite legal concerns. The Constitution states that an actual enumeration be conducted of the country's population every 10 years to determine representation in the House. Critics say that the instruction precludes the use of sampling, and that the Census Bureau could find its results invalidated by the Supreme Court.
In their recent letter to Ms. Riche, the Republican leaders, who have traditionally been more frugal about Government spending, said that the legal questions raised by sampling were so great that "the census must be funded at levels necessary to comply explicitly with the Constitution."
Census Bureau officials respond by saying that it has always been next to impossible to get an exact count anyway and that changed demographics makes the use of sampling ever more compelling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; ELECTIONS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); CENSUS; STATISTICS; REAPPORTIONMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS CENSUS (97%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); VETO (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); CITY LIFE (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997



602 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 27, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Imaging Device Makes Chip-Sized Cameras a Real-World Possibility

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 26

 BODY:
The digital still camera that Toshiba will start selling this summer does not look much different from dozens of cameras that have flooded the market lately. But on the inside, the camera holds what could be the seed of a revolution.
The camera is the first by a major Japanese electronics company to use a new type of image-capturing device that might one day make possible the exquisitely tiny camera-on-a-chip. 
 Such cheap micro-cameras could be plastered everywhere as security monitors or placed in the rear bumpers of cars to help drivers back up. They might even make possible the camera in the glasses frame used by Tom Cruise in "Mission: Impossible." And instead of highlighting a passage in a book with a colored marker, a student of the future might take a snapshot of the passage with a camera built into a pen.
Until now, camcorders and digital still cameras, which store images electronically rather than on film, have captured images using a chip called a charge-coupled device, or C.C.D.
But these devices have some drawbacks. They use a lot of power, requiring bulky batteries, and are made with a process different from that used to make other microelectronic circuits. That makes it difficult to combine a C.C.D. with other circuits on the same piece of silicon.
The LSI Logic Corporation, for instance, will introduce a chip that has almost all the circuitry needed for a digital still camera -- but not the C.C.D., which must still remain separate.
The Toshiba Corporation's imaging chip, however, is made using a process known as CMOS (pronounced SEA-moss), the same process used for making many other integrated circuits.
That process could result in economies of scale by allowing the imaging chips to be made on big production lines used for other chips. It should make it possible to combine on a single piece of silicon the image sensor, timing controls, image compression and memory needed for a camera -- producing the camera-on-a-chip. CMOS imaging chips also use far less power than C.C.D.'s.
One big application could be video cameras small and cheap enough to be built into every personal computer, allowing PC users to hold video conferences. Creative Laboratories Inc., the Singapore company known for its Sound Blaster audio boards, is introducing a PC video conferencing system using a CMOS imaging chip from VLSI Vision Inc. in Edinburgh.
Sensors using CMOS, which stands for complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor, could also tilt the balance of power in the industry, allowing Americans and Europeans a chance to catch up with the Japanese, who now dominate the market both for C.C.D.'s and the camcorders and digital cameras that use them.
"CMOS imaging allows other companies to get into the imaging business," said Bryan Ackland, a researcher for Lucent Technologies, the equipment manufacturer spun off from the AT&T Corporation. Lucent has been researching CMOS imaging chips but has not yet decided to make a product, he said.
The Sony Corporation and the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company are the leading suppliers of the charge-coupled devices, about 20 million of which were produced for use in cameras and camcorders last year. Including simpler devices used in fax machines and other office equipment, the total market was estimated at about $650 million.
But the CMOS sensors have been pioneered by two start-ups, VLSI in Scotland and Photobit L.L.C. in La Crescenta, Calif., a spinoff from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Other start-ups include Omnivision Technologies in San Jose, Calif., and Suni Imaging Microsystems in Mountain View, Calif.
Numerous big American companies, including Eastman Kodak, Polaroid, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., Intel and National Semiconductor, are working on CMOS imaging chips, said Eric R. Fossum, chief scientist at Photobit, who introduced the technology to many of those companies when he was at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. By contrast, he said, when he approached Japanese companies a few years ago, "the reaction was fairly uniformly uninterested."
That might no longer be the case. Toshiba has become a leader in the new imaging technology. "We've suddenly got a shot of credibility from Toshiba," Peter B. Denyer, chief executive of VLSI, said.
Matsushita is also working on CMOS imagers that would be combined on a chip with image-compression circuitry, Akira Matsuzawa, a researcher on the project, said.
Both types of imaging chips have an array of cells representing the individual picture elements, or pixels. When light falls on the surface of the silicon cells, it is converted into an electric charge in proportion to the brightness of the light.
The problem delivering the signals to a device that reads them. Connecting a wire to each pixel would cover the chip, blocking out the light. And the charges are so weak that they would be obliterated if put on a common wire, called a bus.
The C.C.D., invented in the late 1960's at Bell Laboratories, solved this problem by transferring the charges from pixel to pixel in an elaborate bucket brigade. But this requires three different voltages and a lot of time and power.
But with semiconductor features constantly shrinking, it has become possible to put an amplifier inside each picture cell to increase the charge, allowing it to be transferred off the chip on a common wire and making the CMOS approach practical.
Still, some attempts to develop such sensors have floundered because the images have been poorer in quality and resolution than those captured by C.C.D.'s. A particularly big problem has been noise, which produces unwanted lines or dots on the image.
So far, CMOS imagers have been used in only a few applications where low cost has been more important than image quality. VLSI Vision's sensor is used in the Kidcam, a black-and-white camcorder for children that is sold by Tyco Toys.
But now the quality is improving and the chips are starting to advance into mainstream products.
The Toshiba camera uses a CMOS imaging chip with 330,000 pixels, standard for consumer-level cameras. The camera, which is expected to sell for about $500 in the United States, can be plugged directly into a card slot in a personal computer to transfer the images for display on a monitor.
The Vivitar Corporation, a camera equipment maker based in Newbury Park, Calif., is introducing a digital still camera using a CMOS imaging chip from VLSI Vision. It will capture 800,000 pixels, the first such camera with that resolution to have a price of less than $500, said Alexis Gerard, publisher of Future Image Report, a Burlingame, Calif., newsletter on digital cameras.
At a technical conference in February, Toshiba announced that it had developed a CMOS imaging chip containing 1.3 million pixels, the highest resolution now supported by monitors.
Not everyone is so gung-ho on CMOS imagers. With C.C.D.'s, "the picture quality is much better than with CMOS image sensors," said Nobukazu Teranishi, a senior manager in the sensor research laboratory of the NEC Corporation.
Sony, which has produced 50 million C.C.D.'s to date and now churns out nearly a million a month, is increasing its manufacturing capacity to meet increased demand.
A problem for producers of CMOS imagers is the head start that C.C.D. makers have. "The C.C.D. is very mature technology and they have a very strong marketing capability," said Junichi Nakamura, a researcher at the Olympus Optical Company, which has a small research project on CMOS imagers.
But Vern Klein, who is in charge of selling LSI Logic's new camera chip to digital camera makers, disagreed. "All our customers believe that CMOS sensors will be the way forward," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (85%); 6502 (TSE) (85%); LSI (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP TOSHIBA CORP (85%); LSI CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOSHIBA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; COMPUTER CHIPS; CAMERAS COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (86%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (77%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (74%); TELECONFERENCING (65%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW TOM CRUISE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997



603 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 27, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: Cooling Down the Heated Talk;
Still Defiant, but Subtler, Industry Awaits E.P.A. Rules

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Corporate America is not a quick study. Again and again, companies have responded to proposed environmental rules by threatening bankruptcies, huge layoffs, foreign inroads into American markets, even an end to the car-based American way of life -- and it has never worked.
Finally, though, companies are acknowledging that the sky did not fall every time they were forced to clean up their act and their air. Now, as the Environmental Protection Agency prepares to impose yet another set of strict new air pollution controls this July, they are moving their doom-and-gloom approach, if not off the stove, to the furthest back burner. 
 "If we've learned any lesson, it's that you have to engage the debate on a different basis than costs," said John M. McManus, manager of environmental strategies for American Electric Power, a huge utility.
But without the unifying plea of untenable burdens, industry approaches the E.P.A.'s latest rules, aimed at reducing smog and soot, in disarray. Many industries are trying to cut their own deals with the agency. Others are putting pressure on mayors and governors to lobby Washington for them. Still others are attacking the science -- and sometimes the scientists -- on which the new rules are based.
The camps have been forming since November, when the agency began holding hearings on its proposed rules. The E.P.A. said existing levels in the air of ozone and "fine particulates" -- dust specks 28 times as thin as a human hair -- were causing a high incidence of childhood asthma, and possibly tens of thousands of adult deaths a year.
Industry says the E.P.A. has not conclusively proved this, and thus should not set stricter rules. Environmentalists and regulators counter that the agency, which Congress set up for the purpose of keeping the environment healthy and safe, must issue regulations unless they are proved unnecessary, not the other way around.
"Companies are attacking the scientific legitimacy of standards only because their cost arguments have been disproven so many times," said Daniel Rosenberg, a lawyer for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, an environmental lobbying group. Added David G. Hawkins, a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council: "This is not a scientific debate. It is an attempt to change policy and weaken the law."
Historically, the courts have sided with the environmentalists. A decade ago, the steel industry lost a suit, which went all the way to the Supreme Court, seeking to prohibit the E.P.A. from regulating pollutants unless it was certain they were a health risk. "The Supreme Court basically said, the more uncertainty there is, the more discretion the E.P.A. should have," conceded Andrew G. Sharkey, president of the American Iron and Steel Institute.
Still, industry sees no choice but to take this tack again. If the E.P.A. issues tougher rules in July, localities will probably force companies to filter out more dust, and to control emissions of nitrous oxides, benzene and other chemicals that are the precursors of ozone. That could cost companies millions of dollars.
Still, after so many years of crying wolf, companies are loath to make the cost argument. Even American Electric Power, once the undisputed ringleader of the anti-Clean Air Act gang, has muted its cries. Some quick history can show why.
In the early 1970's, the utility mounted a $3.7 million advertising campaign to contend that technology did not exist to meet proposed rules on sulfur dioxide and particulates. In 1975 an equipment maker, Research Cottrell, began marketing a sulfur dioxide smokestack scrubber that proved American Electric wrong.
So then the utility complained that it would cost $260 million a power plant to install enough scrubbers, leading to skyrocketing electric costs. The E.P.A. did not budge, the cleanup tab turned out to be much lower, and electric rates went up only marginally.
Skip ahead to the late 1980's, when Congress and the E.P.A., worrying about acid rain -- caused by sulfur-based pollution that can travel wide distances -- insisted on even stricter sulfur controls. American Electric said the new standards would cost utilities more than $5 billion, raising residential electricity rates 12 percent and industrial rates as much as 39 percent.
Again, Washington gave no ground. But scrubber technology improved and railroad deregulation made it cheaper to bring in low-sulfur coal. The utility industry's costs were less than half its projections.
Small wonder that American Electric and its sister utilities are loath to cry economic foul this time. Instead, they are asking that the existing 10-year ozone and large-particulate- abatement program, which the E.P.A. mandated in 1990, be allowed to run its course.
"Let us finish this first and then discuss what else must be done," said Robert A. Beck, vice president for environmental affairs at the Edison Electric Institute, the trade group for utilities.
All the new approaches -- the begging for time, the emphasis on science, the absence of inflated cost claims -- reflect industry's new relationship with investors, customers and the courts.
In the 70's, while the E.P.A. did not believe industry's threats of financial disaster, investors did -- and sent Rust Belt stocks plummeting. Now utilities, heavy manufacturers and steelmakers fear that inflated cost forecasts could touch off another selling spree.
"I always ask companies, 'Are you budgeted to meet new rules?' and they always answer, 'Oh, certainly,' " said Kenneth W. P. Hoffman, a steel analyst with Prudential Securities Research.
Consumers, always edgy about placing a dollar value on health, have been made more uneasy by the debate over managed health care and disclosures about the tobacco industry's suppression of data.
"The public has a bad taste in its mouth about cost-benefit issues," conceded Augustine E. Moffitt Jr., vice president for safety, health and environment at Bethlehem Steel.
The courts have been little help. In 1992, for example, a Federal court ruled that the E.P.A. must stick to a strict timetable for reviewing whether rules must be tightened.
In the face of all this adversity, industry's once-united front has fragmented. The inter-industry Air Quality Standards Coalition, which insists that the E.P.A. stick with existing rules, only pretends to speak with one voice. Petroleum companies, which might have to reformulate gasoline under new rules, also want to maintain the status quo. But electric utilities simply want to postpone new rules while they deal with deregulation.
And chemical companies, which are far more worried about pending toxic-waste changes, are currying favor with the E.P.A. by offering to settle for a stricter interim air standard that could be strengthened or eased, depending on what additional research indicates.
When the Chemical Manufacturers Association belatedly joined the air-quality coalition in February, Joe J. Mayhew, its assistant vice president for environmental policy, visited Mary Nichols, the E.P.A.'s assistant administrator for air and radiation, to reassure her that his industry would remain conciliatory.
"We really believe that if we go to the E.P.A. with a supportive attitude and some data making our case, we'll do better than if we just keep arguing about costs," Mr. Mayhew said. Indeed, he concedes that Du Pont, Dow Chemical and several other companies have made money by recapturing "pollutants" like ammonia or other chemical ingredients from their waste-water streams, and by providing nonpolluting substitutes for some banned substances like chlorofluorocarbons.
Still, the conciliatory approach remains a rarity. Most companies still contend that the E.P.A. is relying on flawed studies -- and too few of them, at that. They are particularly incensed about a study by two professors at Harvard's School of Public Health that links fine dust particles to premature deaths. The professors have refused to release their raw data or talk to the press; earlier this month, Harvard agreed to let an independent research group reanalyze the data.
The E.P.A. hotly disputes that it overemphasized that study. Gary Guzy, its chief policy adviser, said the agency combed 185 ozone studies, and 86 particulate studies, before deciding to set new standards.
"Some say this is junk science, that we picked numbers out of a hat, but there is compelling evidence that people are getting sick," he said.
The American Petroleum Institute, for one, is trying to muster equally compelling evidence that they are not. In the process, it is using science as a back door through which to reintroduce cost issues.
The institute recently used scientific hypotheses about the link between soot and smog levels and respiratory illness to calculate the savings to society of a reduction in lost workdays or hospitalizations stemming from such illnesses. It concluded that in ozone-troubled Chicago, for one, industry expenditures of $2.5 billion a year to meet stricter standards would yield only $33 million worth of health benefits.
"Ten years ago, I can't think of a single industry that really quantified the benefits as well as costs," said Paul Bailey, the institute's director of health and environmental affairs.
Industry is not confining its attention to the E.P.A., of course. Last year's Congressional Review Act gives Congress the right to overturn rules it thinks are unreasonable, and some companies are trying to get their representatives to call for a vote on the proposed rules. But far more are taking their pleas to the citizenry; American Electric, for example, is sending its executives to speak to Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs.
Some are even letting histrionics -- albeit not cost-related ones -- creep back into the fray. Citizens for a Sound Economy, an inter-industry group, is taking out ads warning that the E.P.A.'s new rules will mean the end of backyard barbecues and fireworks -- a prediction that a top E.P.A. official termed "ridiculous."
Environmentalists, not surprisingly, are fighting back. The Sierra Club and Mr. Rosenberg's group recently collected thousands of postcards from families supporting tougher rules, and orchestrated a May 9 event in which mothers and their asthmatic children delivered them to the White House.
For now, industry has forgone similar media events. But environmentalists expect that if civilized whispers and scientific studies do not derail the new smog and soot rules, industry will again make cacophony its tactic of choice.
"The science argument is their lead argument inside the Beltway, but they're still running doom-and- gloom ads and Op-Eds elsewhere," Mr. Rosenberg noted. "And if the science argument doesn't work, you're going to see even more."

GRAPHIC: Photos: American Electric Power, an Ohio-based utility, was once the undisputed ringleader of industries against the Clean Air Act. In the early 1970's, the company mounted a $3.7 million advertising campaign against regulations imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency. Today, the company emphasizes its environmental record.
 
Chart/Photos: "Cleaning Up Its Act"
With its threats of dire consequences from tough anti-pollution measures repeatedly proven to be exaggerated, American industry lately has softened its rhetoric.
 
EARLY 70's
Industrial companies led the campaign against stricter pollution controls, contending that environmentalists were overstating the problem and that the technology did not exist to meet Government demands. The market responded with affordable solutions. Photo of newspaper headline dated May 4, 1970.
 
MID- TO LATE 70's
Business warned that complying with clean air and water regulations would cost jobs, drive up utility rates and make American industry less competitive. The tab turned out to be much lower. Photo of newspaper headline dated Nov. 24, 1974.
 
LATE 80's TO EARLY 90's
Industry and conservative lawmakers sought to impose cost-benefit tests on environmental regulations, arguing that the health return on capital investment often was low. The public was uncomfortable putting a price tag on health. Photo of newspaper headline dated Aug. 15, 1990.
 
MID- TO LATE 90's
Though still resistant to ever-tougher rules, companies increasingly seek partnerships with Government in ecology-friendly projects and promote their environmental performance. Photo of newspaper headline dated Oct. 19, 1994. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SMOG (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); LAWYERS (73%); ASTHMA (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997



604 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 27, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Stocks and Franc Fall in France After Surprise Victory by the Left

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 26

 BODY:
French stocks tumbled today, and the franc was lower, too, after the left won a surprise victory in the first round of a parliamentary election.
The benchmark CAC-40 stock index plunged in its biggest single-day loss in more than four years as the prospect of a Socialist-led government stunned investors who had driven the market higher on expectations that the center-right would win. 
 The index closed down 108.16 points, or 3.91 percent, at 2,654.74, its biggest fall in percentage terms since October 1992. The biggest losers were shares in companies involved in privatizations and revampings that risk being halted if a Socialist-led coalition gains power after the second round of elections on Sunday.
Many French voters have grown dissatisfied with privatizations and corporate overhauls, as well as the Government's austerity measures, which are intended to bring the country into line with requirements for the European common currency. The country's high unemployment has also been a source of discontent.
The franc initially reacted sharply to the election results, but prices steadied as traders anticipated that a radical shift in policy, particularly on European monetary union, was unlikely if the left won the runoff.
"The feeling, particularly in the bond market, is that the two major parties on the right and the left are committed to meeting" the criteria for monetary union, Joanne Perez, a market strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said. The Socialists might loosen fiscal policies slightly, but still try to ensure that France is accepted among the first round of countries in the currency union, she said.
"So even if the Socialists get in, we don't expect a real increase in the deficit in the next year or two," she said.
The franc was lower against the German mark, which generally gains when questions are raised about the currency union, because of it is seen as the safest European currency. Demand for marks also drove that currency higher against the dollar in European trading, though the mark's strength eased later in the day. Other European stock markets were higher.
Elsewhere, stocks were marginally higher in Japan, helped by some solid corporate earnings reports. The benchmark Nikkei average of 225 shares gained 34.50 points.
[On Tuesday in Tokyo, Japanese stocks closed lower. The Nikkei was down 153.61 points, or 0.77 percent, at 19,889.89.]
Financial markets were closed in the United States for Memorial Day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; CURRENCY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GERMAN MARK (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997



605 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 27, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Rowland's Welfare Rule Is Criticized as Too Tough

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 26

 BODY:
The three Republican Governors in the metropolitan region have all worked aggressively to cut the welfare rolls, but only one -- John G. Rowland of Connecticut -- has cut off food stamps to able-bodied adults.
The decision reflects Mr. Rowland's strong view that all welfare recipients must find jobs, or perform volunteer work, to retain benefits. Since February, 4,862 people in Connecticut have had their food stamps cut off. 
 Under the new Federal welfare law, able-bodied adults without children can receive food stamps for only three months unless they find a job or perform volunteer work. But 41 states have obtained waivers from that rule because of depressed economies.
Mr. Rowland, unlike his counterparts in New Jersey and New York, has refused to apply for the waiver, and some of his fellow Republicans in Connecticut view that decision as too harsh. Last week, the State Senate voted 29 to 7 to require the Governor to seek the waiver, with 10 Republicans voting for the measure.
"There is a thin line between being tough-minded and hardhearted," the State Senate President pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat, said before the vote.
Connecticut lawmakers and governors in other states have asserted that it would be unfair to penalize food stamp recipients in economically depressed areas for not finding jobs. Some, like Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, have said that workfare programs that would provide volunteer opportunities in return for food stamps are not yet extensive enough.
State Representative Brian E. Mattiello, a Republican who was Mr. Rowland's point man two years ago in negotiations to scale back welfare benefits, has told Mr. Rowland that cutting off food stamps was going too far. "I acknowledge that with a benefit comes a responsibility, but we're talking about food," he said.
Most single adults receive about $120 a month in food stamps, and must have a net income below the poverty line to qualify. Under the new Federal welfare law, able-bodied adults between ages 18 and 50 without children are limited to three months of food stamps over a three-year period. Extensions can be granted if the person is working 20 hours a week, or is enrolled in a state-sponsored workfare program.
But the Federal Government agreed to waive the time limit for places where jobs are scarce. The Department of Agriculture, which administers the food stamps program, has approved waivers for areas where the unemployment rate exceeds 10 percent or in localities that have been deemed "labor surplus" areas.
Areas are designated as having a "labor surplus"if they have an unemployment rate exceeding the national average by 20 percent for two consecutive years.
Although the Connecticut Labor Department classified 15 cities and towns, including Hartford, as labor surplus areas, Mr. Rowland has refused to apply for a waiver.
Instead, he established a workfare program that would provide volunteer placements. In return for volunteering 25 hours a month at private nonprofit organizations, the individual could continue to receive food stamps for another year.
Mr. Rowland declined to be interviewed about the program, but his spokesman, Dean C. Pagani, said, "He believes the way to go is to stick with a volunteer program, and send people a message that they need to work to receive welfare."
The debate over food stamps could affect how Mr. Rowland enforces a 21-month limit, the nation's shortest, on family welfare benefits that will be phased in, starting in November. If Mr. Rowland continued food-stamp benefits for adults without children, it could set a precedent for continuing benefits for thousands of people on family welfare.
David Berry, a spokesman for the Social Service Department, disputed the notion that people could not find jobs. He pointed out that 43 percent of the people on family welfare have found work since it became a requirement in July 1995.
"We don't feel there are no jobs out there," Mr. Berry said.
Many nonprofit groups that are supposed to be offering volunteer slots have criticized the workfare program as ill-conceived, and the United Way of Connecticut last week lobbied for the bill to force Mr. Rowland to apply for the waiver.
"These are not people who are going to be ideal volunteers," said Sherby Worthen, a senior vice president of the Connecticut United Way, explaining that it was unrealistic to expect these people to find placements. Many volunteer jobs are with children or the elderly and are not well-suited for welfare recipients with criminal histories and problems with drug abuse, she said.
Outside a shelter on the outskirts of downtown Hartford, Charles Lee, 38, said that he had stopped receiving food stamps in March and that he had not known that volunteering was a way to continue getting them.
The loss of the benefits, he said, has imposed another burden in his struggle to survive. "Basically, I have to eat whatever people will give me now," said Mr. Lee, who tries to observe a Muslim diet that prohibits pork and other foods. "When someone is giving you something from their heart, you don't want to complain, but it's not healthy."
Donald Natalie, who had worked five years delivering meals to the elderly, said he was unaware that volunteering would return his monthly food stamps of $120. He said he would try to contact his social worker about it, but did not have a quarter to call her.
"Maybe in a week or so I could do that," he said, explaining that it had been only a few weeks since he had been discharged from a monthlong drug treatment program for his addiction to tranquilizers.
Still, as he sat on a bed in an emergency shelter Friday evening, he did not look ready to do any sort of work. His weight has dropped to 160 pounds from 190 since his food stamps were cut off. The last two weeks were his first in a shelter, and before that he slept in the back seat of his daughter's car. "I don't know whether I can handle the stress of any job," he said. "I feel like I've hit rock bottom and that the food stamps are just icing on the cake."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOOD STAMPS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS FOOD STAMPS (94%); GOVERNORS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997



606 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 2126 words

HEADLINE: A Rich Museum and Its Poor Cousin;
Detroit Institutions Are Entangled in the Politics of Race, Class and Labor

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 27

 BODY:
The Detroit Institute of Arts, the nation's fifth-largest art museum, is crumbling because of financial problems. Strong fences have been built around much of its base because of the imminent risk that sections of the outer walls will fall away from the building's corroded steel frame. Employees place sponges and mop heads just below gallery windows in the museum during snowstorms to catch the condensation dribbling down the single panes of thin glass.
A block away, the same city government that owns the art museum has just finished building the nation's largest museum of black history and culture. The double-paned glass dome over the rotunda at the new Museum of African-American History is specially designed to admit light while keeping the building at a steady temperature and humidity. The museum's outside doors are bronze, and many of the inside doors are mahogany. The towering decorative masks over the main entrances are partly plated with 14-carat gold. 
 The visible contrast between the museums partly reflects the difficulty of raising money to maintain old cultural institutions and the relative ease of fund-raising for new buildings. But behind the contrast also lies a remarkable example of how race, class, labor unions and big-city politics can affect cultural institutions. These issues have echoes in cultural battles in other cities, although seldom are the fights as nasty or as public as they have been in Detroit lately.
When daily management of the Milwaukee Public Museum was transferred to a private group five years ago, community activists unsuccessfully fought the transfer all the way to the Wisconsin Supreme Court. The Detroit art museum tried to follow the Milwaukee museum to private management but failed -- even though the black-history museum has always been privately managed, even as it receives greater city financing.
The tensions in Detroit were most visible during the failed attempt this spring by Mayor Dennis Archer to transfer daily management of the art museum to its mostly suburban benefactors. Those patrons, who already furnish the bulk of the museum's budget and were prepared to donate more, agreed to guarantee the jobs and salaries of all municipal workers at the museum. The museum itself would have remained city property.
But the art museum's 64 unionized janitors, guards and maintenance workers objected vehemently to losing their status as civil servants. The loss of that status would have made them more subject to disciplinary procedures and weakened their bargaining position for future labor contracts.

For the Proletariat, Not the Bourgeoisie
At a tumultuous special session in March, the Detroit City Council ended up siding with the unionized workers and blocking the management transfer. "I am for the proletariat, I am not for the bourgeoisie," declared Kay Everett, the City Council member who held the council's rotating chairmanship during the special session.
Union officials told City Council members that Detroit, the nation's largest city with a black majority, should not transfer control of one of its cultural jewels to a group of mostly white suburban residents. "The race issue was probably made the key role," said Bret A. Ceriotti Sr., the museum's chief union steward, who is white. He also told the council that it would be better to close the museum entirely than give more control to private donors.
But some of the same issues of race and class have helped the black history museum win broad public support. Voters here have approved two bond issues to cover most of the $38.4 million in construction costs.
The ample budget has produced a breathtaking museum, with a core exhibition designed by Ralph Appelbaum, the exhibition expert who also designed the Holocaust Museum in Washington. Like the Holocaust Museum, the black history museum derives its emotional power from photographs, videos and clearly worded explanatory panels.
Yet the black history museum is relatively weak in actual artifacts. Indeed, many of the traditional African masks are on loan from the art museum.
By contrast, the art museum has a remarkable collection of masterpieces, including one of the largest and most famous murals by Diego Rivera, the Mexican muralist. But with money in short supply, there are virtually no signs explaining the context or importance of the artworks.
Two years ago, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York borrowed Fra Angelico's "Annunciatory Angel" from Detroit and sold posters of the painting to commemorate the occasion. The 15th-century Italian Renaissance masterpiece now hangs in an obscure gallery here, ignored by visitors, with a simple label and no text to explain its significance.
The difficulty in raising money for the Detroit art museum results from the Detroit area's unusually deep social, racial and economic divisions. As reported in the 1990 census, the city's median household income, at $18,742, was barely half the national average. By comparison, Oakland County, which encompasses most of Detroit's sprawling northern suburbs, had a median household income of $43,407.
Racial issues also divide the city from the nearly all-white suburbs. The Justice Department files more housing discrimination lawsuits in Detroit's suburbs than anywhere else in the nation, while suburban police officers frequently follow people driving out of the city on residential streets instead of highways. And many city residents distrust white investors from the suburbs.
The art museum has particularly suffered in this climate. Uncertainty about its future has already begun to hurt donations of money and art. Representatives of rival museums across the country have been busily getting in touch with wealthy Michigan collectors, trying to persuade them to leave masterpieces to out-of-town institutions instead.
The latest blow came when Samuel Sachs 2d, the art museum's 62-year-old executive director, announced on May 12 that he would step down on Sept. 1 to become director of the Frick Collection in New York City. Mr. Sachs said that while he was not leaving to protest the City Council's decision, he was tired of the politics.
"There is some self-preservation left in me after 12 years" in Detroit, he said.
The new Museum of African-American History, which was founded in 1965 by a local physician, Dr. Charles Wright, has prospered in this contentious political climate. Coleman Young, the populist black Mayor here from 1974 through 1993, actively promoted the black history museum, while often criticizing the art museum for not exhibiting enough works by black artists.

Construction Costs Paid by the City
The city paid for construction of a large building in the mid-1980's to house Dr. Wright's collection, which is still owned by a nonprofit corporation he set up and which occupies city-owned buildings free of charge. Shortly before leaving office, Mr. Young decided that the city should build the even larger building that opened last month.
Excavation for the new building began immediately, even though architects had not yet come up with a design. A $20 million bond issue for construction was also approved by voters, still without any architect's plans. "We dug a hole and left it there for almost a year," until the design was ready, said Harold R. Varner, the chief architect.
Mr. Young left his more frugal successor, Mayor Archer, with little choice but to finish the project. Mr. Archer ended up spending another $18.4 million in city money to that purpose. Detroit officials have not yet decided what to do with the building that housed the black history museum for 10 years.
Yet even this popular project has not been immune to politics. Several dozen demonstrators picketed the museum when it opened, contending that it gave too much attention to slavery and did not present a sufficiently uplifting portrayal of black history. Callers to local radio stations expressed dismay that a white man, Mr. Appelbaum, played such a large role in designing the museum.
Such political maneuvering is not unique to Detroit, although it has been particularly visible here. Exhibitions on controversial issues, like the Smithsonian Institution's two years ago on the atomic bombing of Japan in 1945, have often attracted controversy themselves. Few experts see a way to avoid such squabbles.

With Public Funds Comes Politics
"Any institution heavily dependent on public funds will inevitably be involved in a political debate," said Sharon F. Patton, an associate professor of art at the University of Michigan and the director of the university's Center for Afro-American and African Studies.
Such disputes tend to be particularly open when they involve the small and shrinking number of museums directly managed by government agencies. While many big museums still receive various forms of aid from local governments, most are now operated by private, nonprofit groups or are owned by universities.
The Detroit Institute of Arts started as a private collection in 1885 and was donated to the city in 1919 by trustees. The city erected a Beaux-Arts granite building on donated land to house the collection, and automobile magnates contributed lavishly. The Ford family paid Rivera to paint one of his largest murals glorifying industrial workers in the museum's huge marble court in 1932.
But the decay of many inner cities in recent decades has put pressure on municipal budgets at the same time that corporate support for the arts has grown. The result has been a move toward private management of big art museums like Detroit's. Among major American art museums, only the San Francisco Museum of Fine Arts has a comparably high level of direct municipal control.
The four art museums in the nation larger than Detroit's -- the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and the Philadelphia Museum of Art -- give donors more influence over the day-to-day management.
The contrast in management structures of the Detroit Institute of Arts and the Museum of African-American History is one reason for their very different fates. While the art museum struggles with its union, the nonprofit group running the black-history museum has been free to pursue much cheaper alternatives. Kimberly Camp, the museum's president, said the nonprofit structure had permitted a streamlined management.
To the dismay of labor officials, the black history museum has contracts with nonunion companies to provide security guards and most maintenance workers. The private guards at the black history museum earn $7 an hour while unionized guards at the art museum earn $11.21 an hour.
The question now for many Detroit-area residents and for art followers around the country is how this tale will end. The black history museum attracted 100,000 visitors in the three weeks after it opened on April 12, even more than its leaders expected, and is receiving a flood of gifts from big corporations like the Ford Motor Company and AT&T.
The future of the art institute is much less clear. Mayor Archer has asked the City Council to find an extra $1.1 million in the fiscal year beginning July 1 to offset a steady reduction in state aid. About $14 million of a $25 million municipal bond issue has not yet been sold but could eventually go toward the $60 million cost of repairing the museum's walls and windows.
Nobody has come up with a solution yet for the museum's biggest problem: a special endowment that provides $8 million of the museum's $30 million operating budget will be exhausted by the middle of next year.
Several City Council members argue that the art museum should be able to raise as much money as a privately run institution. Museum officials counter that benefactors are reluctant to donate money to government agencies.
Maryann Mahaffey, the City Council's president, who voted with Ms. Everett against a transfer of control, said during the council's special session that she believed the museum's $4.9 million "rainy day" fund and other reserves would allow it to continue operations while city officials tried to find a long-term solution.
A few city officials still have hopes of drafting a new plan for greater private involvement in the museum. But with elections in November, the City Council is showing little interest in such an approach.
As Mr. Sachs prepares to move to Manhattan to manage the Frick Collection, he is delighted to be leaving this city's battles behind.
"Politics and art and culture really don't mix very well," he said. "They both may be necessary for a society, but apart from each other they are better, for all parties concerned."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY -- The rotunda, where temperature and humidity are kept steady. DETROIT INSTITUTE OF THE ARTS -- The marble court where Diego Rivera painted one of his largest murals. Kimberly N. Camp, president of the black history museum. Samuel Sachs 2d, the outgoing director of the Institute of Arts. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Two Museums: A Contrast"
The Museum of African-American History has flourished since it opened last month, but the venrable Detroit Institute of Arts is languishing. Chart compares floor space, annual budgets, city subsidies, hours open, and other facts related to the two museums. (Sources: Museum of African American History; Detroit Institute of Arts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS; MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY (DETROIT) MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY (59%); MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS; MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY (DETROIT) MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY (59%); MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BLACKS; LABOR; FINANCES; CULTURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); HISTORY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WEATHER (71%); MAYORS (71%); POLITICS (70%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (64%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



607 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Registers Broad Gains, Aided by U.S. Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose broadly yesterday on a mix of healthy United States economic data, heightened prospects for a weak single European currency and remarks by Switzerland's top banker that caused a selloff in the Swiss franc.
The buying pushed the dollar to the highest level against the mark in more than a week and the highest against the yen in nearly two weeks. 
 "The dollar, after some weeks of consolidation, looks like it's coming back a bit," said Earl I. Johnson, foreign-exchange economist at the Bank of Montreal's Chicago branch.
In New York, the dollar settled at 116.68 yen, up from 115.66 yen on Friday and 116.43 yen on Monday in Europe. The dollar rose to 1.7055 marks, from 1.6935 marks on Friday, and 1.6901 marks on Monday in Europe. The pound fell to $1.6316, from $1.6345 on Friday, and $1.6405 Monday in Europe. Financial markets in the two largest centers for currency trading -- London and New York -- were closed on Monday for national holidays.
Much of the dollar's gain came in European dealings after Hans Meyer, president of the Swiss National Bank, confirmed it was pumping money into the system to counter an unwanted rise in the Swiss franc.
The uncertainties created by the French elections and plans for a single European currency in 1999 have raised demand for the Swiss franc in recent days as a haven. Switzerland is not a participant in the single currency, the euro.
"We will remain vigilant and if necessary counter" a development in the currency market that threatens economic recovery, Mr. Meyer said. A strong currency tends to impede economic growth by making exports less competitive.
"The Swiss economy isn't doing very well at all, so they don't want a strong currency at this juncture," said John Hazelton, chief currency trader at the Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company in New York. "The only thing they can do is ease monetary policy and provide as much money as they can."
The dollar rose to 1.4212 Swiss francs in New York trading, up from 1.4032 Friday, and 1.4008 Monday in Europe.
The dollar was further helped by a surprisingly large gain in the Conference Board's monthly survey of consumer sentiment in the United States, which rose to a 28-year high in May. The survey results were viewed as a strong inducement for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates at its meeting on July 1 and 2. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (71%); BMO (NYSE) (71%); SNBN (SWX) (68%); MTB (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION BANK OF MONTREAL (71%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (68%); M&T BANK CORP (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; SWITZERLAND; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MEYER, HANS BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



608 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Index Soars; Home Resales Off

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose to a 28-year high in May, the Conference Board said yesterday. A separate economic report showed that home resales fell more than expected in April as borrowing costs continued to creep up.
The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence increased to 127.1 in May, above analysts' expectations, from April's reading, which was revised upward to 118.5 from the previous estimate of 116.8. 
 An index gauging consumer expectations for the next six months rose to 110.3, from a revised 103.2 in April, while an index tracking consumers' assessment of present conditions jumped to 152.2 from a revised 141.6.
With the economy continuing to create jobs as stocks set records, consumers remain confident about the economy and about their economic prospects, analysts said. That means they should continue to spend. Consumer outlays account for two-thirds of economic activity over all.
"There's no doubt that unemployment at 4.9 percent and the stock market at record highs were the ingredients for this high consumer confidence," said Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in New York. "This indicates consumers will continue to spend, which will keep pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise rates again."
Earlier this month, policy makers at the Federal Reserve voted to leave interest rates unchanged, betting that the economy was slowing sufficiently to avert a resurgence of inflation. They had raised rates earlier in the year.
Analysts have said that the Federal Reserve may still feel compelled to raise rates again this year, perhaps at its next monetary policy meeting in July. They said the decision this month not to raise rates was driven by evidence that economic growth had moderated substantially from the 5.6 percent rate of the first quarter, as well as by reports showing that inflation was almost nonexistent at the producer level and subdued at the consumer level.
In yesterday's report, the Conference Board said fewer respondents than last month expected their incomes to rise over the next six months. The index showing expectations for higher incomes slipped to 22.5 in May from 23.6 in April. The indexes measuring plans to buy a home, automobile or major appliances over the next six months all fell.
In the report on home resales, the National Association of Realtors said resales fell 2.4 percent in April, exceeding forecasts, to an annual rate of 4.060 million. During March, resales decreased a revised 1.7 percent, to an annual rate of 4.16 million. The March total was originally estimated as a 2.8 percent drop.
The figures represent closings on resales, which lag behind contract signings by a few months. Resales make up about 85 percent of all single-family home sales.
"Buyers are just cooling their heels," said Alan Day, vice president of the Stratevest Group in Burlington, Vt. He said he expected sales to increase in months ahead as low unemployment, strong consumer confidence and continued stock market gains pushed more buyers into the market.
Resales rose 3.1 percent in the Northeast during April, to a 660,000 annual rate, but fell 3.9 percent in the South, to 1.47 million, and 6.1 percent in the West, to 920,000. They were unchanged in the Midwest, at 1.01 million.
Experts differ about whether home resales, and the housing market as a whole, can remain close to the record levels of last year and 1997's first quarter or whether demand for houses will slow as the year progresses.
Those who bet demand will slow cite a declining rate of household formation, a lack of pent-up demand and consumer debt burdens. They also note that mortgage rates increased by more than half a percentage point between February and April.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 8.14 percent in April from 7.90 percent in March. That put the average principal and interest payment on a $100,000 loan at $743.55 last month, up from $726.81 in March. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (68%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



609 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Send Beijing a Message

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Mike Mansfield, the great Senate majority leader after Lyndon Johnson, offered an amendment every year to draw down American forces in Europe. President Nixon and the foreign-policy establishment regularly denounced it as isolationist.
Once, after a meeting with legislative leaders in the Cabinet Room, Nixon drew Mansfield aside to say: "Stick with that amendment of yours. I use it all the time to keep the Europeans in line." 
 The threat of Congressional action redirecting U.S. foreign policy has been used by Presidents skilled in quiet diplomacy. Their message to foreign leaders: If you don't make some concessions to American opinion, I won't be able to restrain my irresponsible legislators. Now here's how we can stop them . . .
Bill Clinton doesn't seem to get the hang of that in dealing with China. On the advice of business executives, and after the personal urging of Indonesia's James Riady, Clinton threw away his economic leverage. Ever since he flip-flopped -- not only betraying human rights supporters but ignoring China's arming of Iran -- he has been all give and no take.
His pre-emptive concession in 1994 on low tariffs was based on the new China lobby's assurances that free trade would lead toward free enterprise and freedom of expression.
But the result of three years' appeasement was drearily expressed in the State Department's latest report: "All public dissent . . . was effectively silenced by intimidation, exile, the imposition of prison terms. . . . No dissidents were known to be active at year's end."
Clinton's open-doormat policy is a failure. China rings up sales in our market, strengthening its army's grip at home, while the White House wrings its hands.
Now the House of Representatives is considering the resumption of leverage. Last year it voted 2 to 1 to approve an extension of most-favored-nation status; this year the vote will be much closer.
That's because China's assault on U.S. interests has created a remarkable coalition here. On the left, unions resisting free trade join liberals defending human rights and the integrity of Tibet to demand pressure on China. On the right, anti-Communist hard-liners find themselves linked with the Christian Coalition and Catholic bishops who oppose religious persecution and forced abortion.
As a result, the heat is on Congress to act as "tough cop" to Clinton's "nice cop." The House's Democratic leader, Dick Gephardt, denounces "free-market Stalinism" while the Republican leader, Dick Armey, publicly agonizes at switching from his M.F.N. support last year. Lawmakers have a free shot at voting their consciences and their constituencies because they know the Senate will not override a Clinton veto.
Let the House send Beijing a message. A vote against extending M.F.N. would strengthen the President's wet noodle of a hand and would not, this year at least, impose higher tariffs or harm the economy of Hong Kong.
Congress can further strengthen Clinton's hand in this paradoxical way: by pursuing investigations into Chinese penetration of the White House and influence on our elections.
Asians set great store by "face." We are constantly reminded how any attempt to impose the value of freedom, or to restrain the arming of rogue states, would be taken as a terrible insult to the pride of China's new leaders.
But what about American face? If it is shown that Lippo, Huang, Trie & Co., in cahoots with the Beijing arms dealer and White House visitor Wang Jun, tried to manipulate U.S. policy and elections, should we not take umbrage at that insult?
While warning us loudly not to interfere in its internal affairs, China was secretly interfering in America's internal affairs. Chinese spokesmen deny everything. But Zhou Enlai's heirs are highly sophisticated diplomats and intelligence agents. They know we have tapes of taps on their Los Angeles consulate that show unlawful political fund-raising activity. They know these could be declassified and played at a Senate hearing or at the U.N.
Prepare to take diplomatic offense, Mr. President. Let Beijing know we will accept a "rogue operation" excuse, but only if accompanied by cooperation with the F.B.I., human rights gestures and restraint on arms sales. Otherwise, the nice-cop President won't be able to control that tough-cop Congress on low tariffs next time around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (79%); TIBET (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (79%); TIBET (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ARMIES (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM RICHARD NIXON (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



610 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Leader Blames U.S. For Poor Ties

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, May 27

 BODY:
In his first extended remarks since winning a landslide victory last week, Iran's newly elected President, Mohammed Khatami, blamed the United States today for two decades of animosity and said that Washington held the key to improving ties.
"We are sorry to see that the United States' policy has always been hostile to our revolution," said President-elect Khatami, a moderate whose stunning upset victory reflected rising dissatisfaction with Iran's ruling clerics. 
 He said that any warming of relations with Washington would depend on observable changes in America's attitude toward Iran. "But unfortunately we have not seen anything," he said. "Therefore, the key to the problem is in their hands and not ours."
Political experts have described Mr. Khatami's election as a turning point in Iran's revolution, raising some expectation that he might moderate the Islamic republic's policies toward the West.
But the stance taken today by Mr. Khatami did not differ radically from the usual hard line taken by other Iranian officials. And it was close to that of the departing President, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, whom Mr. Khatami will replace in August.
It was not as uncompromising, however, as some of the positions taken by Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has the final say over changes in Iranian policy and has rejected improving ties with Washington.
Senior United States officials with President Clinton at a NATO summit meeting in Paris insisted today that Iran must first change its policies before it could expect any changes in the longstanding American campaign to isolate it.
"The things that concern us and trouble us about Iran's behavior in the world need to change for us to think more liberally about Iran's role in the international community," said the White House spokesman, Mike McCurry. "And there's no evidence that we see of any change in the fundamental policies of that regime."
The United States has imposed economic sanctions on Iran, accusing it of sponsoring terrorism, pursuing nuclear arms and supporting efforts to wreck the Middle East peace efforts.
Mr. Khatami dismissed the charges of Iranian involvement in international terrorism. But he said Iran opposed the Middle East peace effort, while making it clear that Teheran would not take any action to disrupt it.
He also took a hard line toward Israel, accusing it of state terrorism.
On domestic issues, Mr. Khatami said the time was ripe to insure more democracy in Iran but insisted this had to be done while defending the Islamic Government from enemies.
He said Iran was stable enough and had recovered sufficiently from its war with Iraq in the 1980's to begin guaranteeing its 60 million citizens full constitutional rights, including free thought, life, employment, assembly and association.
"We hope to gradually witness a more legal society," he said, "with more clearly defined rights and duties for citizens and the Government."
The remarks seemed likely to arouse opposition among conservatives, even though Mr. Khatami was careful to clarify that he was advocating changes only within Iran's existing system of Islamic Government.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN (88%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN (88%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WITNESSES (76%); RELIGION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TERRORISM (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); IRAQ WAR (61%); 

PERSON: KHATAMI, MOHAMMED BILL CLINTON (79%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



611 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Congress Wages War on Free Trade

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management and former Under Secretary of Commerce in the first Clinton Administration, is author of "The Big Ten: The Big Emerging Markets and How They Will Change Our Lives.".

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
The struggle between the Clinton Administration and Congress over renewing China's most-favored-nation trading status is a symptom of a much larger problem with American trade policy.
That is the growing tendency of Congress to use trade sanctions to pursue non-economic goals, including protecting human rights, improving conditions for foreign workers, safeguarding the environment, stopping illegal drug trafficking and curtailing nuclear weapons sales. Yes, these are worthy goals, but using trade sanctions to try to achieve them will only backfire. 
 Trade has never been more crucial to national well-being. Exports have accounted for nearly a third of our economic growth in the 1990's, and some 12 million people owe their jobs to sales of American products abroad.
Yet the Administration's legal authority to conclude major trade negotiations has expired, and Congress won't renew it. The reason: The House and Senate cannot resolve whether the President's trade negotiators should be obligated to tie environmental and labor standards to all commercial accords. Thus the Administration cannot, for example, pursue the creation of free trade areas in Latin America and Asia -- two of the President's highest priorities.
Congress, pursuing other foreign policy goals, has also broadened its use of unilateral sanctions, including embargoes on Cuba (to try to force the collapse of the Castro Government) and Iran (to express outrage against terrorism). In the case of the most-favored-nation fight over China, it's no longer just the usual human rights concerns that critics are bringing up, but also complaints (fueled largely by the religious right) over Beijing's policies on birth control and its crackdown on unregistered evangelical churches.
So why won't trade sanctions help? First, Europe and Japan steadfastly refuse to join us in using trade as a lever; instead, they merrily conclude their own commercial deals, such as ongoing French investments in Iran's oil production. By imposing sanctions unilaterally, we only incur resentment among the countries we want to influence, and we undercut our own companies, which are increasingly standard-bearers of American values and influence.
If Congress continues to use trade sanctions as a weapon, the United States will forfeit its leadership in the cause for open global markets. Just look at South America, where Brazil is now trying to build a gigantic trade bloc along with Argentina, Chile and others, without American participation. Or watch how Japan is spinning a commercial web from Seoul to Jakarta while Washington ties itself in knots over whether to let the President negotiate more trade agreements.
As billions of new consumers enter the world economy for the first time, trade will be ever more important to American living standards. The big emerging markets -- China, India, Indonesia, Turkey, Mexico and Brazil -- are growing two to three times faster than Europe and Japan. Already the United States exports more to the top 10 emerging markets than to Europe and Japan combined.
Our fastest-growing trading partners are the very countries that present the biggest human rights and security concerns: Why would we want to cut off our influence with them now?
The Administration and Congress should face the reality that not every national goal -- whether it be trade or military security or human rights -- can receive the same attention; nor is every objective equally important to our broad national interests. In most cases, commercial diplomacy should be the leading edge of our foreign policy, because free trade creates private wealth and opens ties between American and foreign businessmen. These ties can create pressure for more democracy and encourage foreign governments to loosen controls on their societies. This has happened in South Korea, for example.
To relieve the pressure to link trade to other objectives, we need credible global policies on human rights, labor standards, weapons sales and environmental protection. One approach is for Washington to help put teeth into United Nations agencies like as the International Labor Organization, which monitors treatment of workers worldwide but lacks the power to condemn countries with egregious labor practices.
Moreover, if the United States would substitute diplomatic pressure for economic sanctions to punish countries whose policies we most strongly oppose, we might find that Europe and Japan will be more willing to do the same.
Washington should also enlist American businesses, and powerful industry associations like the Business Roundtable and the National Association of Manufacturers. American companies have so far have been too hesitant to adopt higher standards for treatment of employees overseas and to invest in schools, hospitals and other community projects where they do business. After all, they have the most to lose if Congress continues its heavy-handed ways.
Trade has the potential to expose emerging nations to those values Americans hold highest. Linking trade to so many other foreign policy goals will insure that we lose on all accounts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); RELIGION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



612 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Money Doesn't Buy Test Scores, Studies Say

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
In ordering New Jersey to equalize school spending by giving more to poor districts earlier this month, the New Jersey Supreme Court made the common-sense assumption that money is a key to improving inner-city education.
But current education research suggests that unless new money is put into specific programs like math enrichment or budgeted toward specific goals like reducing the size of kindergarten classes, it is likely to be absorbed in salaries or bricks and mortar, which generate little direct gain in student achievement. 
 "Money, of course, buys things," said Chris Pipho, a spokesman for the Education Commission of the States, a public policy and research organization based in Denver. "What complicates matters is that it may be bamboozled away."
The New Jersey ruling declared that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's plan to improve urban schools by emphasizing curriculum changes instead of spending is unconstitutional. It will result in an extra $1,000 or so per pupil for the poorest districts, for a total of roughly $250 million in extra state spending next year.
The court, in its 5-to-1 majority opinion, asserted that the money would make a difference. "Real achievement still depends on the sufficiency of educational resources," Associate Justice Alan B. Handler wrote. But what seems obvious to jurists is a matter of bitter contention among academic researchers. Economists, sociologists and statisticians have been wrestling with the question for a quarter-century, decades in which declining urban school systems have been suing their states (including New Jersey) to correct spending imbalances.
The most comprehensive survey to date of the links between spending and student performance -- an analysis of several hundred independent studies by Eric Hanushek, an economist at the University of Rochester -- found no consistent evidence that more money beyond a certain level of spending led to higher achievement on standardized tests.
But other specialists point to a handful of experiments that they say prove extra dollars do matter. One such experiment is Project STAR in Tennessee. Researchers have long been intrigued by findings from Tennessee's ambitious controlled experiment in which about 11,000 children in kindergarten through third grade were randomly assigned either to large classes (22 to 25 students) or small ones (13 to 17 students) during the mid-1980's.
Alan Krueger, a Princeton University researcher, found that the first year a child was assigned to a small class, his or her score on standardized tests rose sharply. Thereafter, though, the gains from the smaller class were marginal. "It's worth the money to get kids ready for learning," Mr. Krueger concluded.
When pressed, most researchers agree that the states could buy better schools, provided the resources are carefully budgeted for what works rather than what administrators, teachers and parents want.
"Money is necessary," said Frank Levy, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "but it is never sufficient."
He and others point with optimism to the national school standards movement and support setting tangible goals, backing the effort with cash and rewarding teachers and administrators. "Money tied to standards can really have some leverage," Mr. Levy said.
The intellectual debate over school finances really began with the sociologist James Coleman's 1966 report, "Equality of Educational Opportunity." Mr. Coleman found that wide variations in school spending did not have any systematic impact on reading and math scores.
"Coleman was really surprised, as were others," recalled Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
In 1986, Mr. Hanushek picked up the work by surveying hundreds of research papers that studied whether money affected student achievement. His conclusion: not really.
He updated the work three years ago, and found similar results. A few studies suggested a link between student achievement and smaller class size, but there was almost no link with teacher salaries, teacher experience and outlays per pupil.
Mr. Hanushek's analysis has been challenged, notably by Larry Hedges of the University of Chicago's Department of Education.
Crude counts of success or failure to find returns to investments in education are misleading, Mr. Hedges argued, because the studies amount to apples and oranges. Reanalyzing the results, but weighting each study according to sample size and the statistical certainty of the conclusions, he estimated that a $500 increase in spending per student would increase scores by several percentage points. That translates into a $25 billion spending increase for the nation's 51.2 million schoolchildren -- the equivalent of a 10 percent raise in the nation's current public education spending of $244 billion.
Investing scarce education dollars where they would do the most good is difficult, Mr. Levy said. For even when educators quietly agree on the best use of extra money, there may be political pressures to spend it in other ways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); EDUCATION COMMISSION OF THE STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESEARCH SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CITIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



613 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Interpublic invests in an Internet provider aimed at 'the transition generation' of young adults.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE Interpublic Group of Companies is expanding its presence in the realm of on-line advertising by investing in Tripod Inc., an innovative interactive marketing and media company that focuses primarily on consumers in their 20's.
Interpublic, the world's third-largest agency company, is spending about $2.5 million for an estimated 10 percent stake in Tripod, a five-year-old enterprise based in Williamstown, Mass. Tripod's operations include a Web site, at www://tripod.com; a magazine, Tools for Life, distributed with the Prentice Hall textbooks sold on campuses by Viacom Inc., and Student Advantage, a card offering discounts on goods and services in travel, entertainment and other fields. The operations all specialize in what Tripod describes on its home page as "the transition generation, young adults who are moving from college to the workplace." 
 The investment by Interpublic, which owns giant agency networks like McCann-Erickson Worldwide and Lowe Group, is part of a $10 million infusion of additional financing for Tripod from investors that also include the Rho Management Company, a venture capital firm, and Cowen & Company, an investment bank that helped bring Interpublic and Tripod to each other's attention.
The deal is emblematic of how the huge agency companies that dominate Madison Avenue are staking claims in cyberspace through investments in independent companies as well as by supporting internal start-ups.
That strategy offers as many risks as it does rewards. For instance, although Interpublic has profited handsomely from an investment in CKS Group, a joint venture with the Infusion Com Corporation that was formed in November went sour as Infusion Com filed for Federal bankruptcy protection four months later.
"You can't bat 1.000," said Barry R. Linsky, senior vice president for planning and business development at Interpublic in New York.
"It's learning on the fly, like shooting at a moving target," he added. "The trick is to manage your exposure and therefore your risk."
Mr. Linsky discussed the Tripod agreement -- the first giving Interpublic a stake in what is known as an Internet content provider -- in a telephone interview yesterday. Details of the deal are scheduled to be announced today.
"We're looking for opportunities where we can be a strategic investor, not a passive investor," he said, "and for ventures that will enable us to pass insights to our agencies and our clients."
Interpublic executives began meeting with Tripod managers around Labor Day last year, Mr. Linsky recalled.
"The more we understood what they were doing," he said, "the greater appreciation we had for what they were about: building an interactive destination with an orientation for a young audience, the so-called Generation X that's important to a lot of advertisers but not easy to reach." Those consumers, at the heart of the 18-to-34-year-old demographic segment, are among the most desirable because they are acquisitive and in the embryonic stages of forming brand preferences.
The Tripod Web site is divided into content sections that bear headings like "Work and Money," "Living and Travel," "TriTeca" and "Daily Scoop." Among Tripod's service offerings are resume writing, job hunting and helping younger computer users create home pages.
"People in this generation are living in a fundamentally different reality than people 10 or 15 years ago," said Bo Peabody, 26, chief executive of Tripod. "It's a much scarier, less secure environment in which mutual funds and condoms are as important as music and sports.
"When they now come out of college, it's an entrepreneurial, do-it-yourself culture," he added. "You have to be savvy, and a little bit cagey, about your life. And they see the Web, with its 'infotainment' and 'edutainment,' becoming a medium with which to solve their problems."
Tripod's advertisers include the AT& T Worldnet Service of the AT& T Corporation, Amtrak, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, the Fidelity mutual funds sold by the FMR Corporation, the Ford Motor Company, Mastercard, Northwest Airlines, the Sony Corporation and Visa.
"We obviously think Interpublic can be a big help to us in the advertising community," Mr. Peabody said.
"One of our mantras is 'Know what you don't know,' " he added. "While we may know the audience, and the technology to build communities on line, we may not know some of the relationship-building that goes on in an industry like that."
Mr. Peabody founded Tripod along with Brett Hershey, a classmate of his at Williams College, and Richard Sabot, an economics professor there. Tripod now has 40 employees: 36 in Williamstown and 4 in New York.
The $10 million from the investors including Interpublic compares with the "almost exactly $4 million we've spent up until now," Mr. Peabody said, from investors like New Enterprises Associates, a leading venture capital firm. Mr. Peabody predicted that Tripod would become profitable in the first quarter of 1998.
Gil Fuchsberg, director for new media and technologies at Interpublic, will become one of five members of the Tripod board. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); VIA (NASDAQ) (71%); COWN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (71%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; TRIPOD INC INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); TRIPOD INC (91%); VIACOM INC (71%); COWEN GROUP INC (68%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; TRIPOD INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GENERATION X (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); JOINT VENTURES (56%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



614 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Slip as Traders Await Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell yesterday, pushing the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond above the psychologically important level of 7 percent for the first time in nearly a month.
Prices edged lower as nervous investors adjusted their holdings in anticipation of economic data scheduled for release this week, including reports on durable goods and gross domestic product, that are expected to be negative. 
 Another factor weighing on prices were the actions of securities dealers who were preparing for Treasury note auctions, beginning today with a two-year issue and ending tomorrow with a five-year maturity. Dealers will typically cause yields to rise ahead of an auction to make securities that much more attractive to investors, making for quicker distribution.
The 30-year bond fell 15/32, to a price of 95 2/32 to yield 7.02 percent, up from 6.98 percent on Friday. The yield last ended at more than 7 percent on April 28, when it was 7.11 percent. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions.
Economic data released yesterday included the consumer confidence figures for May. The report, by the Conference Board, showed that the level of confidence has risen to a 28-year high; that is a negative for bonds because it suggests continued consumer spending and possible inflation, which could erode the value of long-term investments like bonds.
Also released were data on existing housing sales, which fell, as expected, to an annualized rate of 4.06 million units in April from 4.16 million in March. Even though the number is lower, the trend in housing remains strong.
Greg Jones, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Menlo Park, Calif., noted that yields were now higher than they were before last week's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, at which interest rates were left unchanged.
"The market's confidence in the Fed has clearly suffered a blow, as bond yields have risen sharply in the wake of Fed inaction," Mr. Jones said. A strong reading in the consumer-confidence report, he added, "highlights the risk of inaction, and argues for a tightening" when Fed policy makers next meet in July.
Trading in the Treasury market thinned in the afternoon, with little impetus for buyers.
"The market found it difficult to simply shrug off the firmer confidence measures especially because they confirmed the trend reflected in the preliminary University of Michigan consumer sentiment figures released a week ago," said Anthony Chan, chief economist for the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio.
"With two confidence numbers telling us that the consumer may be back again in the second and third quarters, it is hard to keep faith in the consensus view that expects a major slowing in economic growth in the second quarter," Mr. Chan said. "Besides, with strength in both the current and future components of this index, investors were not able to look the other way and assume that much of this strength might simply dissipate within a month or two."
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction yesterday, rates were down but demand was not as good as many had expected. The rate for a three-month bill dropped to 5.03 percent, from 5.17 percent a week earlier; the rate for a six-month issue fell to 5.26 percent, from 5.35 percent.
In when-issued trading ahead of today's auction, the two-year maturity was being offered at a price to yield 6.30 percent, while the five-year was offered at a price to yield 6.62 percent for tomorrow's auction.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.729	97.326	Discounted Rate	5.03%	5.26%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.48%	High Price	98.731	97.331	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.25%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.47%	Low Price	98.729	97.321	Discounted Rate	5.03%	5.27%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.49%	Accepted at low price	55%	19%	Total applied for	$38,991,542	$43,737,122	Accepted	$7,553,476	$7,534,682	Noncompetitive	$1,377,044	$1,072,757	
 
Both issues are dated May 29, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Aug. 28, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Nov. 28, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); BRIEFING.COM (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



615 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: William Cunningham, a Guardian of the Poor, Dies at 67

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 27

 BODY:
The Rev. William T. Cunningham, a Roman Catholic priest who became a leading Detroit civil rights advocate and founder of one of the nation's largest programs to feed and train the urban poor, died here on Monday. He was 67.
The cause was pneumonia and a liver infection that followed his treatment for gallbladder cancer, which had spread to the liver and lymph nodes, said Robert P. Schweers, a spokesman for the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute. 
 It was Detroit's race riots, the nation's bloodiest of the 1960's, that prompted Father Cunningham to found his nonprofit civic organization, called Focus: Hope. Starting with just a few high school students as volunteers, he built the group into a sprawling enterprise that distributes food to 47,500 poor people a month and trains more than a thousand mostly black youths each year to become engineers and factory technicians.
Focus: Hope now has 800 employees, thousands of volunteers and an annual budget of $71 million. It even operates its own factory, which serves as a training ground but also sells auto parts used by Detroit's Big Three, including engine intake manifolds on the Ford Tauruses driven by millions of Americans. Among the factory program's many prominent admirers are President Clinton and former President George Bush, each of whom visited the plant while in office.
The General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation all became active supporters of Focus: Hope, although Father Cunningham periodically criticized the auto industry until the end of his life for not doing even more to promote racial harmony. Speaking at a conference of almost 1,000 executives from auto makers and auto parts manufacturers last August, he denounced the scarcity of blacks in his audience.
William Thomas Cunningham, a Detroit native, began his studies for the priesthood at Sacred Heart Seminary here and continued them at St. John's Provincial Seminary in the nearby community of Plymouth. He was ordained in 1955.
Later he taught English literature, notably Chaucer, at a local Catholic high school. He wore a leather jacket, sometimes used salty language and rode a big Harley-Davidson motorcycle, said Carl J. Bidleman, who was one of the first high school students to join Focus: Hope as a volunteer and is now a video production expert in San Francisco.
Father Cunningham's life was changed in July 1967, when he saw clouds of dark smoke rising from burning neighborhoods a few blocks from the school, signaling the onset of race riots that would last a week and leave more than 40 people dead, 2,000 injured and 5,000 homeless.
During the following school year, when many other whites were stockpiling guns and food for a possible renewal of rioting, he began working with his students and neighborhood leaders to promote racial harmony and relieve poverty.
After gathering donations of food and clothing for riot victims, he began looking for more permanent sources of assistance. He was one of the first to persuade the Agriculture Department to donate large quantities of stockpiled food to the indigent in big cities. Focus: Hope still distributes Agriculture Department commodities to 20,500 low-income mothers and children each month and, in another program, provides a monthly food supplement to 27,000 elderly poor.
When foreign competition and high interest rates in the early 1980's forced auto makers to close many of their huge factories here, shattering Detroit's economy, Father Cunningham began spending most of his time on job training programs. He enlisted the support of city leaders, who provided grants, and auto executives, who gave money and expertise and began hiring the programs' graduates even in a weak job market.
"He was the son of a real estate developer," Mr. Bidleman said. "He could pull deals together."
Talented inner-city high school students can now enter Focus: Hope's intensive seven-week summer course in manufacturing skills like math. And successful summer students can go on to the organization's Machinist Training Institute, for a full-year course in precision machining.
Many of these students are hired away before they complete the course, because manufacturers in the area are desperate for skilled industrial workers, who can earn as much as $70,000 a year with overtime. But students who finish the course are eligible to pursue a bachelor's degree in engineering at the Center for Advanced Technologies, which Focus: Hope runs in conjunction with six local universities.
For years, Father Cunningham was critical of the Catholic Church in the Detroit area for not taking a greater role in encouraging mostly white parishes to work with mostly black parishes to prevent racial violence. The church has since become very active in trying to help the inner city, and the archdiocese has kept its offices downtown even as many businesses have moved out to the suburbs.
Adam Cardinal Maida, the Archibishop of Detroit since 1990, said in a telephone interview today that Father Cunningham's dynamic personality and deep religious convictions had given him a rare ability to bring people together. "He was able to do things, because of the credibility he had in the community, that other priests and maybe even the church leadership couldn't do," Cardinal Maida said.
Father Cunningham is survived by a sister, Betty Horning of Dryden, Mich., a Detroit suburb.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. William T. Cunningham. (Associated Press, 1996) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); RIOTS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); PNEUMONIA (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); BUDGETS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: CUNNINGHAM, WILLIAM T (REV); BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



616 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR NATO: IN RUSSIA;
From Public, a Collective Ho-Hum

SERIES: EXPANDING ALLIANCE: Russian Voices

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 27

 BODY:
Seeking to defend the new accord with NATO he signed today in Paris, President Boris N. Yeltsin is telling voters that he still opposes the expansion of the Western alliance and is trying to minimize the threat to Russia.
But try explaining that to Dimitri Beletsri, the 34-year-old manager of an electronics store. "Actually, I have not seen any threat from the West since I graduated from school and the brainwashing stopped," he said today. "Personally, I see a much greater danger in the incompetence of our leaders. Our tax policy encourages crime and corruption. That is the real threat to our country." 
 For all the storm and fury that NATO expansion has generated among the politicians, much of the Russian public has so far greeted the debate with a collective yawn.
Public opinion surveys taken before Mr. Yeltsin agreed to sign the accord indicated that few Russians were happy about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's decision to expand. But they also indicated that the issue ranked relatively low on the average citizen's list of concerns, already dominated by more pressing worries over unpaid wages, taxes and crime.
The schism between the NATO-bashing of Russia's political elite and relative indifference of much of the public reflects the deep distrust many Russians have of their leaders and of the news media, which are increasingly viewed as a captive of special interests.
The gap also has important consequences for Western policy makers. It reduces the risk that an anti-reform demagogue will rise to power because of a popular backlash over NATO expansion. The concern that NATO expansion will cause the West to "lose" Russia is not well supported by the polls. Nationalist politicians will continue to try to stir up anti-NATO sentiment as the Parliament debates the accord in the weeks ahead. And much will depend on whether NATO and Russia manage to form a constructive working relationship as sketched out in the agreement signed today.
But the temperate public response to date does not mean that NATO expansion will be cost-free. In the nascent Russian democracy, it is Russia's political establishment, not the public, that decides national security issues.
NATO expansion has jeopardized the Parliament's ratification of the Start 2 strategic arms treaty, a high American priority. It has also forced the Clinton Administration to use up political capital with Moscow that might have been expended on other Russian-American issues, such as arms control and dealing with weapons proliferation.
"In general, this is not such a serious problem for rank and file Russians, especially as compared to such problems as wages and Yeltsin's health," said Yuri A. Levada, the director of the Russian Center for Public Opinion and Market Research. "The politicians' speech is quite another thing."
The politicians' bombast over NATO expansion is discounted by many Russians as an effort to pander to nationalists or distract attention from economic ills, polling experts say. Russians worry about foreign adversaries, but are more likely to see them in Afghanistan or Chechnya than in the West.
But in the Foreign Ministry meeting rooms NATO still summons up ghosts for Russia's ruling elite.
Throughout the cold war, the West saw the alliance as a defensive organization, resolute but extremely cautious. But Russian leaders viewed NATO as the latest in a long list of foreign foes that have sought to encircle Russia. NATO's plan to expand was another humiliation.
The Russian news media have often echoed the official anxiety. A recent Russian news service dispatch noted the vow of Russian prostitutes in Crimea not to offer their services to NATO sailors. It ran under the headline: Women of Easy Virtue to Show Patriotism.
But after concluding that he could not block NATO's decision, Mr. Yeltsin sought to fend off its hard-line critics by negotiating a face-saving agreement. Some of Mr. Yeltsin's bitterest rivals, like Aleksandr I. Lebed, the ousted security adviser and presidential hopeful, have denounced the accord as a sell-out.
Many politicians, however, basically accept Mr. Yeltsin's argument that the accord makes the best of a bad situation.
While the politicians squabble, much of the Russian public has tuned out the debate. Russian public opinion surveys indicate that about 40 percent of Russians polled oppose NATO plans to admit Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary into the alliance.
That is more than twice as many as support NATO enlargement, but it is still a relatively modest percentage given decades of anti-NATO propaganda and Russia's tradition of suspicion of foreigners. The largest percentage of those polled do not have an opinion or do not care.
The percentage of those opposed increases when Russians are asked about their attitude of NATO expanding to include former Soviet republics, such as Ukraine or the Baltic states. NATO has not excluded this possibility, but it is also not currently considering such steps.
Significantly, the percentage of those opposed has changed little in recent months, despite the drumbeat of anti-NATO statements by the politicians.
"The public sees the struggle against NATO expansion from a skeptical viewpoint," the Public Opinion Foundation, a Russian polling organization, concluded in a recent analysis of its results.
According to a February survey conducted by the foundation, only 18 percent of those polled believed the Government's opposition to NATO expansion was "an attempt to protect Russia from the West." Another 14 percent believed that the leaders' real concern was "fear of losing control over Russia's former allies."
By contrast, 38 percent saw the politicians' attack on NATO expansion as a bargaining tactic to get more foreign aid, an attempt to divert attention from economic problems or an effort to score political points at home.
Significantly, a sizable number of those surveyed, about 30 percent, offered no opinion at all.
Public opinion also split along generational and occupational lines. The younger and more successful strata of Russian society was less concerned with NATO expansion than the elderly and those who work in military industries. But NATO expansion has already aggravated the suspicions of an older generation and of the military, which was already wary of free market changes and nostalgic for Soviet days.
Valentin A. Tarasov, a 63-year-old pensioner, said: "I think NATO affects the life of everybody in this country. I don't think America cares that much about us. We will have to pay back everything they give us now." While Moscow is not always representative of attitudes throughout Russia, the polls do not show enormous regional variation. Russians who live in small villages are the least likely to have an opinion.
"NATO doesn't affect my life," said Elizabeth V. Apakinfieve, a 22-year-old soft drink seller. "I don't even know what it is. I don't think people won't drink soda whatever happens in politics."
Russia's new power elite insists that NATO expansion will still have consequences.
"It is the elites who define routine defense and security policy," said Alexei Arbatov, a Member of Parliament who belongs to the liberal Yabloko faction. "It is not public opinion. That's important only during elections and referendums."
One possible casualty is the Start 2 treaty to slash long-range nuclear arms. Mr. Yeltsin has vowed to work for its ratification by the Communist-dominated Parliament, but top Kremlin officials said it was a difficult fight and that NATO expansion had not helped.
Still, Yeltsin officials said the Kremlin had no interest in trying to appease nationalists by undertaking military countermeasures, such as establishing bases in Belarus.
The Kremlin has, however, pursued deeper integration with Belarus to make NATO expansion easier to swallow by giving the impression that Russia is also strengthening its political influence with the remnants of the Soviet empire.
Many Russians are looking for a piece of the economic pie, not to recover Russia's great power status.
"To tell you the truth I cannot understand why NATO still exists?" said Aleksandr I. Chernetsky, 25, an official at one of Moscow's new commercial banks. "But the main thing I care about is my family. After that, it's business. Only then do I care about politics. As for our politicians, they only care about themselves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth V. Apakinfieve, a 22-year-old soft drink seller, above, says, "NATO doesn't affect my life." But Valentin A. Tarasov, a 63-year-old pensioner, takes the opposite view: "I think NATO affects the life of everybody in this country. I don't think America cares that much about us." (James Hill for The New York Times)
 
Graph/Chart: "PUBLIC OPINION -- NATO Expansion: The View From Russia"
A poll of 1,600 Russians taken in February, before President Yeltsin agreed to sign yesterday's accord, found that nearly half were indifferent to possible NATO expansion. Older Russians' attitudes about NATO expansion were more likely to be negative than younger Russians' views. Graph and chart show results of the poll. (Source: All-Russia Center for Public Opinion Studies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (72%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); TRENDS (88%); TAX LAW (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); BACK PAY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



617 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: N.H.L. PLAYOFFS;
Messier Says He'd Like to Stay

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE 

DATELINE: RYE, N.Y., May 27

 BODY:
In his sixth year as a star performer for Madison Square Garden, Mark Messier has learned a little about the timetable of his corporate employer.
"With the way the Garden works, you have to be patient," said Messier, the captain of the Rangers, who will become an unrestricted free agent on July 1. "When your number's up, they'll take care of business." 
 And the word, number, applies to many things in the case of Messier, including age, goals and salary. After making $6 million as the highest-paid player on the team this season, Messier is free to try the free market to seek better wages. But his leverage fell with his limited production during the Stanley Cup playoffs.
In addition, Messier discussed loyalty today as the team formally broke up for the summer and the players cleaned out their lockers in Playland Ice Casino.
Messier hinted that he might accept a lower salary to continue dressing in a blue shirt alongside Wayne Gretzky, Brian Leetch and other players he admires. At least, he suggested, he will not aggressively market himself elsewhere.
"I don't even foresee that much negotiation going on with other teams," Messier said. "I don't know how much interest is out there. I haven't thought about that. I haven't even thought about playing anywhere else."
The Messier subject dominated the day. It was addressed by Neil Smith, the president and general manager, and Colin Campbell, the coach. Messier and the Rangers finished their surprising playoff run on Sunday in Philadelphia where the Flyers beat them by 4-2 to take the Eastern Conference finals in five games.
Although the Rangers ousted Florida and the Devils earlier in the playoffs, Messier scored only 3 goals in 15 games. He scored 36 in the regular season, but only 4 after Feb. 8.
Smith said he wants Messier to return for a seventh season as he approaches his 37th birthday. But Smith also used phrases like "economics of our situation" and "ceiling" and "use your budget wisely" and "trying to hold the line, fiscally" when discussing Messier.
"We'd love to have Mark back," Smith said. "We want him back. It is still a business at some point. You have to have a perspective of that." He said he would have loved to have kept Pat Verbeek after last season, but that he was out-bid for Verbeek's services by the Dallas Stars.
"I'm going to go into the summer process with the assumption we have Mark onside," Smith said.
Campbell used words such as "delicate" and "important" regarding the Messier question.
"Hopefully, for everybody, it's a happy ending," Campbell said. "How many dollars will it take to do this? It isn't going to be an easy thing. Lots of things will be difficult."
Campbell said Messier's reduced effectiveness in the post-season may have been a result of increased ice time due to injuries to other players. But, even before the injuries, Messier took a regular shift when teams were at full strength, occasionally double-shifted, worked most of the power plays and killed most of the penalties.
In order to make room for young players such as center Christian Dube, it might be necessary for players such as Messier to accept fewer minutes. This is easier said than done for Messier, an 18-year veteran.
"There always comes a day for any athlete and a time for an athlete to take a reduced load," Campbell said, adding that Messier did this until his minutes increased during the playoffs.
Messier seemed in high spirits today. He said he was fortunate to go through the playoffs without injury. He said the preseason World Cup did not wear him down and that he would like to play for Team Canada in the Olympics in Japan next winter when the league takes a midseason break for the international tournament.
He said money would not be a big issue in his negotiations with the Rangers because he has earned plenty and is satisfied to play on a year-to-year basis for the enjoyment of playing to win. He even joked that he would be willing to work on a game-to-game contract.
"Throw the crutches away and get out there," Messier said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Messier laughing with reporters yesterday as the Rangers cleaned out their lockers. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (61%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RANGERS DALLAS STARS LP (61%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); WINTER SPORTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; MESSIER, MARK MARK DOUGLAS MESSIER (94%); WAYNE GRETZKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



618 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: An Active Regulator Will Step Down

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27

 BODY:
Reed E. Hundt, who has presided over the most turbulent era in the Federal Communications Commission's 63-year history, announced today that he intended to step down as chairman as soon as a replacement was named.
In a letter to President Clinton, Mr. Hundt, a combative former communications litigator, said that it was time for others to assume the task of supervising the nation's fast-growing telecommunications sector, which now accounts for nearly one-sixth of the United States economy. 
 Mr. Hundt's three and a half years at the helm of the F.C.C. have indeed been eventful. The commission has supervised the beginning of a sweeping deregulation of the country's telephone system, issued the first licenses for advanced digital television broadcasting, tried to bring greater competition to cable television service, attempted to harness an explosion in wireless communications and negotiated a ground-breaking international telecommunications agreement.
Mr. Hundt, using a combination of his office's high public profile, the powerful sponsorship of the White House and shifting alliances in Congress, has been able to push through a number of carefully calibrated compromises on those matters that have satisfied the overall intent of lawmakers, while leaving many of the details to others.
He takes pride in the $23 billion he has brought into the Federal Treasury through auctions of rights to the wireless spectrum and in having trod, sometimes seemingly with glee, upon influential toes.
Mr. Hundt called the F.C.C. chairmanship "the most exhilarating and gratifying experience of my career," but said he was departing to spend more time with his wife and three school-age children.
"I don't feel there's anything that needed doing in the time I've been here that we didn't do," Mr. Hundt, 49, said in an interview in his office six blocks from the White House. "We've repeatedly been handed the ball with an opportunity to make the game-winning shot and I hope we put the ball in the net more times than not."
Working with a commission deeply rent along partisan and ideological lines, Mr. Hundt has made enemies in some of the most powerful and well-heeled precincts of American business -- local telephone monopolies, the broadcast industry, cable operators and newly rich cellular-telephone enterprises.
Mr. Hundt, to a greater degree than any F.C.C. chairman since Newton Minow more than 30 years ago, has seen his office as a public pulpit. He has traveled widely and given more than 160 speeches on the societal obligations of broadcasters and telephone companies.
Vice President Al Gore, Mr. Hundt's prep-school classmate and chief political sponsor, called the departing official "the best chairman in the history of the Federal Communications Commission."
"He has shepherded this country into the information age and presided over the implementation of some of the most complex and historic changes in our communications law ever passed," Mr. Gore said in an interview.
Mr. Hundt will be remembered for his assertive approach, particularly on matters relating to children's television programming and other presumed public-interest issues, such as his effort to keep liquor advertising off the airwaves.
Over the last five years, Congress has passed a number of epochal laws deregulating the nation's television, cable and telephone networks and delivered to the F.C.C. the thankless task of carrying them out.
The laws have contained a number of contradictory provisions, both protecting local telephone companies from rapid deregulation while mandating increased competition for local phone service. Congress has also demanded lower cable television rates but left to the regulatory agency the job of figuring out how to impose them.
Among the more difficult balancing acts Mr. Hundt has faced has been to carry out Congress's mandate in last year's telecommunications act, in which the commission was ordered to dismantle the complex structure of subsidies that have governed local and long-distance telephone rates for decades while creating a large fund to insure basic telephone service for low-income and rural customers.
But Mr. Hundt, whose byword has been to try to achieve the economically defensible within the confines of the politically possible, chose to take a relatively small step toward reducing the rates long-distance companies pay local phone companies for access to their networks. At the same time, he persuaded his fellow commissioners to establish a $2.3 billion fund to provide subsidized access to the Internet for schools, libraries and health clinics.
Mr. Hundt's often-difficult relations with the entities he regulates have been mirrored inside the walls of the F.C.C. headquarters.
Perhaps his toughest adversary has been a fellow commissioner, James H. Quello, a conservative Democrat who has served on the F.C.C. since 1974 and was its interim commissioner for nearly a year before Mr. Hundt was confirmed in November 1993.
Mr. Quello described his differences with Mr. Hundt as philosophical rather than political.
"He is very regulatory in his approach," Mr. Quello said in an interview today. "He has been responsible for the greatest case of F.C.C. regulatory micromanagement in the 23 years I've been here. I resist Government telling broadcasters how to run their stations in detail."
The chairman's most frequent industry sparring partner has been Edward O. Fritts, the president of the National Association of Broadcasters.
In a curt and dry-eyed valedictory, Mr. Fritts said, "While we haven't always agreed with Chairman Hundt, we have enjoyed his competitive spirit and the robust debate that he engendered by bringing a full marketplace of ideas to the table."
Consumer groups and children's advocates offered praise for Mr. Hundt, a graduate of Yale University and Yale Law School who practiced law at the Washington office of the Los Angeles firm Latham & Watkins before being named to the F.C.C. job.
"He fought for the underdog in a number of key areas," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. "He led a charge to bring down cable rates, he kept the lid on telephone rates and fought to wire schools to the Internet."
Mr. Hundt said he had few plans for the future, but indicated he would be active in supporting Mr. Gore's Presidential ambitions.
He said he would stay on the job until President Clinton named a successor and would then devote time to writing a book about telecommunications. Its working title: "You Say You Want a Revolution: How Communications Can Change the World."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reed E. Hundt has achieved a series of regulatory compromises at the F.C.C. (Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Paving the Information Highway"
Dec. 2, 1993 -- Reed Hundt, 45, is sworn in as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission with an agenda that includes bringing the Internet and wireless communication to rural and poor areas, as well as to schools.
 
PUB-DATE: March 13, 1995
 
Feb. 8, 1996 -- The Federal Telecommunications Act is signed by President Clinton. The bill allows direct competition among cable, local and
long-distance phone companies and deregulates cable rates.
 
PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996
 
PUB-DATE: April 3, 1997
 
PUB-DATE: May 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (54%); 

PERSON: HUNDT, REED E (CHMN); BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (88%); AL GORE (58%); ROBERT W BEST (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



619 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Coca-Cola Enterprises To Buy 2 Big Bottlers
The world's largest bottling company, Coca-Cola Enterprises, plans to get even larger. It agreed to acquire bottling companies from the Coca-Cola Company in two of its strongest markets -- Canada and metropolitan New York -- for $1.01 billion in cash plus $650 million in assumed debt. 
 Analysts said the acquisition would let Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is 44 percent owned by the Coca-Cola Company, cut costs, control its distribution and market its products more efficiently in those areas. [Page D2.]
 
Consumer Confidence Rises
Consumer confidence rose to a 28-year high in May, the Conference Board said. But a separate report showed that home resales fell more than expected in April as borrowing costs continued to creep up. [D2.]
 
30-Year Bond Yield Above 7%
Treasury prices fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond to 7.02 percent from 6.98, marking the first time in nearly a month that it crossed the psychologically important 7 percent threshold. [D17.]
 
Stocks advanced to new highs in a rally led by computer issues. The Dow industrials rose 37.50 points, to a record 7,383.41, as I.B.M. set an all-time high and AT&T rose on word of its talks with SBC Communications. [D8.]
 
News Corp. in Satellite Swap Plan
The News Corporation has agreed in principle to hand over some satellite assets in return for a minority stake in Primestar Partners, a satellite broadcasting service that is headed by Time Warner and Tele-Communications. [D5.]
 
Toy Giants Walk Away From Deal
Sega Enterprises, the video game maker, and Bandai, the toy giant, abruptly called off their planned $1 billion merger. The collapse of the agreement -- which would have linked Bandai's Mighty Morphin Power Rangers and Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog -- came after Bandai middle managers practically rose up in revolt, illustrating the importance of consensus at Japanese companies. [D7.]
 
High Court Rebuffs Ernst & Young
The Supreme Court turned down an appeal by Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, of a ruling that entitled partners who did not exercise management responsibility to enjoy the legal protections that Federal labor and anti-discrimination laws give to ordinary employees. [A18.]
 
Nissan Swings Back to Profit
Nissan, Japan's second-largest auto maker, reported its first annual profit in five years, helped by the yen's weakness, cost reductions and stronger sales in Mexico. [D7.]
 
Interpublic Invests in Internet
Interpublic is expanding its presence in the realm of on-line advertising by investing in Tripod, an interactive marketing and media company that focuses primarily on consumers in their 20's. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
Smith Barney Official Suspended
Smith Barney has suspended Robert Maloney, the director for its Northeast region, pending an investigation of his role in soliciting campaign contributions, according to people familiar with the matter. [D8.]
 
Bank Buys Historic Wall St. Building
Credit Suisse First Boston has bought 55 Wall Street in Manhattan for $21 million, executives involved in the deal said, and plans to develop it into a ballroom and possibly apartments or a hotel. Four months ago Donald J. Trump decided not to buy the historic building. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,383.41, up 37.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.02%, up 0.04
The Dollar -- 116.68 yen, up 1.02
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Durable Goods Orders
 April figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern
 Expected: +1.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (93%); NWS (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (ASX) (91%); CCE (PAR) (90%); CCE (NYSE) (90%); T (NYSE) (83%); IPG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (93%); NEWS CORP (91%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (90%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (90%); AT&T INC (83%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (85%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (86%); MERGERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (68%); TOYS & GAMES (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (64%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (63%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



620 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Court Agrees to Decide if U.S. Customs Can Seize All Undeclared Money

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27

 BODY:
The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether the Government can constitutionally seize all the money that someone has tried to take out of the country without first filing the required report with the Customs Service.
A Federal law, intended to trace the money laundering of drug proceeds and other illegal transactions, forbids the export of more than $10,000 in undeclared cash. The penalties for failing to file a report are a fine of up to $250,000, a prison sentence of up to five years and forfeiture of all the money involved in the offense. 
 The Federal appeals court in California refused last year to enforce the forfeiture provision, ruling that it violated the Eighth Amendment's prohibition against "excessive fines."
That decision affirmed a 1995 ruling by the Federal District Court in Los Angeles, which held that forfeiture of the $357,144 in cash that a man had tried to smuggle to Syria through the Los Angeles International Airport would be "grossly disproportionate" to the offense and therefore unconstitutional. The court ordered a forfeiture of only $15,000.
In upholding that decision, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in effect declared the currency-reporting law unconstitutional. The appeals court suggested that no forfeiture at all should be permitted. It noted that a violation of the reporting law "merely deprives the Government of information, in contrast to violations of the law against smuggling undeclared items into the country." Jewelry or other undeclared items were subject to forfeiture, the court said, because their actual possession constituted the offense.
The Government appealed to the Supreme Court, warning the Justices that unless the Ninth Circuit's decision was overturned, the nine Western states within its jurisdiction "could readily become a haven for drug dealers, money launderers and tax evaders intent on conducting non-traceable currency transactions." In the year since the decision, there has been "a sharp and precipitous drop" in seizures of unreported currency, the appeal said.
"The economic power of much criminal activity depends on money laundering that secretly moves cash into and out of the country," the Government's appeal said, adding that "tracing the flow of currency plays a vital role in attacking global criminal activity."
The appeal noted that the Federal appeals court in New York had rejected a similar constitutional challenge to the forfeiture provision.
The Government said that forfeitures under the law were "not excessively punitive" because they were "perfectly calibrated to the seriousness of the offense." In other words, smuggling large amounts of money results in large forfeitures.
There was no proof of money laundering or other underlying criminal activity in the case at hand, United States v. Bajakajian, No. 96-1487. The defendant, Hosep K. Bajakajian, testified that he was taking the money, which was hidden in his luggage, to pay debts to friends and relatives in Syria and Cyprus.
There were also these other developments at the Court today:
 
Land Use
The Court ruled, 9 to 0, that a landowner whose property had been declared ineligible for development for environmental reasons could try to establish in court that the restriction was an unconstitutional taking of property without compensation.
The decision vacated a ruling by the Ninth Circuit, which last year dismissed the lawsuit against the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency as not ripe because the landowner had not tried to find a market for the development rights she had been awarded when she lost her right to build a home on her residential lot in the Lake Tahoe watershed.
Like a growing number of other land use agencies, the Lake Tahoe agency assigns to owners of restricted property a right to build elsewhere, which they may use themselves or sell to an owner of property that is appropriately zoned for development. The buyer would then be entitled to build a bigger structure than would otherwise be permitted.
In a majority opinion by Justice David H. Souter, the Court said today that although the market value of the development rights at issue was undetermined, that was a matter on which the trial court could take evidence and was not a reason to deprive the landowner, Bernadine Suitum, of her day in court.
Although property rights advocates hailed the decision, Suitum v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, No. 96-243, as a victory, the Court's essentially procedural ruling sidestepped the basic question in the case: what role the existence of the development rights should play analyzing whether the zoning restriction was an unconstitutional taking.
Property rights groups supporting Mrs. Suitum had urged the Court to rule that the rights were irrelevant, and that a prohibition on development on one piece of land was a taking regardless of the theoretical right to build elsewhere.
 
Partners or Not
Without comment, the Court turned down an appeal by the Ernst & Young accounting firm of a ruling that entitled members of the firm who had the title of "partner" but who did not exercise management responsibility to enjoy the legal protections that various Federal labor and anti-discrimination laws give to employees. Partners, as co-owners of their businesses, do not get the legal protections of employees.
A group of large law firms joined Ernst & Young in its appeal of the 1996 ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, which permitted an age discrimination suit by a 46-year-old accountant who had been dismissed from the partnership. The appeals court analyzed the structure of the firm and decided that the great majority of its 2,000 partners were functionally no better off than ordinary employees.
The case, Ernst & Young v. Simpson, No. 96-1553, has drawn intense interest in the legal and accounting professions. The appeal said it was "wholly inappropriate" for a court to "second-guess the business judgment" of people who sign partnership agreements.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); ERNST & YOUNG ERNST & YOUNG (90%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (91%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); ERNST & YOUNG US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (91%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; CURRENCY; LAND USE POLICIES; ENVIRONMENT; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); SEARCH AND SEIZURE; LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; CORPORATIONS EXCISE & CUSTOMS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); ASSET FORFEITURE (89%); VERDICTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (76%); SENTENCING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



621 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: European Disunion

 BODY:
Just as Americans are getting accustomed to the idea that Asia is the new crucible for American economic and political interests, Europe commands attention again. The confluence of two great shifts now planned in Europe, the eastward expansion of NATO and the adoption of a common currency, could change the Continent in ways that may undermine European stability in the decades ahead.
That danger was not much in evidence yesterday as President Clinton and NATO's European leaders welcomed President Boris Yeltsin to Paris to sign an accord that will govern Russia's relationship with the alliance. This agreement, the leaders declared, will speed the advent of a democratic, undivided Europe. It may also make it easier to sell NATO expansion to a wary Senate, which has the final say. Mr. Yeltsin sweetened the deal by announcing that Russian nuclear missiles would no longer be aimed at Europe, an easily reversible step Moscow took some years ago for American targets. 
 But the pleasantries in Paris were a distraction. The common denominator of NATO expansion and a single European currency is the division of Europe into two camps, the prosperous democracies and those not so strong or fortunate. NATO expansion would give that division political and military form, and the common currency would reinforce it economically. Russia, on all counts, would be left squarely in the excluded camp.
That may not seem worrisome from the many standards of success outlined by Mr. Clinton and the other architects of change. Adoption of a common currency will indeed enhance commerce among the countries allowed to use it and give that group greater international financial clout. The inclusion of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic in NATO, the probable first phase of expansion, would help them feel secure and part of Western Europe. Russia will have a consultative role in NATO.
But the broader picture is less reassuring. Just as the security of Europe after World War II depended on the transformation of Germany into a peaceful, democratic nation, the future stability of Europe now rests heavily on the consolidation of democracy and free markets in Russia.
Neither NATO growth nor a common currency will make it easier for Russia to see itself as part of Europe. Countries like Italy fear second-class status if they do not qualify for the common currency. Eligibility is limited to members of the European Union, and, among other things, requires budget deficits so low that even Germany and France may have a hard time qualifying. Russia is ineligible now, and likely to remain so for years.
NATO expansion at its core is an effort to erect a Western security zone in Eastern Europe while Russia is too weak to protest. That would be appropriate if Russia were rearming and becoming belligerent, and might prove a necessary step in the future, but it seems ill advised while Russia is trying with some pain to become a democracy.
What Russia most needs today is help in turning around its anemic economy. Historians may someday look back at yesterday's meeting and wonder why the leaders of the United States and European democracies seemed so intent on expanding NATO in 1997 instead of working more closely with Mr. Yeltsin to solve Russia's economic problems. Russia needs a new tax system much more than it needs a new relationship with NATO. There is nothing wrong with tinkering with the shape of Europe now that the Soviet Union is gone, provided the adjustments are more likely to bring the Continent together rather than drive it apart.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN SECURITY SYSTEMS (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; RUSSIA; EUROPE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO (77%); TRENDS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



622 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR NATO: WHITE HOUSE MEMO;
Clinton Plays to History, With Renewed Panache

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 27

 BODY:
Bill Clinton was chatting animatedly with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain under the glittering crystal chandeliers of Elysee Palace today when his turn came to sign the new accord between Russia and NATO.
He did so quickly, without any of his usual self-conscious flourishes. Yet the moment carried the sense of real occasion that so often eludes Mr. Clinton at home. 
 For foreign policy gives Mr. Clinton a broader canvas these days when the constraints of budget balancing and a Republican Congress have reduced him to small-scale announcements and sheer bully pulpitry in domestic policy. Also, the arena is far removed from the controversies that dog him.
Even with the Supreme Court ruling on the Paula Jones case reaching Paris to cast a shadow, Mr. Clinton could portray the reconciliation he had helped nurture between two cold-war adversaries as something historic.
President Jacques Chirac of France called the accord the elimination "of the last remnants of the cold war." President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia said, "We are determining the face of the future European environment." And Mr. Clinton said, "We look toward a new century with a new Russia and a new NATO working in a new Europe of unlimited possibility."
Four years ago Mr. Clinton would not have shown as much ease in this role as the catalyst for the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. He came into office promising to "focus like a laser" on the economy, to be the domestic policy President that George Bush had not been. His attention to foreign affairs was episodic, his approach uncertain.
But much has changed since Mr. Clinton's early days in office. America's economic expansion and low unemployment rates are now the envy of Europe. Mr. Clinton's signature politics of unapologetic moderation has found something of an imitator in Mr. Blair.
The idea of expanding NATO is not new for Mr. Clinton. He took his first steps in 1994 at a NATO summit meeting in Brussels, where he helped begin the Partnership for Peace program, which granted the new Eastern European democracies a new relationship to NATO.
It was well short of the full membership and security guarantees that Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic wanted. But Mr. Clinton promised that this would come with time.
But the program was overshadowed by finger-pointing among the NATO allies over the war in Bosnia. Neither the United States nor any Western European country seemed willing to take decisive action to stop the carnage. The question in the air was not about NATO's expanding its reach, but whether NATO had lost its bearings.
By the summer of 1995, as Bosnian Serb troops overran so-called safe areas of the United Nations, NATO's very future seemed at stake. "We and our allies were on the verge of losing faith in the institutions we had created," an Administration official recalled.
With humiliation in Europe looming and a re-election campaign before him, Mr. Clinton acted with a decisiveness he had not shown before. The United States rallied its allies to carry out air strikes against the Bosnian Serbs, and undertook the diplomacy in Dayton, Ohio, that brought a peace agreement.
The fruits of those actions were on display today as leader after leader gathered here mentioned Bosnia not as a crisis for the Western military alliance, but as one of its successes, noting that Russia had joined NATO in policing the peace in Bosnia.
Mr. Clinton has seen other foreign policy vindications as well.
He strode into the Northern Ireland conflict and gave a world platform to Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, several years ago. His act helped prod peace negotiations, which later collapsed when the I.R.A. stopped honoring a cease-fire. But now Mr. Blair's election raises hopes that the talks can begin again.
Mr. Clinton also took criticism for his decision to stick with Mr. Yeltsin through thick and thin, with some experts saying he was linking himself too closely to just one ailing Russian leader. But Administration officials say their strong relationship paved the way for the Russian President to cast aside his strong doubts and sign the pact with NATO today.
And so Mr. Clinton was a confident member of the club of presidents and prime ministers today. He flashed a big grin at Mr. Blair and gave him a broad thumbs-up as the new British leader finished speaking at the ceremony.
The President went along gamely when Mr. Yeltsin, during a group photo session, grasped Mr. Clinton's hand on one side and Mr. Chirac's on the other, pulling them into the air in a victory gesture.
Mr. Clinton's press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, was left to fend reporters' questions about the Supreme Court ruling. ("I believe that the opinion appears to have distracted all of you, but the President continued to conduct the nation's business today," Mr. McCurry said.)
Of course, history will determine if the expansion of NATO will turn out to be as important as the Marshall Plan after World War II.
"The last time Europe was this peaceful is when the Roman Empire existed," said Dan Plesch, director of the British American Security Information Council, a research organization on military issues. "How do you consolidate that? You do it by economic development and much more ambitious arms control."
Pointing to the unrest in Albania, he said: "Albania is a member of the Partnership for Peace and what good did it do it? It fell apart because of economic collapse."
But for Mr. Clinton, the course is clear. "NATO will promote greater stability in all of Europe, including Russia," he said confidently today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton's strong support for Boris N. Yeltsin paid off at the NATO signing. Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain joined them. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (93%); TONY BLAIR (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



623 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: True Equality Comes When Race Isn't a Factor;
A Loss of Ideas

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Anthony Lewis (column, May 23) laments the loss of diversity in higher education, and I agree completely. In 1993 I went to Harvard Law School because it was Harvard and because it had more black law students than any other school except Howard University Law School and maybe the law school at Georgetown University. 
 Why did that matter? Backup. As an undergraduate at Cornell, I knew that I would be expected to provide the (mythical) "black perspective" on every point and that it would be the same at Harvard.
The only difference is that I would have to have better arguments. I was not, however, prepared for how narrow the debate could truly become if students of differing backgrounds didn't speak up.
For instance, to some students, who will one day be mayors, judges and law professors, police are guardians to be trusted. To others, they are overseers who must be controlled with rigid procedural rules.
The same kind of vast perspective differences exist in tax policy, banking regulation and family law. The removal of some applicants from law school will remove ideas. So in addition to the tremendous setback the affirmative action rollback has dealt to the economic prosperity of people of color, this rollback will seriously injure the quality of legal education.
 
EULAS BOYD JR.
New York, May 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOYD, EULAS JR HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOYD, EULAS JR HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION LAW SCHOOLS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANKING LAW (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FAMILY LAW (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (67%); FAMILY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



624 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Trump's Bank Making Deal He Declined

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Four months after Donald J. Trump walked away from buying 55 Wall Street, a subsidiary of the investment bank that was to have financed his purchase of the historic building has bought it and is discussing developing a ballroom and possibly a luxury hotel or apartments.
The 155-year old building, originally built as the Merchants Exchange and later used as New York's customs house and headquarters of National City Bank, forerunner of Citibank, was purchased by a subsidiary of Credit Suisse First Boston for $21.15 million, executives involved in the deal said. 
 The Cipriani restaurant family, owners of Harry Cipriani in the Sherry-Netherland Hotel and Harry's Bar in Venice, are now negotiating for partial ownership and plan to open a banquet hall and ballroom in the building's rotunda hall. The Ciprianis have also approached Credit Suisse about developing a luxury hotel on the upper floors, an investment banker there said.
On Friday, the Credit Suisse First Boston subsidiary completed the purchase of the building from an American subsidiary of Kajima Corporation, one of Japan's largest construction companies, which took a heavy loss on the sale. Kajima had paid $69.1 million in 1990, but several major tenants left soon thereafter.
Brian R. Harris, head of the commercial trading desk at Credit Suisse First Boston, said it was possible that 55 Wall Street's nine stories could remain office space, but that a conversion to apartments or to a hotel was more likely. "It's a question of tolerance for risk," he said. "Apartments would be a safe deal, especially given the tax breaks for downtown development."
A residential development would create about 150 apartments, mainly studios and one-bedrooms, and a dozen duplexes, Mr. Harris said. Among those interested are Rockrose Development and Steven Witkoff, a frequent Credit Suisse First Boston partner.
As a hotel, the building could accommodate only about 200 rooms, he said, meaning a high construction cost per room. As a result, "it would have to be a fairly high-end hotel," Mr. Harris said. "We're talking to several high-end, niche players." Among them is Orient-Express Hotels, which owns the Cipriani Hotel in Venice and is being represented by the Cipriani family, he said.
At a minimum, Mr. Harris said, the Ciprianis will be a tenant of the ornate rotunda, a 70-foot-high, domed space that has been used several times in recent films.
The sale closing ended several months of dealmaking marked by changing players, perplexing delays, and a brief bout of litigation. Last September, according to court documents, Richard Fischbein, a prominent real estate lawyer, negotiated a contract for a client, the House of Blues chain of live music clubs, to buy 55 Wall Street for $23 million.
When House of Blues canceled the deal, Mr. Fischbein turned to another client, Mr. Trump, to whom he assigned the purchase agreement. With closing set for December, Mr. Trump, who had the finacial backing of Credit Suisse, praised the building as "one of the most magnificent structures in the world."
By December, however, Mr. Trump's opinion of the building appeared to have soured. After the closing was postponed twice, according to court documents, Mr. Trump -- who had put down a $1 million deposit -- demanded that Kajima, represented by Commercial Development International/East, lower the price to $18 million. Mr. Trump said he had learned that, after he had signed the purchase contract, water had caused $5 million worth of damage to the building's 161-year-old wood pilings.
Kajima sued in February to keep Mr. Trump's deposit, but under a settlement the details of which have been closely guarded, Mr. Trump was "made whole," people familiar with the terms said.
Mr. Trump, who is negotiating with several hotel chains to fill the base of his own 72-story tower at 40 Wall Street, praised the sale yesterday. "I think First Boston will do a good job," he said. "The most important element in this transaction, to me, was to have someone of quality directly across the street from 40 Wall."

GRAPHIC: Photo: 55 Wall Street, which may now be developed to include a ballroom, a luxury hotel, and apartments, was sold at a loss. (*Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); 1812 (TSE) (69%); PNC (NYSE) (57%); OEH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (69%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (69%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (69%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (69%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (69%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (77%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; KAJIMA CORP CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); KAJIMA CORP (69%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (57%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (57%); HARRY'S BAR LTD (56%); ORIENT-EXPRESS HOTELS LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; KAJIMA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (77%); JAPAN (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FIFTY-FIVE WALL STREET CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); LITIGATION (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



625 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Question Loosening of Technology Export Controls

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27

 BODY:
The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee has asked the Justice Department to look at whether there are any links between Asian donors to the Democratic Party and the Clinton Administration's loosening of export controls on sensitive American technology, which has benefited China.
In a letter last week to Attorney General Janet Reno, two Republican members of Congress cited four "questionable decisions" by the Administration, made over the objections of some national security officials, to approve the sale of American technology to China. 
 They include the 1994 sale of machine equipment to a Chinese aviation company, some of which was diverted to a military plant; the sale of 46 supercomputers over the last 18 months, giving the Chinese possibly more supercomputing capacity than the entire Department of Defense; a decision to shift jurisdiction over sales of certain jet engine technology, and the 1994 sale of sophisticated telecommunications equipment.
The letter sent by Representatives Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and Tillie K. Fowler, of Florida, is part of an effort by some Congressional Republicans to combine two contentious issues: investigations into questionable Asian donations and concerns about the Administration's policies on exports to China. Part of the Justice Department investigation into possible campaign finance violations includes evidence that Chinese officials talked about an illicit plan to funnel money to American politicians.
The letter offers no evidence that the donations and policy decisions are linked, but asks the Department of Justice to see "whether improper outside influence was brought to bear on Administration officials -- including the President -- and if that influence has resulted in decisions and policies that have liberalized the transfer of defense-related technologies."
Today, Lanny J. Davis, White House special counsel, said that "the President's decisions on trade and export control issues were made on the merits and not because of campaign contributions."
The Administration has explained its relaxed controls on sales abroad of sensitive American technology as part of its plan to make exports an engine of economic growth. This delighted technology company executives, some of whom increased their financial support for the Democrats, and benefited the Chinese, who were eager to acquire sophisticated technology made in the West.
Mr. Hyde and Ms. Fowler, like many Pentagon and intelligence officials, criticized the policy as providing a significant increase in China's military capabilities. The lawmakers focused some of their concern on the Commerce Department, which serves as the promotional vehicle for the Administration's export strategy as well as the enforcement arm for sales abroad.
For example, the 1994 sale to the Chinese of machine equipment, manufactured by McDonnell Douglas, was approved by the Commerce Department despite warnings by Pentagon officials that it might be diverted to military use. The sale and subsequent diversion are under review by a Federal grand jury here, but the letter asked that this matter also "receive full scrutiny in the context of the Justice Department's investigation of campaign finance improprieties."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ETHICS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 EXPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT CONTROLS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); GRAND JURY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HYDE, HENRY J (REPR) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



626 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2074 words

HEADLINE: Heartland Emerges as Leader in Global Trade

SERIES: ECONOMIC PULSE: The Mountains and Plains

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, May 27

 BODY:
Though ports historically have tied foreign trade to seacoasts, this interior city, 1,000 miles from the sea, will play host next month to world leaders at their annual economic summit meeting. The choice of Denver as the gathering place is symbolic of how America's heartland is becoming a major player in the world economy, leading the country in foreign trade growth and drawing investment from around the globe.
Of the 10 states that recorded the fastest rates of export growth from 1988 to 1996, seven were landlocked Western states. Arizona, the region's star performer, exports more per capita than New York. Colorado, once viewed as cow country, recently saw the value of its manufactured exports surpass that of its farm and ranch production. 
 Traditional heartland industries like farming and mining are rapidly growing and joining the world economy. With exports of processed food soaring, Plains farmers are riding a boom that is forecast to double American food exports over 15 years, to $80 billion in 2005.
At the same time, technological advances have allowed new industries, like financial services, computer services and telecommunications, to flourish in the world economy from bases in the nation's interior.
"In terms of integrating into world markets, the heartland has played catch-up at a very fast clip in the 1990's," said Mark Drabenstott, vice president for research at the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City, Mo.
But economic growth has brought new constraints, as state officials struggle with labor and housing shortages and with the historic barrier to growth in the West: water.
Still, statistics bear out a remarkable economic surge for almost all the states in the mountain time zone, a geographically disparate area that includes all or part of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming.
In 1988, these 11 states exported, on a per capita basis, at half the national average of $1,246. By last year, the region's average had risen to two-thirds the nation's new average, $2,348. The increase came during a period when the nation doubled its total exports, to $623 billion in 1996.
In Idaho, for example, 75 percent of the 100 million bushels of wheat grown annually goes overseas.
In Nebraska, Gov. Ben Nelson has become a Midwestern Marco Polo. Since 1991, he has led state trade missions to Japan and China three times each, to Taiwan four times and to Hong Kong five times. In February, he ventured south, taking Nebraska exporters to Argentina and Brazil.
"We just opened offices in Shanghai and Porto Alegre, Brazil," Tony Raimondo said from Columbus, Neb., where he runs the Behlen Manufacturing Company. Behlen, which makes metal storage silos and grain dryers, has tripled exports since 1990, Mr. Raimondo said.
In Colorado next month, the region's new international character will be clearly visible to foreign participants at the "Denver Summit of the Eight" -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia.
Japan is the largest trading partner of Utah, Colorado, Nebraska and Kansas. Britain accounts for a major part of the $400 million invested in Colorado by 200 companies from 22 foreign countries. One of the state's ski areas is owned by a Japanese company, another by a Canadian company and a third by a Brazilian company.
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada, which is Colorado's second-largest trading partner, will be able to fly to the meeting here directly -- 11 flights leave Canada daily for Denver's new $5 billion airport. Boris Yeltsin's advisers will undoubtedly tell him that from Denver, the center of the American gold mining industry, Colorado companies mine gold in Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and the Russian Far East.
"Mining, aerospace, telecommunications -- they are all strong in Denver, and they are all investing in Russia," said Deborah Anne Palmieri, president of the Russian-American Chamber of Commerce, a national business group based in Denver since 1993.
The increasingly international flavor of the economy has also affected the region's traditional mainstay, agriculture. Today, Plains states ship record amounts of pasta, boxed steaks and frozen chicken to a range of new markets: Russia, Latin America and the Far East.
"Russia is by far our biggest volume market; we're selling everything from hot dogs to top-of-the-line T-bone steaks," Scott Sanem said by telephone from Moscow, where he recently opened a regional sales office for Conagra Refrigerated Foods of Greeley, Colo. "We have more than doubled sales over the last year."
In parts of the region, economic growth has triggered significant growth in jobs and population. Since 1990, the nation's fastest population growth, 18 percent, has occurred in the "Mountain" region: Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming.
But in the Plains states -- Kansas, Nebraska and the Dakotas -- economic growth is causing severe labor shortages. In general, these states appeal less to migrants than Colorado, say, because of the cold weather and the relative lack of recreational and cultural opportunities. And in recent years, Nebraska, South Dakota and North Dakota have recorded the nation's lowest unemployment rates, sometimes as low as 2 percent.
"Even though we have economies doing just as well, people don't think of moving to Iowa, Nebraska, North Dakota," said Ernest Goss, who edits a newsletter on the region's economy at Creighton University in Omaha.
In Colorado, which has absorbed 400,000 newcomers since 1990, rising real estate prices present other constraints.
Since 1990 in greater Denver, home sale prices and rents have increased by 50 percent, while wages have risen by 29 percent. Today, Denver is the sixth most expensive housing market in the nation.
As subdivisions have sprawled across what once was farmland, highway traffic has slowed to a crawl during rush hours in Denver, Phoenix and Salt Lake City. And suburbanites in faux leather cowboy boots may run up against the age-old shortage of water in the West.
"All these people coming in do not realize how vulnerable the region is for water," said William Stockton, an investment fund manager who grew up on a New Mexico ranch. "The newcomers have no notion of how bad things can get."
In part because of the shortage of water, the combined population of the 11 states in the region is only 18 million, less than the population of New York State.
 
Fewer Barriers In a Smaller World
Technological change has been the key to the growth of internationally competitive industries in the Rocky Mountain states and the Southwest.
"Back in the 30's and 40's, manufacturing for export would have been unthinkable in Arizona because of the low value-to-weight ratio," said John Lucking, a Phoenix economist. "Today, you can move computer chips economically by putting them on an airplane. You can't do that with diesel engines."
And so with manufacturing plants opening in the last two years in Arizona, New Mexico and Utah, the United States has regained the world lead in semiconductor production.
Advanced communications have also cut financial services from their traditional anchors on the coasts.
Helen Hayes, who manages two international mutual funds for Janus, said that being based in Denver was not an obstacle for the company. "With fax, video and Internet connections, it is becoming less important where you are located," she said. The company's two funds, Worldwide and Overseas, have a combined value of $10 billion. "Denver is now a stop on almost every road show for companies trying to raise capital," Ms. Hayes said.
Daniel W. Yohannes, an Ethiopian immigrant who is chief executive officer of Colorado National Bank, the state's largest, said, "We have tripled our foreign exchange operations in the last three years."
At the same time, high technology -- telephone, cable television, computers and computer services -- has become a pillar of the Colorado economy. Backed by strong research universities, high-technology employment in the Denver area has grown by about one-third in the 1990's, to about 110,000 people today, roughly the same number as in the Boston area. And according to a recent survey, 57 percent of the 3,000 high-technology companies in Colorado earn at least 10 percent of their revenue from foreign trade.
The US West telephone company, which is based in Denver, now operates cellular or cable telephone companies in Argentina, Belgium, Britain, the Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Singapore and Slovakia.
At Professional Travel Corporation, Denver's largest agency specializing in corporate travel, Ed Adams has watched international air ticket sales jump to 10 percent of his billings today, from 2 percent in 1990.
"It's creeping up each quarter as the companies start to expand more and more overseas," Mr. Adams said, adding that for a coastal city the figure would be about 20 percent.
Foreign travel from Denver is expensive because even after two years of operation, the city's airport has no direct flights to Germany or Japan. But in a sign that Denver's air isolation is breaking down, Korean Air inaugurated a three-times-a-week flight on Friday from here to Seoul.
With these changes, one is just as likely to hear a Russian accent on the street in downtown Denver as to see a cowboy hat.
"When I came here five years ago, Denver seemed kind of like a small town, very slow, very country," said Mikhail L. Andelman, one of an estimated 10,000 Russian emigres living here. The director of American operations for Interfax, a Russian news agency, Mr. Andelman said from his Denver office, "Now it is more international."
 
More Jobs, More People
The region's rapid integration with the world economy is taking place as much of the area is still riding a larger economic boom that started in the early 1990's.
Although job growth is slowing slightly, it is expected to be 5 percent this year in Arizona and Utah and almost 4 percent in Colorado -- the region's three largest economies. Arizona has been adding 100,000 jobs a year since 1994.
Since 1990, Colorado's population has swelled to almost four million. In that time, Colorado has had 11 of the 35 fastest-growing counties in the nation, including the top four -- Douglas, Elbert, Park and Custer.
Virtually a city-state, greater Denver now has two million people, slightly less than Nebraska and Wyoming combined. Some in Colorado fear that state officials are taking growth for granted.
"Economic activity is easy to turn off but hard to turn back on," said Ross Boyle, an economic development consultant based in Vail. "Much of Colorado's population growth and job growth can be attributed to the problems in California. That outflow is now subsiding."
Historically, Colorado, like much of the Rocky Mountain West, has endured booms and busts -- gold in the 1860's, silver in the 1880's, military spending during World War II, and oil and gas in the 1970's.
Now, construction may be vulnerable -- the state has one-third more construction jobs than the national average. Last year, greater Denver's commercial real estate sales hit $855 million, double the level of five years ago.
"Construction is more important to us than nationally," acknowledged Nancy J. McCallin, a state economist here. "But we didn't build in Colorado for 10 years. We may just be in a different building cycle."
Others say that as Colorado's economy has diversified, it has become crash-proof. For example, Denver, once addicted to oil and gas, now depends on the energy sector for less than 1 percent of its jobs.
In a sign of the times, Denver's once exclusive Petroleum Club was rebaptized last fall with a more generic name: Top of the Rockies. During the international economic meeting June 20 to June 22, this club, on the top floor of a 37-story downtown high-rise, will be a gathering place for finance and foreign ministers.
The new participation in world markets contributes to the region's economic diversity and stability.
"There used to be an advantage to being on the coast," Mr. Goss, the economist, said from Omaha, about 175 miles from the nation's geographic center. "But technology has made distances much shorter. We are not talking about ships, we are talking about financial services."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Denver skyline suggests that city's growing status as an international trade center, where manufactured exports now predominate. (Helen H. Davis for The New York Times)(pg. D21)
 
Graphs: "KEEPING TRACK: Foreign Trade Flourishes Far From Nation's Coast"
The 11 states of the mountain time zone lead the country in foreign trade growth. This economic growth has triggered higher population growth and low unemployment. Graphs show percentage change in exports per capita from 188 to 196, percent change in population from 1988 to 1996 and the unemployment rate of March 1997, for the 11 mountain time zone states. (Sources: Massachusettes Institute or Social and Economic Research at the University of Massachusettes at Amherst; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Census Bureau)(pg. D21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: NAICS332311 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDING & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3448 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDINGS & COMPONENTS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%); 

COMPANY: BEHLEN MANUFACTURING CO (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); ARIZONA; COLORADO; GREAT PLAINS (US); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; HOUSING; FOOD; AGRICULTURE AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); MAMMALS (57%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES BEN NELSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



627 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 28, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Mid-Atlantic Region Gains in Optimism

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Residents of the Middle Atlantic region that includes New York and New Jersey are becoming increasingly convinced that better economic times are on the way, a nonprofit business group said yesterday. But the region still lags far behind the rest of the nation in overall optimism. 
 The Conference Board, which is based in New York, said that the region's three-month average index of consumer confidence in March, April and May is up 56.1 percent compared with the same three-month average last year, and that the index of future expectations rose nearly 35 percent. In both categories, those increases were the sharpest of any of the nine national regions tracked by the group.
Nationally, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index reached a 28-year high of 127.1 in May. By contrast, the confidence level in the Middle Atlantic region, which also includes Pennsylvania, stood at only 85.7. The index was set at 100 in 1985. KIRK JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997



628 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: The Hamptons Bell Rings for Round 1

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MASON 

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON, N.Y., May 25

 BODY:
As a convoy of gleaming Range Rovers, Mercedes-Benzes and Bentleys inched along Main Street on the Friday before Memorial Day, heralding that inexorable rite of summer -- the lemminglike dash by prosperous New Yorkers to their overpriced East End rentals -- Jack Kehoe, a local sign painter, heaved a deep sigh.
"I got three hours' sleep last night," he said from a ladder propped against Cynthia Rowley's boutique-in-progress, as he added a final lick of black paint to the ultimate letter, "y." Mr. Kehoe had had only 48 hours to produce signs for six new stores, after they were approved by the town's exacting design review board. Inside her store, Ms. Rowley, the fashion designer, appeared similarly dazed, awaiting the arrival of mannequins. "We got our lease just 20 days ago," she said. 
 A chilly spring and an earlier-than-usual Memorial Day weekend conspired to send summerers, and those who bill them, into a frenzy. "Judgment Day was never like this," said David Seeler, the owner of the Bayberry Nursery in Amagansett, who had made 49 house calls in two days to insure that gardens were looking sufficiently vernal.
At Sotheby's International Realty in East Hampton, John Golden, a broker, bemoaned the dearth of houses for rent in the $350,000-for-the-season price range. Sotheby's had just five. "I only wish I had more $10 million houses to rent," Mr. Golden said. "We can't get enough of them." (The commission on rentals is 10 percent.)
Mr. Golden told a cautionary tale of a tenant who tried making do with a $150,000 rental. The man called on his first Thursday evening in the home to report that he was having trouble locating the switch for the pool heater.
"I hated to have to break the news to him," Mr. Golden said. "The house didn't come with a heated pool."
In what passes for economy class in the Hamptons -- the $15,000-to-$30,000-a-month range -- there seemed to be a rental surplus. "We're getting around 100 desperate calls a day from people who haven't yet rented their houses for the summer," Mr. Golden said. "They're telling us to lower the price or just accept any offers we can get. All of the major deals were done by the end of January."
A rent of $350,000 for a 90-day period works out to $3,888 a day, or $162 an hour, roughly the price of a session with a psychiatrist. And judging by the hurl of insults exchanged in the parking lot at Lynch's garden supply store in Southampton on Saturday afternoon, therapy might have been the wiser investment.
"I thought they were going to duke it out, they were screaming so loud," said Patrick West, who directs traffic at Lynch's busy parking lot, as he watched two New Yorkers trying to beat each other to the only parking space.
"It's wild how aggressive New Yorkers can be when you consider they probably think they're here to relax," said Elizabeth Yastrzmski, a landscape designer, as she dragged a red cart laden with plants through the parking lot at Lynch's. "It drives me crazy when they steal all the great-looking plants from your cart when you turn your back."
At Mecox Gardens, an elegant garden store on Route 27 in Southampton, the scene was positively serene by comparison. "Our customers are not the do-it-yourself crowd," explained the owner, Mac Hoak, whose ubiquitous green-and-white trucks deliver instant gardens to those who delight in nature but find themselves uninspired by the prospect of digging in all that dirt.
Chris Becker, a local landscape architect, explained that the urge to get plants in the ground this time of year has less to do with any Druidic cycle than with a conveniently timed holiday. "I find that a major part of my job is counseling my clients and reassuring them that their plants are just as big and healthy as other people's," he said.
Those who rent their ground turn to people like Kristen Zimberg, a florist, who said her clients pay her an average of $1,000 a weekend to fill their houses with fresh blooms.
The interior designer Noel Jeffrey, who created the first in a series of garden-room displays for Mecox Gardens, spoke of the difficulty of corralling local tradesmen during the summer season. Even the ostensibly mundane task of hiring a window washer, he said, can be as difficult as getting an appointment with a top surgeon. "I called in January for Memorial Day, but they told me they were already booked," he said. "So we'll have to wait until June."
Ben Krupinski, contractor to the stars and a local legend, who labored on Martha Stewart's house on Lily Pond Lane in East Hampton, seeks refuge at this time of year in one of his two boats at the East Hampton Point Marina.
He laughed when Ina Gartner, the owner of the Barefoot Contessa, the fancy-food shop where feverish crowds were shopping as if for a creme-fraiche famine of biblical proportions, cautioned that Wall Street titans obsessed with getting their boats into Long Island Sound so early in the season might hit an iceberg or two.
"I'm like everyone else," he said. "I become obsessed with getting my boat in the water by Memorial Day weekend. Of course, it's irrational because the weather's usually too cold. But once it's in the water, you can fool yourself that summer's begun.
"We've had crews working double shifts," added Mr. Krupinski, who is a part owner of the marina. "Unfortunately, mine is one of the last to go, because I think people might find it a little distasteful if they learned that the owner's boat made it into the water before theirs."
But the ire of summer residents rarely has any effect, said Al Wilson, a slipcover cutter based on the North Fork. "You get a lot of folks yelling over the phone that they want everything done by Memorial Day," he said, "but it doesn't do them much good if the slipcovers aren't ready."
Tugging immaculate white covers over dining chairs in the 1820 Sagaponack farmhouse of the architect Alison Spear and her husband, Carlos Gomez, a financier, he said:
"This house is right out of a magazine, but it's nothing compared to Chuck Scarborough's place in Southampton."
Asked if the NBC newscaster was also a client, Mr. Wilson grinned. "You bet," he said. "What a guy. Three wives, three houses, and I've slip-covered them all."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Summer, brought to you by: Al Wilson, above, slipcover maker; Cynthia Rowley, top, new boutique owner; Peter Mott, inset, boat launcher at East Hampton Point Marina. (Photographs by Lois Raimondo for The New York Times) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (67%); CYNTHIA ROWLEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMPTONS, THE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING AUCTIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (74%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); FASHION DESIGN (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); APPROVALS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MASON, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



629 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Skilled or Not, Immigrants Aid U.S. Economy;
Pandering to Bias

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your May 27 editorial "Immigrants and the Economy" pointed out the lack of foundation for anti-immigrant sentiments based upon the economy. Such sentiments are sadly widespread and have even found a place in the New York State Lottery's promotion of one of its products. One ad reads: "In 2007 intelligent life will be discovered on Mars. Then they'll come here and take your job." When the government of a state with a high immigrant population panders to anti-immigrant prejudice in such a fashion, it's clear that much needs to be done to re-educate ourselves and our leaders.
 
DANIEL S. WEIR
Buffalo, May 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (84%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LOTTERIES (55%); 

PERSON: WEIR, DANIEL S MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



630 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Vote Focus: 'Jobs, Jobs, Jobs'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: FREDERICTON, New Brunswick, May 28

 BODY:
With his bookstore sandwiched between the election headquarters of two political parties, Eric Aubanel cannot get to work without being bombarded by campaign promises to lower Canada's chronically high unemployment rate.
"It's a big issue here," Mr. Aubanel said from behind the register at Kingfisher Books. "But there's not much that any government is going to do about it." 
 Most opinion polls show that unemployment and job security are the most important issues in the elections on Monday, when Canadians elect a new House of Commons, and also the most difficult for candidates to address.
It was the same in the last national election in 1993 when Prime Minister Jean Chretien and his Liberal Party ran on a platform of "jobs, jobs, jobs." But while Mr. Chretien claims to have created more than 770,000 new jobs since he took office, 1.4 million Canadians are still out of work, the same number as in 1993.
Canada's unemployment rate has dropped to 9.6 percent, from more than 11 percent when Mr. Chretien took over. But it remains far higher than the 4.9 percent unemployment rate in the United States.
So when candidates promise to create jobs, voters like Mr. Aubanel turn skeptical.
"The Government can't really do anything about jobs," said Mr. Aubanel, 33, a research scientist who started his bookstore with his wife, Frances, two years ago because he could not find a job teaching. "I almost wish voters would stop bringing it up because it only forces the politicians into contortions trying to come up with a plan."
The national leaders of all five major parties bend over backward promising to reduce unemployment, but none have a convincing plan for creating jobs.
Jean Charest of the Progressive Conservatives wants to further reduce the $75 billion national budget while at the same time cutting taxes to increase consumer spending and thus help create jobs. Preston Manning of the Reform Party thinks that by eliminating government regulation, businesses will be freer to expand. The Liberals and the other two parties talk vaguely about reducing the deficit.
All the politicians know the dangers of being too frank about any government's limited ability to actually create anything other than civil service jobs.
On the day in 1993 when the national election was called, Kim Campbell, who was then Prime Minister, in a blunt response to a reporter's question, said she foresaw three or four more years of unacceptably high unemployment in Canada, and no substantial reduction in the jobless rate until the year 2000.
Mr. Chretien hammered Ms. Campbell throughout the 1993 campaign for resigning herself to high unemployment. That hurt her party, the Progressive Conservatives, which went on to suffer the worst defeat in its history.
Tom Kierans, president of the C. D. Howe Institute, a conservative policy organization in Toronto, said that despite the electoral trouble Ms. Campbell's statement caused her, she was right about the near impossibility of sharply reducing Canada's unemployment.
"I think 7.5 percent to 8 percent would have to be considered full employment in Canada," he said.
Several factors keep Canada's unemployment rate from dropping as low as the rate in the United States, Mr. Kierans said. Canada has a broader definition of unemployment, including people who look for jobs casually by checking want ads. In the United States, only people who report to employment centers and actively seek work are counted.
Another factor is the higher rate of incarceration in the United States, which removes from jobless lists many people Canada would consider unemployed.
The rest is more difficult to explain. Canadians are less willing to move to find a new job, especially if they live in Quebec or the Atlantic provinces like New Brunswick, said David M. Gray, a professor of economics at the University of Ottawa.
Mr. Chretien promises that the jobless rate will shrink as Canada's budget deficit disappears by the year 2000. He reasons that if the Government does not need to borrow money to cover the deficit, interest rates drop along with the cost of mortgages and auto loans. That increases demand for houses and cars, putting more people to work.
But Mr. Kierans said that is not necessarily what would happen. As the economy grows, he said, more people come out to look for work, driving the rate back up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET BOOKSTORES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY JEAN CHRETIEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



631 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Radio spectrum sales seem a success. Why the attack?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON'S three-year-old experiment in auctioning access to the radio spectrum is widely seen as a raging success, accelerating the telecommunications revolution and raising more than $20 billion for Uncle Sam. Why, then, is renewal of the Federal Communications Commission's broad authority to sell spectrum rights as quickly as possible under attack?
One reason is that Congress has been seduced by what Peter Pitsch, a communications consultant in Washington, calls "the dark side of the Force." Easy revenues from auctions are distracting lawmakers from the central objective of getting underutilized spectrum into productive use. 
 The other is muscle-flexing by communications companies -- notably, cellular phone service providers -- that already have the slots they need and are loath to see their profits eroded by added competition. Their concerns evoke no sympathy from Reed E. Hundt, the free-market-minded chairman of the F.C.C. who announced his resignation on Tuesday. "Spectrum licenses are tickets to ride the information highway," he argued. "We ought to be handing out as many spaces as there are drivers."
In the not-so-good old days the F.C.C. judged applications for spectrum use one by one, rewarding the "best"-- read, "best connected" -- with free licenses. But as spectrum grew incredibly valuable, this cozy system led to endless challenges and counterchallenges: the last big proceeding, in which the lawyers fought trench warfare over some $100 billion of free cell-phone licenses, delayed the start-up of cell-phone service in big cities by more than a decade.
In desperation the F.C.C. started handing out licenses by lottery in the 1980's. But that approach, too, became a vulgar joke, as tens of thousands of Americans with a $100 application fee and a dream vied for the right to become instant millionaires. So in 1993, Congress finally gave the green light to auctions.
Some $23 billion has thus far been committed by high bidders in 15 auctions. And from start to on-the-air finish, the process takes just a few years. Moreover, multi-round auctions adopted by the F.C.C. allow bidders to efficiently package both frequencies and geographic territories, maximizing the value of the licenses from the get-go.
Thrilled with found money that could not be labeled a tax, Washington has budgeted $26 billion more from spectrum sales over the next five years. So what's the problem?
Start with the fact that established spectrum owners -- and Wall Street -- are waking up to the fact that the F.C.C. wants the supply of scarce spectrum services like wireless phones to grow faster than demand. In April, Bernstein Research warned investors of probable "price discounting and promotions as carriers aggressively seek market share to maximize the contribution toward their fixed-cost base."
The cell-phone operators -- mostly multibillion-dollar corporations -- will not go down without a fight. "A lot of incumbents are working hard to insure that spectrum remains scarce," confirmed James Gattuso, vice president for policy development at the free-market-minded Citizens for a Sound Economy in Washington.
Now add the broadcast lobby to the political pot, and stir. Broadcasters have no direct stake in auctions because they have already muscled the right to free spectrum for long-awaited high-definition digital television service. But they are eager to discredit auctions, apparently in hope that they will not be forced to give back blocks of spectrum now allocated for ordinary television signals in time for their resale in 2002.
Washington inadvertently gave them a target when a hastily arranged auction in April, originally "scored" by the Congressional Budget Committee to generate $1.8 billion in revenue, yielded a paltry $13 million. "Clearly, spectrum auctions have reached the point of diminishing returns," wrote Eddie O. Fritts, president of the National Association of Broadcasters, in a letter to Senator Pete Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
Congress has only itself to blame: by setting tight deadlines to meet budgetary needs, potential bidders were unable to iron out technical problems in using the new frequencies before the auction. Nonetheless, the apparent fiasco set off alarms in the ranks of the deficit hawks. Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat, is talking about setting "reserve prices" below which spectrum could not be sold. And Senator John McCain of Arizona, an influential Republican conservative, is floating the idea of restricting sales in order to maximize Government revenues -- an initiative cheered by incumbent licensees.
The backlash does not surprise Robert Crandall, a regulatory economist at the Brookings Institution. "With the government in the business of selling public property, the temptation is always there to increase scarcity," he said.
This new confluence of interest between anxious license holders and a fiscally challenged Congress has shaken the departing champion of the auction system. "I'm proud we've collected billions for the Treasury," Mr. Hundt said, "but that's just a bonus."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC CO LTD (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; AUCTIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RADIO ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MARKET SHARE (68%); RESIGNATIONS (53%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: PITSCH, PETER K; PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



632 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Harran Journal;
Restoring the Fertile Crescent to Its Former Glory

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: HARRAN, Turkey

 BODY:
From the ruins of the ancient citadel that towers above this remote and dusty town, the plains of Mesopotamia stretch in every direction. Many great visionaries have reigned here, but perhaps none has had grander dreams than a 40-year-old engineer who stood atop the windswept bluff on a recent afternoon and surveyed his domain.
The engineer, Olcay Unver, heads the Southeast Anatolia Project, one of the most ambitious development projects ever attempted. His goals are nothing less than to transform an arid tract of land the size of Austria into a fertile and prosperous garden, to break down a feudal social structure in which most of its 6 million residents live in poverty and to provide so much work and opportunity that people will flow into this region from other parts of Turkey rather than fleeing in despair. 
 In his seventh year of running the project, Mr. Unver is beginning to succeed. Applying in part the lessons he learned while studying for his doctorate in engineering at the University of Texas and his experience as a water engineer for the Lower Colorado River Authority in Texas, he is slowly turning this backward and violent region into a model of rising expectations.
The scale of the $32 billion project, which envisions the construction of 22 dams and 19 hydroelectric plants on the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, is vast enough to fulfill any engineer's fantasies.
Three of the dams and adjacent power plants are completed, including the giant Ataturk Dam, the centerpiece of the project. Six more complexes are under construction, work on two others is about to begin, and the rest are being designed.
Under Mr. Unver's direction, the project has broadened far beyond its original scope. It now includes forestry, fish farming and urban planning programs, rural health clinics, literacy classes, handicraft courses, schools for farmers and centers for the promotion of women's rights. Dozens of such programs and centers are already functioning and more are opening every month.
"A lot of people have the misconception that this is an irrigation project or an energy project," Mr. Unver said as he looked out over the blossoming Harran Plain. "Actually it's an integrated socio-economic development project which aims to enhance the standard of living in this area. Maximum yield is not the goal. A good yield in an equitable social context is a better goal."
The project has roots as far back as the 1930's, when President Kemal Ataturk, the father of modern Turkey, proposed the construction of dams to harness the power of the Tigris and Euphrates. The region through which the rivers flow, one of the cradles of early civilization, was once known as the fertile crescent, but it dried up over the centuries and became a miserable backwater.
In 1989 the Turkish Government decided to consolidate the project within a single agency. Mr. Unver, then a young Government planner, became the agency's on-site director, and in 1991 he took over the leadership of the program. He has survived through seven Governments under five Prime Ministers.
Much of the region has been wracked by civil and military conflict for more than a decade. Kurdish separatists here are fighting the Turkish Army, and four of the nine provinces in the project area are under emergency rule.
When the war was at its peak in the late 1980's and early '90's, guerrillas singled out the project, attacking several machine shops and killing at least one group of engineers. But the guerrillas are not known to have attacked any of the project's sites in the last two years.
Scores of new factories are under construction, and scores more are already open. Most are producing textiles from the cotton that can now be grown in irrigated local soil, or processing the fruits and vegetables that are sprouting from green fields. All are fueled by the cheap electric power that is becoming available. A surprising number of the factories are owned by local entrepreneurs who had until now preferred to invest their money in other parts of the country.
"Everywhere in the region, we see a great deal of private investment, mostly by local people," said Elizabeth W. Shelton, the American Consul in nearby Adana. "I'm also struck by the amount of infrastructure investment the Government is putting in. There's tremendous road construction under way. Airports are being built. We're telling American businessmen that now is the time to come into the southeast."
Guerrillas are not the project's only problem, though. The two countries that lie downstream in the Tigris-Euphrates basin, Syria and Iraq, have complained bitterly about Turkey's plan to divert large amounts of the rivers' water.
Because of this conflict, major lenders like the World Bank have refused to contribute to construction of the dams or irrigation projects. Their reluctance has slowed the project and forced the Turkish Government to come up with almost all the money itself, fueling the country's 80 percent inflation rate.
The project is less than half finished, and its effects are only beginning to be felt by the local population. No one, not even Mr. Unver, will venture to guess when it might be completed. For years to come, people in this region will probably remain Turkey's poorest.
"Development levels here are comparable to those in Africa," said Mehmet Sirin Yigit, who heads the chamber of commerce in Diyarbakir, the region's largest city. "That has to change."
He added that what the project signifies, "we hope, is that the change has begun."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Olcay Unver, 40, is head of a program to turn an arid area of Turkey into a prosperous garden. He stood atop a citadel overlooking the Harran Plain. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)
 
Map of Turkey highlighting Harran: Harran is at the center of a plan to bring prosperity to millions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; ANATOLIA (TURKEY); TIGRIS RIVER; EUPHRATES RIVER; TURKEY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (57%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WATER; ATATURK DAM (TURKEY) ; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; HYDROELECTRIC POWER RIVERS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RURAL HEALTH (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (72%); POWER PLANTS (70%); WOMEN (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); AQUACULTURE (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); IRRIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: UNVER, OLCAY; KINZER, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



633 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Elections Near, Mexican Money Supply Grows

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 28

 BODY:
The amount of cash in circulation in Mexico has recently been rising, increasing suspicion that the Government may be moving to prime the economic pump before legislative and local elections this summer.
But independent analysts say that despite the intense political pressure in advance of the elections, scheduled for July 6, the Mexican Government has largely refrained from relaxing its economic policies to curry voter favor. 
 "I can't say there is absolutely no election spending," said Deborah Reiner, chief economist at the American Chamber of Commerce here. "But I don't see anything that indicates the Government has deviated in any important way. It's pretty impressive that they have stayed so much on track."
The Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which has ruled Mexico for decades, is facing the most competitive voting in modern times. Polls show that the leftist opposition leader, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, is ahead in the race for Mayor of Mexico City, and the PRI could lose its six-decade-long majority in the lower house of Congress.
Given that pressure, and the history of misleading status reports and behind-the-scenes fiddling by Mexican officials in electoral seasons, analysts said it might not have come as a surprise if President Ernesto Zedillo had strayed from the tight economic policies that restored Mexico's fiscal stability after the financial crisis of 1995, which eroded Mexicans' everyday living standards.
"Over the years the Government has earned the right to have everyone doubt it," wrote Jonathan Heath, an economist who has been critical of Mr. Zedillo, in a newspaper column published this week. "Nevertheless, in this specific case, I tend to believe the official explanation."
Central bank officials abandoned their customary silence last week to respond to reports suggesting that they were injecting cash into the economy. The amount of money in Mexicans' pockets increased more than the bank forecast because the economy grew by an unexpected 5.1 percent in the first quarter, explained Jose Julian Sidaoui, a deputy governor of the bank.
Several unusually long holidays, including Mother's Day on May 10, came close together this year, making the demand for cash especially high, the officials said.
"We like to give presents and flowers on Mother's Day," Mr. Sidaoui said. He acknowledged that the political campaigns had also affected demand for pesos, but only because more Mexicans were being paid in cash for political work than the bank anticipated.
But none of this, he said, is intended to artificially stimulate the economy.
Mr. Sidaoui said the central bank could react if inflationary pressure arose, "exclusively based on economic conditions."
The Government's economic program has gotten an endorsement from the currency markets, where the peso has been unusually stable in recent months, and from a generally rising stock market. The peso has been hovering just below 8 to the dollar since the beginning of the year, settling in New York late this afternoon at 7.9030 to the dollar. If money had been artificially pumped into the economy, a decline might be expected in the value of the peso, and then a surge in inflation, which has been held in check.
The peso has been sustained in part by a big influx of foreign capital, economists said. The American Chamber of Commerce estimates there had been $2.5 billion in direct foreign investment in Mexico in the first quarter of this year.
"We believe the currency is appropriately valued at this stage," said Lawrence Goodman, chief of Latin American research at Salomon Brothers.
By no means has President Zedillo remained aloof from the electoral fray. In his frequent travel outside the capital, he trumpets his success in pulling Mexico out of its deepest economic slump in decades and in restarting growth.
His Government planned a 9.3 percent social spending increase in real terms for 1997. It is building schools, roads, electrical grids and health clinics at a brisk pace -- the most generous social spending as a percentage of the budget that Mexico has seen in the last 10 years. Government officials have said privately in recent days they were projecting a slightly larger budget deficit than previously expected.
Nor has the central bank stayed completely out of the peso market. In a series of auctions, the bank has been buying dollars to build up Mexico's reserves, which have reached $21.7 billion, the highest level since the '95 crisis. But that does not seem to have undermined the peso's value, and the healthy reserves suggest that the Government is in an improved position to stanch any run on the currency.
Still, the recovery, which has taken hold mainly in northern regions where thriving export industries are centered, has not yet reached the majority of voting Mexicans. "People are still in crisis," said Sergio Martin Moreno, economist for ING Barings in Mexico City.
The Government has done "a very good job in stabilizing the economy," he said. "But for people in general, that's very difficult to recognize." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO CITY (MEXICO); MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); MAYORS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INFLATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: CARDENAS, CUAUHTEMOC; PRESTON, JULIA ERNESTO ZEDILLO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



634 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Spurs 1.4% Rise In Orders for Durable Goods

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28

 BODY:
Orders for big-ticket manufactured goods rose 1.4 percent in April, in part because of unexpectedly large orders by the Pentagon, Commerce Department figures showed today.
The rise in orders for durable goods, items from air-conditioners to rocket launchers that are expected to last at least three years, erased about two-thirds of a March decline. Most types of products posted gains, but electronic equipment slumped for the second month, causing some concern. Over all, orders rose by $2.4 billion, to $175.6 billion. 
 The biggest contributor to the rise was a 4.5 percent jump in transportation equipment, much of it for the military, that more than offset the 3.9 percent March drop in that category.
Though orders for durables are a closely watched, forward-looking indicator, month-to-month swings are so wide that analysts rarely use the data to draw firm conclusions about the near-term economic future. And when military business is so prominent, still greater allowance is made because these orders respond to political rather than economic factors, and are filled over long periods.
The gain in orders in April was slightly larger than expected, said Joel L. Naroff of the First Union Bank in Philadelphia, "but there was nothing in the report to suggest that the economy is either further accelerating or softening greatly." The chief implication, therefore, "is that the early spring slowdown has not yet been reversed," he said.
Oscar Gonzalez, an economist at John Hancock in Boston, said, "The numbers suggest pockets of weakness, yet still a growing manufacturing sector."
Orders for industrial machinery and equipment advanced 2.2 percent, the fifth consecutive increase, while the primary metals category jumped 2.8 percent.
On the other hand, new orders for electronic and other electrical goods tumbled 5.3 percent after a 6 percent drop in March, a combination that Mr. Naroff said "raises some questions" about the sector but did not arouse fears of a major slowdown.
Military orders soared 28 percent following double-digit declines a month earlier. Without the Pentagon's business, the overall gain in orders would have been only six-tenths of 1 percent instead of 1.4 percent.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods other than aircraft, a gauge of future investment in plant and equipment that strips out products that tend to be ordered in bunches, edged down six-tenths of 1 percent in April following a nine-tenths of 1 percent March decline.
Edward F. McKelvey, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, said this might represent "a bit of softening" but from a pace that remained quite rapid.
Over all, he said of today's figures that "they don't reveal any clear change in trend." The decline for March, initially put at 2.6 percent, was narrowed today to a 2.2 percent decline.
The department's report also showed that shipments of durable goods rose 1.1 percent, to $177.3 billion last month, while backlogs of unfilled orders eased four-tenths of 1 percent, to $493.4 billion, matching a March decline that was the first since August.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from November 1995 through April 1997. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW ORDERS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (73%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



635 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Stains Nomura, But Will It Stick?;
Future of Brokerage Firm Is a Test for Japan

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 25

 BODY:
He lived for his job as a middle manager at the Nomura Securities Company, the world's largest securities firm. Then the latest scandal hit, and his son, who had not bothered to telephone all year from college, called, worried that the firm might not survive.
"Many of us are starting to feel that even our children may not be proud to say their father is working at Nomura," said the manager, a tall man in a silvery gray suit, who refused to be identified. "The company is in a kind of anarchy now. It's like a ship that can't decide which way to go. While it can't decide, it's starting to sink." 
"The Gulliver," the employee added, "could become a Lilliputian."
It is a long way to fall for Japan's most powerful securities house: from the pinnacle of financial and political influence a few months ago, poised to lead Japan into a new era of financial liberalization, to a twilight zone as a scandalized pariah with which few want to deal openly -- all because of accusations that Nomura has had ties to gangsters.
Now, some employees and analysts say, the firm faces the challenge of its life: to shed its old ways, shake off the current disgrace and brace for a rough-and-tumble competition in the run-up to the Big Bang, Japan's grand plan to remake its markets to look like New York and London by 2001.
But the scandal is not just about Nomura and payoffs to gangsters. When prosecutors press formal charges against Nomura, as they are expected to do next month, that could snowball into an indictment of Japan's entire business tradition -- the circle of influence that creates shadowy alliances among politicians, bureaucrats and business executives. That tradition has long hindered Japan from freeing its markets and competing efficiently in the world of finance.
Among the documents prosecutors are scrutinizing are records for a couple of hundred special accounts -- which carried the designation "01" -- for leading politicians, ministers and bureaucrats in addition to gangsters. These clients are so important to Nomura that they have been handled secretly only by top Nomura executives, say employees and others with close ties to the company.
These special accounts gave the owners extraordinary benefits and perhaps undeserved profits that allowed Nomura to spread its tentacles into Japan's corridors of power. A similar scandal six years ago exposed the existence of the accounts and shook Nomura; their persistence underscores how deeply such shady ties reach into the Japanese system.
"The leaders of political factions collect funds through the manipulation of stocks," said Eitaro Itoyama, a former member of Parliament and Nomura's largest individual shareholder, with 10 million shares. "If the super-V.I.P. accounts are disclosed, it could be found that past prime ministers and vice ministers of the Finance Ministry were involved."
For Nomura, the pressure to uproot such traditional practices is mounting. In many ways, its rebirth is a test for Japan's financial industry as it strives to prove to the world's financial community that it can perform and behave like any other international player.
"We are now carrying out the realization of a real liberalization of the market," said Takao Toshikawa, who writes a political newsletter in Tokyo. "So we are in a sensitive time, politically, economically and culturally."
But Nomura always seems to have had luck on its side, ever since it began more than a century ago in a small shop run by a money changer born out of wedlock who took his mother's name, Nomura, and often drank himself into a stupor. His clever son, with barely a grade school education, catapulted the company into stocks by risking the firm's capital on a bet that the fledgling Tokyo stock market would crash in 1907. He was right and made the equivalent of millions in today's dollars.
Since then, Nomura has amassed an enormous pyramid of knowledge, contacts, sophistication and secrets. Its expertise is so far ahead of its regulators in Kasumigaseki, where the Finance Ministry is, that it is regularly consulted on drafts of new rules. During the booming days in the 1980's, brokers often referred to the ministry's securities bureau as the "Kasumigaseki branch of Nomura."
Still, Nomura's layers of secrets are haunting the company. Around Kabutocho, Tokyo's version of Wall Street, there is talk that the confidential numbered accounts were used to channel special compensation, rights to buy new issues and financial knowledge about companies.
Nomura's employees, described by one Japanese newspaper, as "pitiless, professional and cold-hearted" men who paid their dues by pounding the pavement peddling stocks to ordinary families, are virtually in revolt. Talented young employees have already left the company, and Nomura resumes are flying around Tokyo.
Morale is low, and these days, when Nomura salespeople make client calls, they often find the doors shut. Foreign and domestic companies, even Nomura's own affiliates, have been halting business with the company. The Finance Ministry banned Nomura from underwriting Government bonds, and regulators may suspend some of Nomura's business for three months.
[Setsuya Tabuchi, Nomura's former chairman and a towering figure in Japanese finance, and Hideo Sakamaki, its former president, who resigned in March, testified Wednesday before Parliament. Mr. Sakamaki acknowledged he had met with a gangster, and some employees fear that he may be arrested.]
Nomura's new president, Junichi Ujiie, who took over May 1 after 15 directors resigned to improve Nomura's image, acknowledged the challenges.
"What we are short of is pride for our company," he said in a speech broadcast throughout the company. "I hereby pledge to all of you that I will change this company into one that everyone can be proud of."
"The time to act is now," he added. "This is our last chance."
Mr. Ujiie also suggested that while the company could not collapse because of a financial loss, it could disintegrate because of a scandal and loss of morale, two employees said. Most people expect the company to bounce back, but precedents abroad, names like Kidder, Peabody and others consigned to history after financial scandals, are stark reminders of the risks.
For many employees, who were kept in the dark about the firm's ties to gangsters, there is a sense of betrayal and of growing distrust of top management.
"People are really disillusioned because those who were enforcing the rules were dealing with gangsters," said a Nomura employee who resigned last week to join another firm and who refused to be identified.
The scandal, first disclosed in February, led to the arrest on May 14 of a Nomura general manager and two former board directors. They reportedly paid 49.7 million yen ($418,000) to compensate for trading losses of a client linked to sokaiya, gangsters illegally paid by Japanese companies not to disrupt shareholder meetings by asking embarrassing questions or making demands of the management.
Then last week, prosecutors raided Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Japan's second-largest bank, on suspicions that it lent 26 billion yen ($260 million) to the Nomura client, the brother of Ryuichi Koike, a prominent sokaiya, to help finance stock purchases at Nomura and other brokerage firms.
Nomura and Dai-Ichi Kangyo officials have acknowledged wrongdoing but have not elaborated.
So far, it is unclear why Nomura and Dai-Ichi Kangyo were paying the sokaiya. Some people say Nomura felt threatened by Mr. Koike, who reportedly owned 300,000 shares in the company.
"Ties between the sokaiya and securities companies, they're as close as the chicken and the egg -- and you can't tell which comes first," said Kaoru Ogawa, a former sokaiya who says he worked for Nomura preserving order at shareholder meetings.
The origins go way back, he said. Sometimes a company preparing to list on the stock exchange would turn to Nomura, which would introduce a sokaiya to protect management at shareholder meetings. Mr. Ogawa said that many sokaiya, including himself, then expanded their ties with securities companies into investing.
"For Nomura, the regular ordinary people who buy 1,000 shares or so are trash," he said. "If you buy two million yen worth in stocks, the Nomura man might shoo you out the door. They much more appreciate the two billion yen from Koike."
Two billion yen is worth about $17.2 million. Thus, the special accounts illuminate what the little investor in Japan has feared for years -- that he is squeezed for commissions and sometimes sacrificed for the sake of favored clients.
In a scandal exposed in 1991, Nomura was caught manipulating the stock price of the Tokyu Corporation to allow a special client -- one of Japan's leading gangsters -- to sell at a large profit while small investors were taking a bath in shares of the railway and property company.
The scandal rocked Nomura -- its chairman and president were forced to resign, and half of its Japanese branch offices were ordered shut for a month -- but the company recovered. This time, however, some say that Nomura may emerge weaker and that the Finance Ministry is considering several actions, including the possible spinoff of parts of Nomura.
Some insiders, however, say the doomsday talk is exaggerated.
"Nomura has power and money," the employee who recently left the firm said. "It's a company that can just bide its time as other players exhaust themselves in the course of Big Bang deregulation. If Nomura collapses, the others will, too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Setsuya Tabuchi, Nomura's former chairman, left, and Hideo Sakamaki, its former president, who resigned in March, testified yesterday before the Japanese Parliament. Mr. Sakamaki has acknowledged meeting with a gangster. (Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 
Chart/Photo: "A Sullied Giant"
Nomura Securities, the world's largest securities firm, was exposed in 1991 as having manipulated the stock price of a Japanese railway company by talking up its stock to help a gangster sell shares at a large profit. With the company now caught in a second scandal involving special deals for gangster associates, Nomura's business in Japan and abroad may be seriously harmed.
 
ALLEGATIONS
Nomura reportedly maintained confidential numbered accounts used to offer special compensation to favored clients such as politicians, ministers, bureaucrats and gangsters. The firm allegedly paid $418,000 to compensate for trading losses of a gangster's brother.
 
LOST BUSINESS
The California Public Employees' Retirement System, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, and many Japanese pension funds, bond issuers, municipalities, insurance companies, and even Nomura affiliates have withdrawn business from the firm. Japan's Postal Ministry has suspended investing money through Nomura, and the Finance Ministry has banned the firm from underwriting Government bonds.
 
CONSEQUENCES
Prosecutors are expected to press formal charges against Nomura that could give unwelcome scrutiny to Japan's tradition of alliances among politicians, bureaucrats, business executives and gangsters.
 
(Photograph by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 
Table: "Atop the Heap" lists the world's largest securities firms, ranked by capital at the end of 1995 fiscal years, converted to dollars at exchange rates of Dec. 31, 1995. (Source: Worldscope)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (92%); N33 (SGX) (92%); 8604 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (92%); NOMURA SECURITIES CO LTD (91%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SECURITIES BROKERS (91%); SCANDALS (91%); POLITICS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDICTMENTS (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



636 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Flat on Signs Of Slowdown

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury securities ended little changed yesterday after a day of choppy trading.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond ended unchanged at 94 1/32, leaving its yield at 7.02 percent, also unchanged. Prices of shorter maturities were also essentially flat. 
 Bond prices were bolstered early in the session after the Commerce Department reported that orders for durable goods rose 1.4 percent in April. While the increase was slightly higher than market expectations, much of the month's gain came in orders for the military. As a result, the report provided further evidence that economic growth was slowing and that interest rates might steady.
"I think we're seeing a little relief here as the data we've gotten this morning was a little to the weak side," said Richard Berner, executive vice president and chief economist at the Mellon Bank Corporation.
Most gains, though, were erased in the afternoon after an auction of new two-year notes was met with disappointing demand.
The Treasury sold $16.5 billion of two-year notes at a yield of 6.328 percent, higher than the forecasts of 6.31 to 6.315 percent.
Today, the Treasury sells $12 billion of new five-year notes. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the five-year note was being bid at an average yield of 6.65 percent, up from 6.63 percent late Tuesday.
Few market analysts expect significant price movement before the release of the May employment report on June 6.
The Federal Reserve's policy-making panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, next meets on July 1 and 2, and a large amount of data is scheduled to be released before then. Alan Greenpsan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has said that he favors further tightening of monetary policy if the economy continues to expand rapidly, even in the absence of overt inflationary statistics.
"There's a lot of information to come out before the next F.O.M.C. meeting," Mr. Berner of Mellon Bank said. "The economy would have to turn decisively stronger or inflation higher" for the Fed to move, he added.
Despite the market's caution, trading volume was very heavy yesterday. More than $114 billion in securities were traded yesterday, according to Govpx, a bond pricing service, about 42 percent higher than on a typical Wednesday in the second quarter. But much of the activity was in the when-issued two-year notes.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of two-year notes yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.856
High Yield . . . 6.328%
Low Yield . . . 6.280%
Median Yield . . . 6.312%
Accepted at low price . . . 42%
Total applied for . . . $40,026,880
Accepted . . . $16,501,355
Noncompetitive . . . $1,410,000
Interest set at . . . 6 1/4
 
The two-year notes mature May 31, 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%); IAP (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); ICAP PLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



637 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Blair's Muted Helpmate: Look at Her Now!

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, May 28

 BODY:
The face was the same one that recently figured in hundreds of photo opportunities and front-page pictures around the world. But where there had been a designer suit there was a black robe, on top of the softly layered hairstyle there was a tightly curled white wig, and in place of the perpetual broad smile there was a judicious scowl.
Cherie Blair, Queen's Counsel, was back at work. 
 For two months she had been the constantly beaming consort of her husband, Tony Blair, as he took his Labor Party campaign around the British Isles, and in a memorable moment she joined him in a hand-in-hand promenade along Whitehall while thousands of flag-waving people cheered their arrival at the official 10 Downing Street residence the day after the May 1 election.
A high-powered London lawyer with young children and a host of friends, she was often compared to Hillary Rodham Clinton, just as her husband, a telegenic young politician who reformed his party and thereby captured the political center, was being compared to Bill Clinton.
The Labor campaign just as persistently kept saying that, unlike the American First Lady, whom she will meet on Thursday for the first time, Cherie Booth, as she is known professionally, harbored no political ambitions and would play no role in the new administration.
So last week she returned to her high-backed leather armchair behind the elevated desk in the Mayor's and City of London Court and presided over the case of Dixon v. British Aerospace.
Even though the details sound awfully small-bore for the wife of a head of government -- a worker is seeking redress from British Aerospace for a hernia he suffered when a machine tool drill slipped -- the fact that Cherie Booth is paying attention to them represents a historic moment in this tradition-minded country. No spouse of a Prime Minister has ever held a full-time job before.
In her precedent-setting pursuit, Ms. Booth profits from two other English traditions. The politics-free nature of the judiciary insulates her from suspicion of any conflict of interest and she can move about relatively unmolested by autograph seekers and paparazzi because of the privacy permitted non-royal participants in British public life.
"This is not like Hillary Clinton going into Federal District Court in Washington," said Michael J. McNulty, an American lawyer who has practiced here for 28 years.
Ms. Booth, 42, a highly regarded lawyer in London, had a dazzling academic record at the London School of Economics, topped all candidates in her bar exams, entered practice in 1976 and remarkably swiftly was made a Queen's Counsel in 1995, a title held by only the top 10 percent of English barristers. While these remain predominantly male, a growing number are women.
Indications of the independence of the English judiciary abound, but one is that she was given her Q. C. suffix by a Conservative Lord Chancellor at a time when her husband had already become the high-profile new leader of the Labor Party.
She qualified last year to be an Assistant Recorder, a part-time judge in lower court civil cases, and the first rung on the ladder to becoming a High Court judge, her ultimate ambition. In countries like the United States where judges are often either directly elected or produced from the political process it would seem untenable to have the wife of a national leader rendering judgment in cases that turn on governmental conduct and national law.
Voice that concern in England, and people are taken aback.
"There's absolutely no thought she could be biased," said Denise Kingsmill, a colleague and friend of Ms. Booth's. "Our whole system is designed to eliminate bias."
"It's part of why we put them in wigs and gowns," she continued. "I know some people think it's all a lot of antiquated rubbish, but it has a function. It puts the emphasis on the role the persons are performing, not the persons."
Over the last few months Cherie Booth, a busy mother of three young children, committed lawyer and jurist and an outspoken feminist, underwent a startling change in public personality, suppressing her opinionated side to become Cherie Blair, the adoring and silent partner of her 44-year-old husband as he led his party to its overwhelming victory.
She stood to the side when he spoke, flashed her signature lopsided smile, vigorously pressed the flesh along the police barricades, embraced and kissed her husband at photographers' behest and uttered not a single quoted phrase.
In one uncharacteristic venture, she was guest editor for an issue of the women's magazine Prima, and the public learned of her 30-minute dinner solutions, her warnings about letting the mystery go out of marriage and her assessment of her husband's household skills ("He's very good at polishing shoes and has been known to cook a meal -- I wouldn't say he is intimate with our washing machine, but he does know where it is.") Whoever in the slickly managed Labor campaign thought up this gambit thought better of it. It was the last Cherie Blair was heard from.
Did the women among her friends fault her behavior? "Not at all," said Kathy Lette, a London-based Australian writer. "She had to take the Hillary antidote. The press here is very virile and anti-feminist. We were all supportive of what she needed to do."
Her ability to keep her private persona from the public one lapsed only once, and not until the morning after her husband's election. A delivery man bearing flowers came to the door of the Blairs' Islington home, and she sleepily opened it, forgetting the world press was on the street outside. The picture of her standing barefoot in a wrinkled nightgown, her black hair an unruly bird's nest, was on every front page the next day.
She is the child of touring actors, and her father, Tony Booth, left home when Cherie (the name is pronounced as if it were spelled Sherry) and her sister, Lyndsey, were young girls. The girls were raised by their mother, Gale, in the Lancashire town of Bury. Cherie inherited the Catholicism of her mother and the Socialist views of her father. Tony Blair, by contrast, came from a lifelong Conservative family.
She married Mr. Blair in 1980, and in 1983 made her own foray into politics, losing as the Labor candidate for Parliament in a Tory district in southeastern England while her husband was winning in Sedgefield in the north.
She resolved to focus on the law, not politics. She made her legal specialty employment law and involved herself in issues of sex, race and disability discrimination, domestic violence, child abuse, trade union disputes, sexual harassment, health and safety workplace standards, personnel problems, wrongful dismissals and equal pay claims. She has long been the family breadwinner, and her annual income these days is estimated at more than $350,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cherie Blair, wife of Britain's Prime Minister, at her new home, and dressed for her job as a Queen's Counsel. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JUDGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (89%); POLITICS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CHILDREN (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); BLAIR, CHERIE (CHERIE BOOTH) TONY BLAIR (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



638 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: President Urges Aid for East In Spirit of the Marshall Plan

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, May 28

 BODY:
Celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Marshall Plan to rebuild Western Europe after World War II, President Clinton said today that the West "must complete the noble journey" and bring the former Communist nations of East Europe into a prosperous, united Europe.
The President did not propose a new American aid program, noting that private business and international financial institutions had invested almost $100 billion in the former Eastern bloc countries since the fall of Communism. Instead, Mr. Clinton said, Western nations should encourage more private investment, help these nations establish the rule of law, and teach entrepreneurial skills. 
 "Our generation, like the one before us, must choose," Mr. Clinton said. "Without the threat of the cold war, without the pain of economic ruin, without the fresh memory of World War II's slaughter, it is tempting to pursue our private agendas -- to simply sit back and let history unfold. We must resist the temptation."
Mr. Clinton praised the European Union's plans to open its doors to new member states, a move the formerly Communist nations complain is proceeding far too slowly.
Prime Minister Wim Kok of the Netherlands, speaking before Mr. Clinton, said assistance to the new economies in Central Europe "is needed on a massive scale." He called for a public-private initiative to link East and West Europe and estimated that as much as $100 billion of investment is needed.
"If only because of the sheer magnitude of these needs most of the money will have to come from private investment," Mr. Kok said. But he said government investment guarantees and public money would have to play a role.
Mr. Clinton was escorted by Queen Beatrix into the 13th-century Ridderzaal, or Hall of Knights, where heads of state or government from across Europe gathered to mark the postwar economic assistance formally known as the European Recovery Program.
Over four years, the United States provided nearly $13 billion -- the equivalent of $88 billion in today's dollars -- to help Western Europe rebuild.
Mr. Clinton used the occasion to promote the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a day after Russia and NATO signed their own new charter. He called the signing an "extraordinary milestone."
It was 50 years ago next week -- on June 5, 1947 -- that Secretary of State George C. Marshall proposed an economic recovery plan for Western Europe -- the vanquished and the victors alike -- in a Harvard University commencement address.
With Europe having just survived the harshest winter on record and with the fear of Communist expansion as a spur, Mr. Marshall said the United States was prepared "to assist in the return to normal economic health to the world without which there can be no political stability and no assured peace."
For the Dutch, Marshall Plan money amounted to $109 a year in assistance for every man, woman and child. And Rotterdam, the Netherlands' second largest city, was raised from the rubble of war with American foreign aid money.
At the commemorative ceremony here trumpets and drums played while scenes taken from the historic highlights of the 20th century -- from war devastation to the moon shot -- played on large video screens. And children danced in leotards designed in the colors of the flags of Europe and North America.
In one emotional moment, Mr. Clinton brought the German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to tears as he spoke of a teen-aged German boy who still recalled "the American trucks driving onto the schoolyard bringing soup that warmed hearts and hands." The boy was Mr. Kohl, whom the President called "the first Chancellor of a free and unified Germany."
Another speaker, Gustaaf Sedee, recalled the first American he had ever seen -- a paratrooper of the 82d Airborne Division fighting to liberate his home in 1944.
He described the wrappers on bread that said the food was produced with the assistance of the Marshall Plan. And he told of winning a 1948 essay contest on the Marshall Plan sponsored by The New York Herald Tribune that won him a trip to America and a visit in the Oval Office with President Truman.
"I hereby confess I sort of borrowed a matchbook from that office," he admitted.
Mr. Clinton later attended a rollicking thank-you ceremony in Rotterdam. Thousands of people cheered as Mr. Clinton unveiled a plaque in honor of Mr. Marshall. A children's chorus sang Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign theme song, "Don't Stop (Thinking About Tomorrow)" as red, white and blue balloons -- the colors of the Dutch flag as well as the American -- poured into the air, in a scene worthy of a campaign rally.
Earlier in the day at the European Union, United States and European officials signed two agreements intended to improve cooperation in fighting customs fraud and the smuggling of chemicals used in drug production.
Negotiators for the United States and the 15-nation European Union also reached preliminary agreement on coordinating standards for testing pharmaceuticals, telecommunications equipment, medical devices and other products.
Officials said that while American regulatory agencies will continue to have final say on what can be sold in the United States, the accord could cut costs by avoiding safety testing on both sides of the Atlantic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, applaud a group that sang his 1992 campaign song in Rotterdam, a city rebuilt with Marshall Plan aid. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION ; EUROPEAN UNION HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); MARSHALL PLAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION ; EUROPEAN UNION MARSHALL PLAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; HAGUE (NETHERLANDS); EAST EUROPE; NETHERLANDS; EUROPE (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (55%); 

SUBJECT: MARSHALL PLAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TRENDS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KOK, WIM (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



639 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Fund to Revive Broadway Fare Is Taking Hold

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
In an effort to bring back the serious dramas and small musicals that have almost vanished from Broadway, an unusual coalition of theater owners, producers, and union officials is about to propose a fund of $10 million a year that it says can foster the further revitalization of the theater district.
Seeking to halt a long-term trend that threatens to turn Broadway into a theatrical waxworks dominated by long-running megamusicals and play revivals, the new organization, called the Broadway Initiative, would provide grants or loans to bring in commercially promising work from Off Broadway and regional theaters. 
 The plan, whose success may depend on New York City's ability to provide financial incentives to the theater industry, has set several numerical targets for the next five years: to produce at least 25 plays on Broadway that otherwise would not be there; to increase theater attendance by 3,000 people a day; to boost theatergoing by residents of the New York region by 10 percent, and to bring 75,000 more students into the theaters.
Organizers of the plan said they had kept the city informed about their proposals, and that they were told by representatives of the Giuliani Administration that possible city involvement would be considered when a final proposal was submitted. "It would be premature for the city to comment on any specifics," said Colleen Roche, a spokeswoman for the Mayor's office. "We are very encouraged, however, that the Broadway coalition has come together as tightly as it has." Jack Goldstein, an assistant to the president at Actors Equity, who has served as the informal leader of the coalition, said Broadway was facing "a chronic decline in production."
"There is no single cause or villain or action taken by anyone that caused this," he said, "and there is no single solution. But we are trying to come up with a long-term, thoughtful, comprehensive set of procedures to improve the environment for play production."
Merely as a symbol, the plan carries substantial weight. With the possibility of municipal support dangling before them, representatives of a notoriously fractured and contentious industry have taken the rare step of sitting down together and, moving beyond the finger-pointing stage, addressing serious problems afflicting the Broadway theater.
The timing of the plan, too, has symbolic value. As the Broadway theater gears up for the Tony Awards on Sunday night, and the seasonal migration of tourists begins to gather force, theater in New York City presents every outward sign of vitality. Nearly all 35 Broadway houses are lit. This season, the nominators for the Tony Awards had seven new American musicals to choose from. Gross receipts and attendance are up.
With a week to go until the end of the 1996-97 season, the League of American Theaters and Producers estimates that total gross receipts will be a record $485 million, up from $436 million last year, and attendance will be the second-highest in Broadway's history (exceeded only the 1980-81 season), 10.1 million, up from 9.4 million last year.
But all is not well on Broadway, and has not been for decades. Few new plays make it to Broadway, and those that do, even when welcomed with strong reviews, face long odds of recouping their investment. Christopher Plummer, a heavy favorite to win the Tony for best actor in a play, "Barrymore," performs before a half-empty house at the Music Box Theater. Horton Foote's "Young Man from Atlanta" filled less than a third of the Longacre's 1,096 seats last week.
Broadway has become a showcase for long-running British musicals, musical revivals like this season's "Chicago," and revivals of straight plays, like the hit British production of 'A Doll's House." The shows making the most money today are, for the most part, the same ones that were making big money five years ago: "Cats," "The Phantom of the Opera," "Miss Saigon" and "Les Miserables."
As part of its play-development program, the initiative would provide grants covering up to half the cost of mounting a production that has not reached its full potential audience because of theater size or a repertory schedule that limits its run. Theoretically, because the money would be provided as soon as a decision was made to move to Broadway, theaters would have an easier time attracting investors.
The play-development fund would also provide temporary operating subsidies (up to 40 percent of production costs) for shows in the 19 Broadway houses with fewer than 1,200 seats as a way to help them survive the preview period and the early weeks of a run, when most plays struggle to build an audience, or a seasonal slump. Subsidies could take the form of deferred wages by union workers, reduced theater rent, or help in advertising and marketing.
In an effort to widen the investor pool, the plan proposes a fund to indemnify producers and investors or set a cap on maximum losses an investor can incur.
Negotiations between the city and representatives of the Broadway theater have proceeded very quietly. With only a few exceptions, city officials, theater owners, producers and union leaders involved in planning the initiative declined to be interviewed on the subject until the coalition formally announces its plans after the Tony Awards.
But a draft of the Broadway Initiative's strategic plan obtained from a coalition member provides some insight into the coalition's philosophy and goals, as well as specific proposals and innovations being discussed. The data underlying the plan are contained in a detailed economic assessment of the theater industry carried out last year by Bain & Company, a Boston consulting company.
As outlined in the plan, which is labeled a "discussion draft," the coalition will try to bring about long-term changes in the theater industry by providing the financial incentives and support to draw new plays and small musicals to Broadway. "Development of a more active and vibrant theater environment over a 5-to-10-year period is as much a goal as immediate increases in the number of jobs on Broadway and the higher utilization of theater space," the plan says.
Most of the annual spending, about $6 million, would go toward transferring new plays and small musicals to Broadway from Off Broadway and regional theater. About $3 million would be devoted to programs aimed at expanding and diversifying the theater audience and $1 million to the improvement of theaters and the creation of theater-related buildings like rehearsal spaces.
"At a minimum, the initiative expects to increase average employment within the theater trades as well as theater utilization by 10 to 15 percent within a 3-to-5-year time frame," the plan says. "This would result in increased ticket receipts of $50 million to $60 million a year."
Revenue would come from public and private sources. The plan says these could include a per-ticket contribution by the theaters to generate a minimum of $5 million and contributions by union members actually working in a given week to generate a minimum of $1.2 million. The plan also suggests that money could be raised by the sale of rezoned air rights in the theater district.
Mr. Goldstein said that many details would have to be negotiated before a final version of the initiative is announced in June.
Although the plan provides no details about rezoning or transfers of air rights, people familiar with the negotiations between the city Planning Department and the theater owners say that the city, which would like to encourage development on Eighth Avenue in midtown, is considering a rezoning approach in which anyone wanting to develop sites along Eighth Avenue that exceed current zoning limitations would have to buy air rights from a Broadway theater. Joseph B. Rose, the director of the Planning Department, declined to comment on the rezoning.
Many of the theaters have landmark status and are subject to strict zoning rules governing the sale of air rights. In return for the windfall from air rights, the theaters would have to put a percentage of the money realized into the initiative. Any theater that sold air rights would have to pledge to remain a legitimate theater for the next 25 years.
The city has made no promises to the coalition, and the coalition has asked for none, said Mr. Goldstein, who described the group's approach as coming up with a workable plan that the city, out of enlightened self-interest, would want to accept.
"The city has played an important part, not in making financial commitments, but in encouraging the industry to sit down and address its problems," Mr. Goldstein said.
As described in the plan, the initiative would not try to create hit shows. Rather it would try to improve the quality and range of plays being offered to "widen the stream flowing into Broadway."
"With something like the Broadway Initiative in place, perhaps Paula Vogel's 'How I Learned to Drive' could come to Broadway rather than the Century Theater" on East 15th Street, said Jed Bernstein, executive director of the League of American Theaters and Producers.
"Any fund that can support more productions will lead to better theater,' said Robert Whitehead, a producer who helped foster earlier efforts along these lines. "Our volume of production has fallen to nothing. In Broadway's heyday, you'd have 60 or 70 new productions each year, of which 12 to 15 would survive, and of those several would be pretty good and 2 would be brilliant. The failures gave birth to the successes, and out of it came some of the best, most exciting theater in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Broadway still has its hits, like the long-running musical Cats, above (Martha Swope/"Cats"), but many new productions, like The Young Man From Atlantastarring Rip Torn, right, are faring poorly. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B2)
 
Graphs: "Where What's Old Is New, and What's New Often Closes"
Even as the theater industry prepares for the Tony Awards this weekend, and box offices report brisk business, a new report shows that the theater district is in trouble because the pipeline of new productions is drying up. New works are declining, and often the only productions making money are revivals of past hits, making them more likely to be produced. Graphs show average number of Broadway productions each year, from 1920 to 1990 (by decade) and percentage of new productions and revivals recouping initial investment, from 1950 to 1990 (by decade). (Source: Bain & Company Inc. from Variety magazine data)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROADWAY INITIATIVE (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: BROADWAY INITIATIVE (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



640 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Leading French Candidate Disavows Budget Austerity
The leading conservative candidate for Prime Minister of France disavowed the policy of the incumbent, Alain Juppe, of cutting deficits to get ready for a common European currency. The candidate, Philippe Seguin, said cutting France's 12.8 percent unemployment rate would be his top priority. Mr. Juppe plans to step down after Sunday's second round of legislative elections. A12
 
Controlled Voting in Indonesia
President Suharto of Indonesia said in an election-eve speech that democratic development in his country would be "a long process." Today's elections will be won by the ruling Golkar party; Megawati Sukarnoputri, the leader of a banned opposition party, said she would not vote. A3
 
Clinton Toasts Marshall Plan
President Clinton celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Marshall Plan, the effort to help Western Europe recover from World War II. Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Wim Kok of the Netherlands both stressed the need for a similar program in Eastern Europe but said private investment should play the leading role. A12
 
Russia and Ukraine in Navy Deal
Russia and Ukraine announced that they had reached an agreement on the Black Sea fleet. Under the accord, concluded in Kiev by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia and Prime Minister Pavlo Lazerenko of Ukraine, Russia will be able to keep its portion of the former Soviet fleet for 20 years at the Crimean port of Sevastopol. A9
 
Swiss Arms Trade Revealed
A Swiss historian revealed archival evidence detailing Switzerland's wartime sale of weapons to Nazi Germany, further weakening the Swiss case against charges that its self-described neutral wartime conduct prolonged World War II. A8
 
Protest Broken Up in Kinshasa
Soldiers in Kinshasa broke up a small, peaceful demonstration against President Laurent Kabila, arresting and beating dozens of protesters and firing guns in the air. Far fewer people turned out to support the main opposition leader, Etienne Tshisekedi, than had been expected. A13
 
NATIONAL A16-19, B9-10
 
Bombing Jury Hears Tape As Defense Case Ends
Timothy J. McVeigh's defense lawyers closed their case by playing a tape on which a major Government witness, Michael J. Fortier, boasted to his brother that he could "tell stories all day long" to Federal agents. Mr. Fortier told jurors that he and Mr. McVeigh had cased the Oklahoma City Federal building a few months before the bombing and that Mr. McVeigh had told him of the bombing plan. A1
 
In Texas, Shock at Being Alive
Texans who survived the tornadoes that devastated the small town of Jarrell said they were amazed to be alive. At least 27 people died in Jarrell alone and concrete foundation slabs were all that was left of dozens of homes. Two dozen people were missing. A1
 
United States v. Joe Camel
The Federal Trade Commission charged that R.J. Reynolds illegally aimed its Joe Camel advertising campaign at children. The agency is seeking to ban the widely recognized cartoon figure and to force the company to fund a nationwide anti-smoking campaign aimed at teen-agers. The company said it did not target under-age smokers. A1
 
Florida officials decided to sell off the state retirement fund's $825 million in tobacco stocks. They said they had become too risky as investments. B10
 
C.I.A. Records Destroyed
The Central Intelligence Agency said it could not fulfill its pledge to make public the files from its secret mission to overthrow the Government of Iran in 1953: almost all the documents had been destroyed or lost decades ago. A historian who was a member of the C.I.A.'s staff in 1992 and 1993 said he believed records on other major cold war covert operations had also been burned. A19
 
Earhart Imitator Arrives Safely
A Texas businesswoman flying a restored plane of the type used by Amelia Earhart completed a round-the-world flight. The pilot, Linda Finch, is believed to be the second woman ever to complete the path Earhart was following when she disappeared 60 years ago. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
5 Hasidim Are Accused Of Defrauding Government
Five members of a Hasidic community in Rockland County, N.Y., were charged with systematically defrauding the Federal and state governments of tens of millions of dollars in Pell grants, student loans and other assistance. A1
 
Molinari Eases Into TV
Susan Molinari rejected the notion that her career change from Congress to CBS might be a disservice to her constituents or to journalism. She and her new boss said she would offer analysis of the news, but no commentary, and would not endorse any candidates who might seek to succeed her in Congress. B3
 
Pataki Aide Gets SUNY Post
Donald G. Dunn, Governor Pataki's first deputy secretary, was appointed to the No. 2 job at the State University of New York. His appointment added to a debate within the university over whether Mr. Pataki has politicized SUNY as never before. B1
 
Feiffer Quits Village Voice
Jules Feiffer, the Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist, quit The Village Voice. The Voice's publisher said the new editor, Donald H. Forst, wanted to sharply reduce Mr. Feiffer's $75,000-a-year salary and use the money to hire several new cartoonists. B1
 
ARTS C13-20
 
Seeking Broadway Repertoire
A proposal drafted by a coalition of theater owners, producers, and union officials would create a fund of $10 million a year to bring back the serious dramas and small musicals that have almost vanished from Broadway. It would provide grants and loans to help those shows move to Broadway from off-Broadway or regional theaters. The city's role in the program has not been determined. A1
 
'Titanic' to Arrive Late
The opening of the movie "Titanic" was delayed to Dec. 19 because technical problems in its production. The change from the original date of July 2 delighted people at other studios who feared having their movies compete with "Titanic." C13
 
Dylan, Ill, Cancels Tour
Bob Dylan canceled a European concert tour after checking into a hospital with chest pains. His record company said he had histoplasmosis, which it said was a potentially fatal infection. B5
 
HOME C1-12
 
SPORTS B11-18
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
German Gold Plan Draws Fire
The German Government said that to insure that it would lead the introduction of the single European currency in 1999, it would erase most of this year's budget deficit by revaluing the German central bank's gold reserves to book a quick profit. The bank vigorously objected. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D19
 
David M. Ludlum
The nation's foremost historian of American weather, he also founded Weatherwise, a magazine for weather enthusiasts, and published it single-handedly for three decades. He was 86. D19
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Ticket scalpers, de Klerk's siege mentality, topics.
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Chronicle D20
 
Bridge C17
 
Crossword C20
 
Weather C18

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (86%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (53%); MARSHALL PLAN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (86%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRIME MINISTERS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (88%); BOMBINGS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); ARMS TRADE (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WITNESSES (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); HISTORY (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); JURY TRIALS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); LAWYERS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



641 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: MCVEIGH'S DEFENSE WRAPS UP ITS CASE AT BOMBING TRIAL

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, May 28

 BODY:
Five weeks after testimony began in the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh, his lawyers today unleashed their final salvo against the prosecution's most powerful witness, and then rested their case.
The chief target on this final day of evidence was the credibility of Michael J. Fortier, Mr. McVeigh's old Army buddy, who testified for the Government two weeks ago that Mr. McVeigh had told him of plans to build a truck bomb and that both of them then cased the Federal Building in Oklahoma City a few months before just such a bomb demolished it. 
 In attacking Mr. Fortier today, the defense played recordings of a series of his telephone conversations that were wiretapped by Federal agents in the weeks immediately after the bombing, when Mr. Fortier himself was considered a possible suspect. In those recordings, turned over to the defense as part of the pretrial process, he boasted that he could mislead Federal agents and make a million dollars through book rights from his connection to Mr. McVeigh.
"I can tell a fable; I can tell stories all day long," Mr. Fortier said in one conversation, with his brother, John.
Not long after the jury had heard the tapes, Stephen Jones and the rest of the defense team concluded their three-and-a-half-day presentation of evidence, without having called Mr. McVeigh to testify. Both the prosecution and the defense are to make closing arguments on Thursday, and the jury's deliberations could begin as early as that afternoon.
Surprising many with its speed, the trial will have moved from jury selection to jury deliberation in slightly less than two months.
"Come to us tomorrow morning ready to receive this case," Judge Richard P. Matsch told the jury at the end of today's session.
The jurors are expected to be sequestered by Judge Matsch throughout the deliberations, in which they will determine whether Mr. McVeigh, charged with murder and conspiracy, is responsible for the worst terrorist attack ever on American soil: the blast that killed 168 people and wounded hundreds of others on April 19, 1995.
If convicted, he could face execution.
Today, in their final effort to punch holes in the Government's case, defense lawyers used not only four wiretapped conversations but also one witness to portray Mr. Fortier as a lying, conniving drug dealer.
Instead of the clean-shaven, business-suited witness who testified two weeks ago, the jurors today heard the slurred voice of a young, unemployed man who complained of back pain and who glimpsed gold in his connection to Mr. McVeigh, who not long earlier had been taken into Federal custody, charged with the bombing.
"The less I say right now, the bigger the price later -- there will be books, book rights," Mr. Fortier said to another Army friend, Lonny Hubbard, who called Mr. Fortier's trailer home in Kingman, Ariz., three weeks after the bombing.
"I'm the key, the head honcho, General Crank," Mr. Fortier chortled. "I hold the key to it all."
Apparently expecting to be called as a trial witness at some point, Mr. Fortier also joked, "I could pick my nose and wipe it on the judge's desk."
As Mr. Fortier's recorded voice echoed through the still courtroom, Judge Matsch sat sphinx-like, not batting an eye.
The witness called by the defense today was Deborah Brown, who has known Mr. Fortier since grade school and who employed his wife, Lori, at her Kingman tanning salon, the Beach Club, from May 1993 through August 1994. Mrs. Fortier, like her husband, was an important Government witness, testifying two weeks ago that Mr. McVeigh had told her that he planned to bomb the Federal Building.
Ms. Brown testified that she had bought amphetamines "5 to 10 times" from the Fortiers. "It ranged from $80 to $100 a gram," she said, "depending on how quickly they were trying to get rid of it."
She said the Fortiers were so poor that "their baby was on some kind of state assistance to get formula and diapers."
On cross-examination, the prosecution tried to minimize the damage to the Fortiers' credibility, getting Ms. Brown to describe methamphetamine as little more than pep pills.
It "gives me more energy," she said, adding that its use had never caused memory loss or hallucinations in her.
Ms. Brown said that through the Fortiers she had got to know Mr. McVeigh, who, during his intermittent stays in Arizona in the years preceding the bombing, regularly picked up his mail at a commercial post office in Kingman, two doors from her salon in a strip mall.
Ms. Brown, who now lives in Seattle, noted that she had no guarantee she would not be prosecuted for the drug use to which she testified today. Nonetheless, she said, "I feel Tim should get a fair trial, whether I incriminate myself or not."
Turning to television monitors for their final evidence, defense lawyers then played a videotape of a CNN interview conducted with Mr. Fortier one week after the bombing.
"My friend Tim McVeigh is not the face of terror that is reported on the cover of Time magazine," Mr. Fortier said in the interview, which Mr. McVeigh watched intently from his seat in the courtroom. "I do not believe that Tim blew up any building in Oklahoma."
Mr. Fortier has pleaded guilty to charges that include failing to tell Federal law-enforcement officials of the bombing plot, and faces up to 23 years in prison. But he is hoping for a lesser sentence after the trials of Mr. McVeigh and of Terry L. Nichols, also charged in the bombing.
In court two weeks ago, Mr. Jones, the lead lawyer for Mr. McVeigh, tried to get Mr. Fortier to say he changed his story a month after the bombing in an effort to win a reduction in prison time. Mr. Fortier replied then, "Before May 17, I was lying to the F.B.I. and to the media and other people."
After the defense rested today, the prosecution called three rebuttal witnesses in rapid succession. With the end of the evidence phase, the prosecution had called 137 witnesses, the defense 25.
The modest defense followed Judge Matsch's refusal to allow Mr. Jones to present theories of a larger bombing conspiracy that involved foreign and domestic terrorists but not Mr. McVeigh. The defense team then tried to show that the real bomber had died in the explosion, that sloppy work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation had tainted evidence and that the Fortiers were drug-taking liars.
"The evidence is now closed," Judge Matsch said shortly before noon today. Turning to the 12 jurors and the 6 alternates, he explained, "That means you have heard all the testimony you are going to hear in this trial."
In the bright summer sunshine outside the downtown Federal courthouse here, the parents of a bombing victim said they were pleased with the handling of the case by both the judge and the prosecution.
"Judge Matsch has done a fantastic job of controlling the court," said Charles Tomlin of Enid, Okla., whose son, Rick, was killed in the bombing. Referring to the handling of the O. J. Simpson criminal trial, Mr. Tomlin added: "He has brought justice back in the courtroom. He has stopped this Mickey Mouse stuff."
Mr. Tomlin, who is retired, said he had attended every court session since testimony began on April 25. "I didn't want anybody sentenced who was not guilty," he said. "Nobody was guilty until the evidence started flowing in."
Confident of a guilty verdict leading to an execution, his wife, Blanche Tomlin, volunteered, "I'd like to push the button."
A few steps away, another man from Enid, Mr. Jones, seemed to exude confidence in an acquittal.
"We have done everything we came to Denver to do," he said, his summer fedora set at a jaunty angle. "We've done our best."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA); UNITED STATES (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES BOMBINGS (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); WIRETAPPING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: MCVEIGH, TIMOTHY JAMES; FORTIER, MICHAEL J

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



642 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Buying by Military Drives Durable Goods Orders
Orders for durable goods rose 1.4 percent in April, in part because of unexpectedly large orders by the Pentagon.
The rise, which was led by gains in transportation equipment, much of it for the military, erased about two-thirds of a March decline. But orders for electronic equipment slumped for a second month. [Page D5.] 

Dow Falls, but Nasdaq Inches Up
Stocks closed mixed, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 26.18 points, to 7,357.23, even though gainers exceeded losers on the Big Board. A continuing rally in computer companies helped send the Nasdaq up 0.97, to 1,410.18, a third straight high. [D8.]
 
Yields above 7 percent on the 30-year Treasury bond lured away some investors from the stock market, though the bond's yield finished unchanged at 7.02 percent. [D15.]
 
F.T.C. Steps Up Joe Camel Fight
The F.T.C. charged that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco illegally appeals to minors with its Joe Camel advertising campaign. The agency contended in an administrative complaint that the company violated fair trade practice laws by promoting a lethal and addictive product to children, who cannot legally buy or use it. The company denies the charges. [A1.]
 
Florida's $61 billion public retirement fund will sell its $825 million worth of tobacco stocks because of concerns that the proliferation of lawsuits against cigarette companies and the prospect of tighter regulation make the shares too risky as investments. [B10.]
 
Seagram Cuts Time Warner Stake
Seagram has sold more than half its stake in Time Warner for $1.39 billion. The sale increases Seagram's war chest. It also means that a competitor is no longer Time Warner's second-largest shareholder. [D2.]
 
Novell to Cut 1,000 Jobs
Novell, the troubled maker of computer networking software, said that it would cut its work force by 18 percent, and it reported disappointing quarterly results. [D5.]
 
S.E.C. Case Against Mutual Fund
The S.E.C. accused the portfolio manager of the Parnassus Fund, a mutual fund that practices "socially responsible" investing, of the illegal use of brokerage commissions generated by the fund and of overvaluing a security in the fund's portfolio. [D5.]
 
Former Murdoch Aide Joins ABC
Preston Padden, a lawyer and former Washington lobbyist, was named president of the ABC Television Network, a month after ending his seven-year tenure as one of Rupert Murdoch's top aides. [D6.]
 
Donna Karan Plans Cost-Cutting
Donna Karan International said that it would cut its work force in the United States by 4 percent and reduce its annual number of runway fashion shows, in an effort to cut costs and bolster profits. [D2.]
 
Intel Fights Back Against Digital
Intel countersued Digital Equipment, which accused it of patent infringement two weeks ago, and suggested that it might curtail chip sales to Digital. Analysts said Intel stood to lose little in the dispute, while struggling Digital had jeopardized the quarter of its computer line that uses Intel's chips. [D4.]
 
LVMH Plans to Buy Guinness Stake
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the French luxury-goods concern, said that it planned to buy Guinness's half of a jointly owned distribution venture. The step could complicate the planned merger of Guinness, the British brewing and liquor company, with Grand Metropolitan, the British liquor and food giant. [D3.]
 
Politics and Mexico's Money Supply
The amount of cash in circulation in Mexico has risen, causing suspicion that the Government of Ernesto Zedillo might be priming the economic pump before critical elections. But analysts say that despite the pressure, the Government has not relaxed its economic policies. [D3.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,357.23, Down 26.18
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.02%, Unchanged
The Dollar -- 115.81 yen, Down 0.87

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (90%); ETHICAL INVESTING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); NETWORK TELEVISION (84%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (66%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (62%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); PATENTS (50%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



643 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Put Up, Shut Up, Hang Up

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
As the Arab-Israeli peace process continues sliding downhill, American officials say they may soon have to opt for one of two extremes: either "The Plan" or "The Phone Number." Either the President lays down, publicly, exactly what steps the U.S. believes Israelis and Palestinians must take to get the process back on track, or he gives them both the White House phone number, 202-456-1414, and tells them to call when they're serious. As one top White House official put it: "Either we step forward or we step backward, but where we are now is not working."
The temptation to walk is great. It would leave Yasir Arafat and Benjamin Netanyahu both standing stark naked before their own publics, without any U.S. mediators to hide behind or blame. But such strategic neglect would come at a price the U.S. may not want to pay. Here's why: 
 Mr. Arafat is not and has never been a democrat. He is at heart a typical Arab autocrat, for whom corruption, censorship and abuse of political opponents come naturally. Yet as a result of the Oslo process, Mr. Arafat has also presided over the creation of a Palestinian parliament, in the freest election ever in the Arab world. Palestinian elites were hopeful that as Mr. Arafat shifted the basis of his authority from leader of an armed struggle to leader of a peace process bringing Palestinians land and prosperity, he would be willing to -- indeed would have to -- tolerate more democracy within Palestinian life. In Jordan, too, King Hussein began fostering a freely elected Parliament and freer press to broaden his legitimacy for making peace with Israel and reforming Jordan's economy.
With the collapse of the Oslo process these baby steps toward democratization are being quashed, and Mr. Arafat and King Hussein are reverting to form. This is, in part, because both men had made huge bets on Oslo. As it crumbles, they feel increasingly politically exposed. Their critics are now out in full force, declaring, "I told you this would never work." And so their natural inclination is to silence all critics before they become a serious political challenge.
Mr. Arafat's outrageous arrest of one of the finest Palestinian journalists, Daoud Kuttab, is a good example. Mr. Kuttab's sin was that his infant Palestinian educational television station, a direct outgrowth of the peace process and the only real competitor to Mr. Arafat's official station, was broadcasting debates of the Palestinian legislature, another outgrowth of the peace process. The Palestinian legislators often criticize Mr. Arafat's rule. When things were going well he was ready to ignore much of it, but with his peace strategy in shambles he sees this sort of criticism as a more serious threat, and so he arrests Mr. Kuttab. (He finally released him Tuesday.) In Jordan, King Hussein, also feeling besieged, has been clamping down on the press and tightening rules for who can run for office.
Mr. Netanyahu loves to lecture the Arab states about how they must become democracies. But he is just trying to score propaganda points. Because Bibi is utterly blind to the relationship between the peace process and the process of internal change in the Arab world. Yitzhak Rabin chose not to build in Jerusalem because King Hussein wrote him and said such a move would badly undercut the King at home. With Bibi, King Hussein comes to Israel, asks him not to build in Jerusalem, and Bibi announces -- at a joint news conference with the King -- that he is going ahead anyway. Hello?
It would be absurd to suggest that the peace process is a cure-all for Arab politics. Democratization will only come to the Arab world after fundamental changes in Arab political culture. But the peace process helps promote internal changes, opens Arab societies and business to more outside contacts and puts some power in the hands of Arab democrats, like Daoud Kuttab. That is exactly why Syria's Hafez al-Assad fears the peace process. It's also why fledgling Arab democrats in Palestine or Jordan will be much worse off without it.
Which is also why, as much as I'd love to stick Mr. Arafat and Mr. Netanyahu with the phone number, that would be too easy on them. They might never dial the phone. The U.S. needs to come up with a clear-cut plan that engages every Israeli and Palestinian, presents them with some real choices and, ideally, enlists their pressure to move forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (69%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (77%); JOURNALISM (68%); CENSORSHIP (66%); CORRUPTION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



644 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Plan to Freeze Property Taxes

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Jack Collins said yesterday that he planned to introduce legislation to freeze property tax rates for an estimated 212,000 low-income elderly and disabled homeowners.
Mr. Collins, a Republican of Pittsgrove, said those who qualify for the program, which would cost $18.5 million in the first year, would never have to pay more than they are paying this year. 
 State Senator Bernard F. Kenny Jr., Democrat of Hoboken and the assistant minority leader, dismissed the Speaker's initiative as an election-year gimmick.
"The Whitman fiscal policies have been disastrous for all homeowners who feel the constant pressure of upward-spiraling property taxes," he said, referring to the policies of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; AGED; HANDICAPPED; LAW AND LEGISLATION PROPERTY TAX (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; COLLINS, JACK (SPEAKER) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



645 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Restive Indonesians Find Little Hope in Vote

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, May 28

 BODY:
Something happened on the way to the thoroughly engineered Government landslide that is widely expected on Thursday in a parliamentary election here in the world's fourth most populous country.
An often violent monthlong campaign produced an outpouring of disaffection with the 31-year rule of President Suharto, a tenure that has brought Indonesia increasing prosperity but little political openness. 
 Although the Government has sought to control every aspect of the vote -- restricting campaign activities, mobilizing Government workers, vetting candidates for all three parties and reviewing their speeches -- a widespread restiveness and frustration have made themselves felt in rallies, riots and a broad and illegal campaign to boycott the vote.
"I want to see change in Indonesia," Mohammad Feli, a 21-year-old art student, said as he eyed the soldiers guarding his alley here in the capital as the campaign ended last week.
"There is too much unemployment in Indonesia," he said. "I want justice and equality for everyone. I want human rights. I want a system like overseas, like in America."
But in an election-eve speech today, Mr. Suharto said democratic development in Indonesia would be "a long process." He asserted that a strictly controlled political system was necessary to assure stability and economic development.
Indeed, the riots that have shaken the country since last July, when mobs rampaged through Jakarta, appear only to have strengthened the Government's sense that Indonesia is too volatile to allow openness.
"What we have seen in the streets is the revenge of the poor," said Juwono Sudarsono, vice governor of the Indonesian defense college.
"A lot of my colleagues argue for American-style openness," he said. "They talk of the cut and thrust of democracy. Well, you get a real cut and thrust here, with people using knives to kill each other. Openness among the poor is like giving them a lethal weapon."
Elections in this nation of 200 million people, which the Government calls "festivals of democracy," are more ritual than substance, offering a rare forum every five years for political expression but producing little effect on the leadership.
The 500-member Parliament, made up of 425 elected representatives and 75 members of the military, is largely ceremonial. If Mr. Suharto, 75, chooses to stay on for a seventh term, as most people expect, he will be endorsed next year by a People's Consultative Assembly in which Parliament will be joined by 500 additional delegates selected by the Government.
And even if Mr. Suharto, known for his surprises, chooses to retire, there is no strong opposition figure in a position to replace him. When people speculate about the future, the guessing game is over who the President might select to carry on his legacy.
Over the years he has seen to it that no potential successor emerged. He has named a new Vice President with each election, and a chief virtue of the current incumbent, Try Sutrisno, is his blandness.
A year ago, when the leader of one of the non-governmental parties, Megawati Sukarnoputri, showed signs of presenting a real opposition, the Government engineered her ouster as party chief.
The split that resulted has in effect neutered her party, the Indonesian Democratic Party. The Government's election board did not approve either Mrs. Megawati or her supporters as candidates, and Mrs. Megawati -- the daughter of Sukarno, the first President -- has announced she would not vote.
But despite the restlessness born of his long tenure and of the country's stunted democratic system, Mr. Suharto has stated repeatedly that "we will not change a system that has proven effective."
Some foreign and Indonesian political experts suggest that the recent violence was as least in part a result of the frustration and political immaturity bred by Mr. Suharto's closed political system. An Indonesian election monitoring group that is not sanctioned by the Government asserted this week that the campaign violence resulted from "inadequate political room and inadequate socialization of nonviolent values and the accumulation of social frustration."
With shocking suddenness, a variety of local conflicts have exploded into convulsions of vandalism, arson and looting often aimed at the Chinese and Christian minorities, who are seen as symbols of affluence in Indonesia, the most populous Muslim nation. Banks, shopping centers, car dealerships and Government offices have been attacked, as well as churches and Buddhist temples.
In one of the worst incidents, as many as 130 people died on the last day of the campaign in the remote town of Banjermasin when they were trapped in a shopping center that was set on fire by rioters.
[Violence continued during the five-day cooling off period after the campaign officially ended. On Thursday, as the polls opened, the police in East Timor reported 12 campaign-related deaths the day before, Reuters reported, quoting the police chief, Col. Yusuf Muharam.]
But although the Government system has hardly changed over the last three decades, Indonesia has undergone broad transformations that are straining the social fabric.
The economy has continued to grow at 7 to 8 percent a year, and the inflation rate is less than 7 percent. Jakarta has swollen into a vast and increasingly modern metropolis.
But economic growth has brought sharp disparities in wealth, widespread unemployment and underemployment, rapid urbanization and social disruption and unredressed seizures of land for new factories, supermarkets, golf courses, housing developments and whole new towns carved out of the rice fields.
One of the main problems Mr. Suharto's Government faces is an income gap. A thin layer of society has grown very wealthy very quickly. A broad underclass remains very poor. In between, only about 18 million people make up a middle class that Mr. Juwono said might form the basis of a healthy democracy.
Another crucial problem is a generation gap. The violence and the most passionate opposition rallies have mostly involved the young and the poor, a fast-growing sector that some analysts say is the greatest threat to stability.
Of the nearly 125 million eligible voters, fully 20 million have reached voting age only since the last election. Many are unemployed and angry, with some 2.1 million seeking to enter the work force each year.
More than 80 million people are too young to remember the poverty, hunger and political chaos of the 1960's, when Mr. Suharto came to power. They did not experience the purge of Communists in 1965 that led to the deaths of 500,000 people.
They take for granted the near-universal schooling, health care and basic services the Government has provided over the last three decades.
Newly connected to the outside world through mass communications, they are demanding more say in local and national affairs. They are protesting widespread corruption, Government abuses and an often unresponsive local government and judiciary system.
These themes distilled themselves into a generalized mood of defiance and dissatisfaction in the final days of the campaign.
"We are the party of the poor!" a demonstrator in Jakarta shouted, waving the green banner of the United Development Party.
An unemployed bus driver named Ambrosius looked on from among the soldiers who guarded the streets.
"The future is gloomy," said Ambrosius, 47, who like many Indonesians uses only one name. "So many people have no job. There has to be change."
His friend Hilarius, who is also unemployed, saw little hope of that.
"Whoever is in charge, we are still going to be coolies," he said. "That's the reality. Change is going to take many years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: During a rehearsal yesterday for today's election in Indonesia, a civil servant counted ballots at a Jakarta polling station. The Government has kept tight control over the campaign and is expected to win easily. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Indonesia highlighting Jakarta: Jakarta has grown into a vast and increasingly modern metropolis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RIOTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BOYCOTTS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



646 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Job Increase Reported

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey said yesterday that the state would gain more than 10,000 new jobs over a two-year period, thanks in part to her business incentive program.
Flanked by executives of four large companies that are expanding in New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman declared her program a success. The program provides tax breaks and cash to companies. "This is what the Business Employment Incentive Program was meant to do: create jobs and increase opportunities for New Jersey families," she said.
Under the program, the state has paid 48 companies about $37 million. 
 Executives from Hoechst Marion Roussel, a pharmaceutical company in Bridgewater; KPMG Peat Marwick L.L.P., a business services firm in Bergen County; the Hewlett-Packard Company, which has a lab in Florham Park, and the Pershing division of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in Jersey City, the securities unit of the Equitable Companies, all said that the state's labor market and the incentive program were key factors in their decisions to remain and expand in the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (70%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (70%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



647 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Skilled or Not, Immigrants Aid U.S. Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your May 27 editorial "Immigrants and the Economy" makes a number of important points, but its policy recommendations could undermine the goals you espouse. 
 You call for new policies that stress the admission of "highly educated" or "highly skilled" immigrants. Yet newcomers, especially in New York, integrate into the economy through kinship and family networks. Current policies stressing family unification have created the very portals to the economy that have produced the benefits you praise.
You note that despite their positive national economic impact, immigrants are costly to localities like New York. But this is true only in the short run. After a period of adjustment, immigrants and their children move up the economic ladder, creating new enterprise and filling economic voids.
Maximizing immigrants' contributions requires full integration into American society. Congress has focused only on internal management issues in the naturalization program and not on the slowdown that has more than doubled the waiting time for a citizenship application, to more than a year in most large cities. When immigrants want to contribute to their new country, we should welcome them rather than erect new barriers to full membership in our society.
 
GARY E. RUBIN
New York, May 27, 1997
 
The writer is director of public policy for the New York Association for New Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ASSOCIATION FOR NEW AMERICANS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ASSOCIATION FOR NEW AMERICANS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATURALIZATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, GARY E

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



648 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 29, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Help Congo Now

BYLINE: By Jeffrey D. Sachs and Robert I. Rotberg; Jeffrey D. Sachs, who has advised Poland and other countries on economic policy, directs the Harvard Institute for International Development. Robert I. Rotberg coordinates the institute's southern Africa programs.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
The United States, France, Belgium, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank helped create the disaster of Mobutu Sese Seko's Zaire. Today the West has a moral duty to help rebuild Congo, as the country is now called, even if the new leader isn't making the task easy.
So far, Laurent Kabila has shown little interest in sharing power with the opposition. It seems likely that he will rely more on direct military support from Uganda, Rwanda and Angola to consolidate his rule than on the allegiance of his countrymen. 
 Yet, all uncertainty about Mr. Kabila aside, this is the moment when well-directed Western efforts can have their greatest effect in nudging the new Government toward observing basic human rights, stabilizing the economy and restarting rudimentary public services.
Our good will should be demonstrated first; we can hope that Mr. Kabila's can follow. How do we insure that we aren't creating another Mr. Mobutu? All aid should be provided step by step, conditional on the gradual development of economic order, political freedom and the rule of law.
First, the United States should abandon its calls for early elections. These will have to wait. The experience of neighboring Uganda is instructive. Since President Yoweri Museveni came to power in 1986, Uganda has recovered from the most harrowing depths of violence and economic collapse to become one of Africa's fastest-growing countries, while improving its human rights record.
Restoring basic public order -- demilitarizing, inoculating against infectious disease, resettling refugees, rebuilding roads and power plants -- is a surer underpinning of peace and future political reconciliation than holding elections in the midst of chaos. This gradual approach has also worked for Mozambique, which was locked in civil war until 1992 and held free elections two years later.
The West must also work with the new Government to recover the Mobutu clan's stolen loot. Mr. Mobutu pocketed much of the $10 billion in loans he received over the years, yet Western governments, needing a cold-war ally, looked the other way. Now the West can seize and sell his real estate holdings in Europe and Africa, while European countries must step up efforts to freeze his bank accounts. Any money recovered should go to the Government of Congo.
The least of Congo's worries should be the servicing of Mr. Mobutu's debts. In the short term, the country should be given legal protection to avoid harassment by creditors and the seizure of its assets abroad. In the longer run, Congo needs assurances that the West will cancel most or all of its $14 billion in debts (almost three times its gross national product).
Debt relief in such cases is vital. In the early 1990's, Poland, for example, was destitute, so Western governments and banks forgave about $15 billion in outstanding loans; last year Poland had Europe's highest growth rate.
Congo also needs money to pay the police, buy vaccines, support war refugees and rebuild roads. The Government has no taxation system, and inflation has rendered the currency worthless. The World Bank and especially the Europeans -- historically the biggest meddlers in Zaire's affairs -- should provide the bulk of the hard currency of about $900 million in the next year. For its part, the United States should provide some money as well as food and medicine. It can also do more to help relief agencies fight disease.
There can be no illusions of quick progress in Congo. Its wealth has been pillaged for decades, and the Belgian colonizers did nothing to build the foundations for self-governance before they left in 1960. Today the Western nations, once agents of despair in Zaire, can help to start the rebuilding of one of the most troubled parts of the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); UGANDA (93%); FRANCE (92%); AFRICA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); RWANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); UGANDA (93%); FRANCE (92%); AFRICA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); RWANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TRENDS (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); REFUGEES (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D; ROTBERG, ROBERT I; KABILA, LAURENT (PRES) YOWERI KAGUTA MUSEVENI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997



649 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Helped by Weak Data In Japan and Outlook for Euro

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar recovered from early losses to end mostly higher yesterday, strengthening on surprisingly weak Japanese economic data and growing fear about the credibility of Europe's planned single currency.
The dollar was further helped by a report from the Bridge News Service that Japan's central bank feels the Japanese economy is too fragile for an increase in interest rates. 
 "There had been speculation the Bank of Japan was on the verge of raising rates," said Stephen Jury, managing director of foreign exchange at the Union Bank of Switzerland's New York branch. "So the dollar gained."
Japan's interest rates have hovered at record lows for more than one and a half years, which has depressed demand for yen. But recent talk that Japan's economy is strengthening, coupled with rising yields for Japanese bonds, had encouraged optimism that the period of low rates was ending.
In New York, the dollar settled at 116.28 yen, up from 115.81 late Wednesday. The dollar traded at 1.6966 marks, up from 1.6943. The pound rose to $1.6404 from $1.6399.
Traders said the main impact on the dollar came earlier in Tokyo trading when the release of weaker-than-expected Japanese industrial production figures for April diminished optimism that interest rates would rise soon. The data showed production declined four-tenths of 1 percent from a month earlier. Analysts had expected an increase of seven-tenths of 1 percent.
The dollar was also supported by uncertainty over the outlook for the single European currency, the euro, scheduled to begin in January 1999.
Traders said the possibility of a Socialist-led government in France after parliamentary elections this weekend strengthened the view that the strict fiscal criteria for participation in the euro might be diluted.
Another reason for the uncertainty stemmed from an unusual dispute between the Bundesbank and the Government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl over revaluing gold reserves, which would help Germany meet the criteria for euro participation. The Bundesbank says that such one-time accounting maneuvers will undermine the euro's credibility. Mr. Kohl has said he will press ahead with the change anyway.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (71%); UBS (NYSE) (71%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION UBS AG (71%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); BONDS (76%); BRITISH POUND (72%); ELECTIONS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); 

PERSON: HELMUT KOHL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



650 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: In London, 2 Young Guys Sit Talking About Democracy

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, May 29

 BODY:
Perhaps it was predestined that America's "New Democrat" President and Britain's "New Labor" Prime Minister would give fresh life to the idea of a "special relationship." For Bill Clinton and Tony Blair were having such a baby-boomer love fest today that Mr. Blair virtually issued a generational political manifesto on their behalf.
Standing beside Mr. Clinton at a news conference in 10 Downing Street's own Rose Garden, Mr. Blair ticked off subjects of agreement. The two men picked up on each other's thoughts and phrases. They lingered long on their efforts to pull their respective political parties away from old orthodoxies. When Mr. Clinton spoke, Mr. Blair nodded emphatically and smiled. 
 And, brashly, the 44-year-old Laborite, who brought his party its first general victory in two decades, proclaimed, "We agreed too, and have for some time, that this is a new era which calls for a new-generation politics and a new-generation leadership."
"This is the generation," he pressed on, "that prefers reason to doctrine, that is strong in ideals but indifferent to ideology."
Next to him Mr. Clinton, 50, grayer and softer spoken, looked strangely like the elder statesman.
Mr. Blair has been called a "Clinton clone" because of his embrace of unabashed moderation and his makeover of his left-leaning party. But the two telegenic politicians -- both lawyers who studied at Oxford -- reveled today in the frequent comparisons between them. At times their words were so similar that listeners were hard pressed to tell which man was speaking, if not for the contrast between Mr. Clinton's soft southern tones and Mr. Blair's staccato enthusiasm.
For example, guess which man said of his political thinking, "I don't think it's the end of ideology but I think it's the end of yesterday's ideology"? (Mr. Clinton said it; Mr. Blair nodded in agreement.)
The two leaders also displayed a meeting of minds on restarting the Northern Ireland peace talks. In a clear message to the Irish Republican Army, Mr. Clinton, who has staked much of his prestige on the effort to end the bloodshed, said peace talks "can only succeed if there is an unequivocal cease-fire in word and deed."
Mr. Clinton saw Mr. Blair on Tuesday in Paris when they were among 17 leaders signing an agreement between Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. But the President is a politican who loves a good campaign, and he has paid close attention to Labor's landslide victory, so he asked for the full-scale meeting with Mr. Blair on his way back to Washington.
Mr. Blair's troops and the Clintonites have been cross-pollinating for years as each sought to drag their political party into a post-ideological center: Jonathan Powell, Mr. Blair's chief of staff, watched the 1992 Presidential campaign as an official of the British Embassy in Washington; another aide to Mr. Blair showed up in San Diego last summer to watch the mechanics of a Presidential debate; Stanley Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign pollster, does surveys for Labor.
But aside from their moments on Tuesday in Paris, this was their first meeting since an April 1996 session in the Oval Office. It was also Mr. Clinton's first chance to sample the energy of the Labor Government, which has taken off with a much faster start and sweeter honeymoon than the President in 1993 when he too was being hailed as the emblem of generational change.
When a British reporter reminded Mr. Clinton that he was "rather unpopular" in his first term after a short honeymoon, Mr. Clinton said wrly, "It was a brief honeymoon; it lasted about 35 seconds."
Mr. Blair showed his admiration for the President by shepherding him into a session of the Cabinet, an honor last accorded to President Nixon in 1969. After Mr. Blair professed his admiration for the "courage and strength, the leadership" of Mr. Clinton, his ministers pounded the table, shouting "Hear! Hear!"
Mr. Clinton declined to give the Cabinet any tips, well aware that Labor came into office with a huge mandate, which he never achieved in either of his victories. "I think they're doing very well," he said. "I'd like to have a 179-seat majority, and I'm not going to give any advice. I'm going to sit here and take it as long as they'll let me do it."
To which Mr. Blair, solicitous of Mr. Clinton, replied, "And I would like to make sure that we have a second term in office." Then he shooed journalists from the room.
Later he and Mr. Clinton dismissed their aides so they could meet alone for about an hour before they had a working lunch. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Cherie Blair, both lawyers too, went to see the Globe Theater, a copy of the one from Shakespeare's days. The two couples met again for dinner at one of London's fanciest restaurants, Le Pont de la Tour. The crowds on the street shouted "Tony!" as the foursome passed.
The strange thing about the day was that for once Mr. Clinton, silver haired and subdued in the face of Mr. Blair's triumphant youth, no longer seemed quite so fresh. His cane slowed his pace, and sometimes, as Mr. Blair talked animatedly, the President appeared tired.
He must have known it too, for he made a gentle joke when a reporter asked if he was sick of being compared to the Prime Minister: "Yes, I'm sick of it, because he's seven years younger than I am and has no gray hair."
On the economy, both Mr. Blair and Mr. Clinton contended that their parties must stand on a platform of free markets, economic growth and reins on spending.
"I want us to be in a position, as the progressive party, where we can't launch a big new program unless we raise the money for it or grow the economy to fund it," the President said.
Mr. Blair agreed: "The progressive parties of today are the parties of fiscal responsibility and prudence."
The two men also discussed ways to accelerate reconstruction of Bosnia. Mr. Clinton warned that the efforts to stablize the country were running behind schedule.
"We can't play around with this," he said. "We can't just sort of hang around and then disappear in a year and expect the Dayton process to go forward. We have a lot of work to do in the next year."
But he sidestepped a question on whether American troops stationed in Bosnia would leave a year from now, as he has promised.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference yesterday at No. 10 Downing Street, Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Clinton mirrored one another's political views. Mr. Clinton, as he ruefully noted, is the one with the gray hair. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (93%); TONY BLAIR (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



651 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moves to Prohibit Home-Loan Abuses

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29

 BODY:
In its latest effort to eliminate fraud in Federal housing programs, the Department of Housing and Urban Development proposed a new regulation today to prohibit building contractors from arranging home-improvement loans.
Secretary of Housing, Andrew M. Cuomo, said the department had received hundreds of complaints in recent months from people who had applied for Government-insured homeowner loans through contractors. The homeowners said the contractors steered them to high-interest loans, performed shoddy work, falsified documents and circulated deceptive advertising. 
The Federal Government insures loans under Title I, a 63-year-old program intended to help low-income people who would otherwise have trouble securing a private loan for renovations and repairs.
Mr. Cuomo said that from 1987 through last year, 43 percent of Title I loans had been made through contractors, and the Housing Department paid out $114 million as a result of defaults on those loans. That rate, he said, is almost twice as high as the rate when homeowners borrowed directly from lending institutions.
Over all, the Government insures about 100,000 Title I loans a year for amounts up to $25,000.
Under the proposed regulation, which must be reviewed by Congress, contractors would be barred from playing any role in helping homeowners secure a Title I loan.
"We've reviewed this program and found a high level of fraud and waste," Mr. Cuomo said. "This is a crime waiting to be perpetrated, and we have promulgated regulations that will end the program."
The Title I initiative is the latest in a series of recent efforts by the Housing Department to eliminate the kind of fraud and abuse that has marred the department's reputation and caused some members of Congress to call for its elimination.
Since his confirmation in February, Mr. Cuomo has promised action against landlords of subsidized housing who allow their properties to decay and against marketers who take a percentage of second-mortgage loans that are otherwise available without a middleman.
Mr. Cuomo said department officials had recognized problems with the Title I program for years and had often appealed to Congress to have the regulations changed. But each time, he said, lawmakers said they would rather see the Housing Department make changes than pass any new laws to prevent contractors from helping with loans.
"What we're saying is, enough is enough," Mr. Cuomo said. "Let's end it and stop the hemorrhaging."
In announcing the proposed change, Mr. Cuomo also said that the department was barring four contractors in Texas from conducting business with the Federal Government and barring 10 other contractors in five states from participating in the Title I program for a year. The 10 are also being fined $5,500 each.
Mr. Cuomo said that additional enforcement actions would be taken against other contractors as the department continued its review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CREDIT HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); LOAN DEFAULTS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); SECOND MORTGAGES (71%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ANDREW CUOMO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



652 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Kravis Fund Invests $2 Million With Hospitals

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
A venture capital fund established last year by the financier Henry R. Kravis to encourage job growth and economic development in New York is investing $2 million with two distressed New York City hospitals to help them go head-to-head with giant health maintenance organizations like Oxford and U.S. Healthcare.
Health care experts believe the investment, with Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens and Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center in Brooklyn, represents the first time in the region that private funds are being used to help struggling nonprofit urban hospitals aggressively enter the profit-making market of H.M.O.'s. 
 But the investment, the single largest since the $58 million fund was announced last year, also provides a dramatic illustration of how Mr. Kravis's exercise in capitalist civics -- using the tools of the market to foster economic growth -- is tearing down many of the old walls between private profit and the public good and between the worlds of charity and capital.
The administrators from the two hospitals say, for example, that they would use any profits to improve health care in the poor neighborhoods they serve: Jamaica in Queens, and Bushwick and East New York in Brooklyn.
But the New York City Investment Fund, which Mr. Kravis runs as an affiliate of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, also stands to make a profit if the Brookdale-Jamaica project goes well, as does Mr. Kravis himself. A company Mr. Kravis controls, Merit Behavioral Care Corporation, owns 50 percent of the business that got the loan, Royal Health Care.
The loan will also benefit Royal's sister company, Neighborhood Health Providers, which is wholly owned by the hospitals.
Mr. Kravis said his initial impulse was to reject the loan proposal because of the appearance of a conflict of interest. But he said that fund administrators and investors agreed that Royal was a near-perfect opportunity: it had strong potential growth -- up to 850 new jobs in the next five years, from about 100 now -- and was located in an area of the city where banks and traditional venture capitalists would probably not go.
Some large private health management companies, including Oxford, have also been inching away from the Medicaid market in New York, saying that reimbursement rates set by the state are too low. That is creating an opportunity -- both economically and socially -- fund administrators said, to encourage an expansion by a company that has as its central mission the serving of poorer residents.
Mr. Kravis ultimately recused himself from consideration of the loan, and said that the terms were structured so that any profits would flow up to Merit only after the hospitals' $2 million obligation to the investment fund was repaid.
The fund is charging 11.5 percent on the $2 million loan, payable over four years. It also has an option to acquire a 25 percent stake in Royal Health Care. Neighborhood Health Providers, which is a profit-seeking H.M.O. for Medicaid patients, will remain owned by the hospitals.
The chief executive officer of the fund, Kathryn Wylde, said that the potential conflict of interest -- which was dealt with openly by the fund, and mentioned in the news release announcing the hospital loan -- is positive in that it underlines one of the key premises of the investment fund: that there is private profit to be gained in investing in poorer New York neighborhoods.
"It says that investing in New York City can be good business," she said.
Neighborhood Health Providers now has nearly 11,000 patients in Brooklyn and Queens, but with new rules that require Medicaid recipients to get their health care through an H.M.O., the company faces a potential client base of 200,000 Medicaid patients, company officials said.
Royal Health Care specializes in providing medical management services, aiming particularly at the physician groups that are springing up under managed care. Fund officials said this new and still emerging niche of health care also probably has the greater job-growth potential of the two.
But health care analysts say the new venture faces major obstacles that are purely a result of the marketplace.
Kenneth S. Abramowitz, a health care analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, estimated that only about 1 percent of hospitals in the nation start their own H.M.O.s, and that most fail because the agendas of H.M.O.s and hospitals are simply too different. H.M.O.'s generally measure success, and revenues, by controlling costs, which can mean, for example, shorter hospital stays. And that hurts hospitals.
The president and chief executive officer of the two managed-care companies, Steven Bory, said he was optimistic that a balance could be found. All the participants, he said, have agreed that the central priority is maintaining the health of the two hospitals and continuing their work in New York's poorer neighborhoods.
"When profits are generated, they will flow back to the nonprofit institutions, and then be reinvested back into the community," Mr. Bory said. "It's kind of a Robin Hood thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Rosen, right, who heads Jamaica Hospital, with Steven Bory, who runs Royal Health Care and Neighborhood Health Providers. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MGLN (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622210 PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE HOSPITALS (66%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (66%); SIC8063 PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (66%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: JAMAICA HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER; BROOKDALE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER; ROYAL HEALTH CARE ; NEIGHBORHOOD HEALTH PROVIDERS MAGELLAN HEALTH SERVICES INC (66%); NEW YORK CITY INVESTMENT FUND LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAMAICA HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER; BROOKDALE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER; ROYAL HEALTH CARE ; NEIGHBORHOOD HEALTH PROVIDERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HOSPITALS HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); MEDICAID (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; KRAVIS, HENRY R; ROSEN, DAVID; BORY, STEVEN HENRY KRAVIS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



653 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: NatWest Unit Threatens to Go to Stamford

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
NatWest Markets North America, the investment banking division of NatWest Group, the British financial institution, is threatening to move its headquarters and 500 employees to Stamford unless the city gives it a package of tax breaks and other incentives to move from Wall Street to a luxurious midtown office tower.
NatWest, which sold its building at 175 Water Street in lower Manhattan, has focused on a move to some of the most expensive office space in midtown Manhattan: 300,000 square feet at the top of the former Exxon Building, at 1251 Avenue of the Americas between 49th and 50th Streets, according to real-estate brokers in New York and Connecticut, city officials and executives at NatWest. 
 The investment bank has also explored several sites in Stamford and talked to Connecticut officials about providing an unspecified incentive package if the company relocates.
The Giuliani administration is negotiating with NatWest about providing a multimillion-dollar tax break if the company stays in New York.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, like Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins, has granted hundreds of millions of dollars in tax breaks to retain companies. Some urban planners, good government and conservative antitax groups complain that the deals forgo scarce tax revenues while doing little to change the economic conditions of the region.
Some critics said they were particularly dismayed about a possible deal with NatWest because it would subsidize a move to a thriving midtown market and possibly undermine Mayor Giuliani's policy of using tax incentives and zoning changes to revive lower Manhattan, where more than 18 million square feet of space sit empty.
"Trying to pick winners and losers by doling out taxpayer-funded goodies is not only wasteful, but it's a losing economic strategy," said Brian Backstrom, vice president of Change-NY, a nonprofit antitax group. "In this instance, it's particularly shameful because it flies in the face of a stated economic policy to rejuvenate the downtown area. It stands as a clear example of what is so wrong about the government being in the business of offering corporate welfare."
The city's Economic Development Corporation, which is negotiating with NatWest, declined to comment. Charles A. Gargano, the State Commissioner of Economic Development, said the issue was "jobs," although he could not discuss the specifics of the NatWest deal. "Uptown or downtown, New York City is where NatWest belongs," he said.
Michael Alsop, president of NatWest Markets North America, stressed that "no deal has been done with the city's Economic Development Corporation," although the company had made the decision to leave downtown for either Connecticut or elsewhere in New York.
"Connecticut is an attractive option, especially for investment banks," Mr. Alsop said. "They are offering very attractive incentives. There has to be, in my mind, a very good incentive for our business to stay in New York City."
NatWest Group sold its retail banking unit to Fleet Financial Group for $3.5 billion last year and bought Greenwich Capital Holdings, a bond trading firm in Connecticut.
According to brokers, rents for 300,000 square feet downtown might run $8.7 million a year but would jump to $15 million at 1251 Avenue of the Americas. "It's a trophy property," Michael T. Cohen, president of Williams Real Estate, said. "I'd guess they're not paying a heck of a lot less than $50 a square foot."
Privately, city officials familiar with the NatWest negotiations denied that the incentives were corporate welfare. They say there is a real possibility that NatWest will move to Stamford. The company already has 500 employees in Greenwich, Conn., at Greenwich NatWest.
"This is not about making somebody rich," one person familiar with the negotiations said. "It's about trying to keep somebody."
According to local real-estate brokers and elected officials, NatWest has investigated two different development sites and an existing building in Stamford, but they said they believed NatWest would stay in Manhattan. "We are further along and are having more substantive discussions with other companies," said Dannel P. Malloy, the Mayor of Stamford, who declined to be more specific about NatWest.
It has become customary for companies looking for new space to take advantage of what public officials describe as the "border wars" among Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, as each state dangles tax incentives to retain companies or lure new jobs.
Last month, the Giuliani administration granted the Standard & Poor's Corporation an incentive package totaling $34.5 million to remain in lower Manhattan, after the company rejected what was described as a $50 million offer to move to Jersey City.
"The city is getting a reputation as soft a bargainer with business as it is with municipal labor," said Ray Horton of the Citizens Budget Commission. "The city better figure out what its policy is. They've had a policy of seeking investments in the Wall Street area. Now there's a possible subsidy to get a firm out of Wall Street."
Last year, NatWest sold its building at 175 Water Street to the American International Group, which received a $55.7 million subsidy package from the city.
The current downtown revival remains fragile, with the office vacancy rate hovering above 17 percent and asking rents averaging a modest $25.19 per square foot, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a real-estate company. In contrast, the midtown market is $37 per square foot and the vacancy rate has fallen to less than 10 percent. Moreover, NatWest's potential new home, the former Exxon Building, is in one of the priciest towers because of its prime location.
"They've put the city in a tough position," Mr. Cohen said of NatWest. "On the one hand, there is no need for economic subsidies for companies to move to the Exxon Building. On the other hand, the city is involved in a game of chicken that could cost it a lot of jobs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: NatWest sold its building at 175 Water Street last year. It threatens to move 500 employees to Stamford unless the city helps it go to midtown. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATWEST GROUP NATWEST GROUP MOSCOW (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATWEST GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ZONING (77%); TRENDS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



654 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Texan Faces Big Challenge in Shaping Tax Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29

 BODY:
The White House and Republican leaders in Congress were moving into the final stages of their negotiations to balance the Federal budget late last month, and Representative Bill Archer was out to protect his turf.
Mr. Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, the crucible for all tax legislation, telephoned President Clinton, eventually reaching him in his limousine, and objected to the Administration's effort to include in the budget deal detailed tax provisions that would effectively strip Mr. Archer of his considerable power to shape the tax package. 
 Mr. Archer was also sending the same message to Speaker Newt Gingrich and the rest of the Republican leadership, participants in the budget talks said. He repeatedly warned party leaders not to agree to a deal, as they seemed inclined to do at times, that would tie the committee's hands in writing tax legislation. So insistent was he in a delicate phase in the negotiations that the Speaker icily told Congressional aides that he could replace Mr. Archer as chairman of the tax-writing committee.
Nonetheless, Mr. Archer largely succeeded in his campaign, persuading both sides to give him and his committee considerable freedom in dividing the money that the agreement allocates for tax cuts.
But now he has to face the consequences of that victory, reconciling Republican demands for big tax cuts with a deficit-reduction package that does not provide nearly enough money to meet all promises, and to do so in a package that Mr. Clinton is willing to sign.
"The budget resolution gives the chairman a pair of shoes that's one size too small," said Clint Stretch, who tracks tax legislation for Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm. "He'll get them on, but they're not going to be comfortable."
Much the same challenge faces Mr. Archer's counterpart in the Senate, William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee.
For Mr. Archer, 69, who is in his 14th term representing a district in Houston that is among the nation's wealthiest, the coming months will provide the best opportunity yet to put his stamp on the nation's tax laws. With Mr. Gingrich politically weakened and no longer able to dictate strategy to committee chairmen as he once did, Mr. Archer will have his first real opportunity to act in the tradition of past chairmen of the Ways and Means Committee.
That will involve wheeling and dealing to assemble a coalition for tax changes that affect the economic well-being of the general public and countless special interests.
Although Mr. Archer's desire to cut taxes is deeply held, and his antipathy for the current tax code is considerable -- just after the Republicans won control of the House in 1994 he pledged to kill the income tax system entirely and replace it with a tax on consumption -- he said he was bringing a very pragmatic view to shaping the legislation this year.
"I've always seen myself as a realist," Mr. Archer said. "To make this happen, we have to reconcile the wishes of the majority on the committee with the President's signing off on the bill."
That is a lesson that he said he and the Republican leadership learned the hard way in 1995, when their ideologically driven program ran up against Mr. Clinton's veto power and his success in portraying Republicans as extremists.
Last year Mr. Archer played a role in shepherding through the Ways and Means Committee several major compromise pieces of legislation, including the welfare law, an expansion of health insurance and tax cuts for small businesses.
But there is little spirit of bipartisanship on the committee, whose ranking Democrat, Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, is light-years from Mr. Archer in background, style and politics, and objects to the budget agreement's tax proposals as favoring the wealthy.
Rather than working with the Democrats as a group, an undertaking that he said would be fruitless, Mr. Archer is seeking advice and perspective from each Democrat on the committee individually, clearly trying to fashion a bill that will appeal to enough of them to give the legislation at least the veneer of bipartisan support.
With the tax bill, Mr. Archer will be up against not just the usual political difficulties, but also some unforgiving arithmetic. The budget deal provides for up to $85 billion in net tax cuts over five years, consisting of $135 billion in gross tax cuts offset by up to $50 billion in increased revenue from eliminating tax breaks or extending existing taxes that would otherwise expire.
The Republican wish list -- $500-a-child income tax credits for families, a deep cut in the capital gains tax, expanding Individual Retirement Accounts and slashing estate taxes -- would cost $200 billion over five years in the form that Senate Republicans proposed earlier this year.
The budget deal requires the committee to make an effort to agree on an additional $35 billion in credits and deductions for college tuition that the President supports.
Mr. Archer is making the task more difficult by objecting to most proposals to raise the offsetting $50 billion in new revenue, saying the suggestions are nothing more than tax increases by another name. Although he supports a $32 billion extension of the tax on airline tickets, he said, he may not be able to support much more than an additional $7 billion or so in additional revenue-raising measures.
That means that the total five-year gross tax cut may be limited to $125 billion rather than the $135 billion that the budget deal envisions.
"There's no way all these priorities are going to be fit in at the levels originally proposed," said Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. "It's going to be a real challenge for the committee, and particularly for the Republicans, to prioritize these in a way that doesn't create a lot of hard feelings."
Indeed, each proposed tax cut has a strong constituency. The child tax credit is a favorite of the religious right, which has mustered considerable support for it. Economic conservatives see a deep cut in capital gains taxes as their priority. Small-business owners and farmers, groups with strong support in both parties, are pushing hard for significant cuts in the estate tax, which they say leads to liquidations of family businesses and farms when the owner dies.
"Obviously, I would have preferred a larger number to work with, because I would have hoped to give tax relief to an even bigger group of Americans," Mr. Archer said. "But remember, this is the first time we've had tax reduction as part of deficit reduction in history. Our goal has to be to design a bill that will be accepted as the best we could do, and our best is going to be pretty good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bill Archer of Texas, in a 1996 photograph. (Laura Patterson/Roll Call)
 
Chart: "AT ISSUE: The Elements of a Tax Cut Package"
The budget deal agreed to by Congress and the Clinton Administration allows for tax cuts of no more than $135 billion.
 
MAXIMUM CUTS: $135 billion
TOTAL SENATE REPUBLICAN PROPOSALS: $200 billion
TOTAL CLINTON ADMINSTRATION PROPOSALS: $98 billion
 
Without committing to details, the negotiators' initial positions included some versions of the following:
 
Credit for Families with Children
$105 billion -- Grant a new $500 tax credit for each child under age 18, to be phased out for joint filers with incomes above $110,000.
$46 billion -- Set lower income and age limits for phasing out the credit, and starting the credit at $300 per child, increasing to $500 in 2000..
 
Capital Gains Reduction
$26.4 billion -- Cut the top capital gains rate to 19.8 percent from 28 percent and to no longer factor in inflationary measures when calculating capital gains tax, starting in 1997.
$1.5 billion -- Reduce capital gains tax on the sale of a principal residence only.
 
College Tax Relief
$35 billion -- Grant a $1,500 credit for the first two years of college and allow deductions of up to $10,000 for tuition expenses subject to income limits. The proposals have almost no Republican support.
 
Estate Tax Relief
$18.4 billion -- Increase limit for exempting estates from Federal taxation from the current $600,000 to $1 million and to provide additional exclusions for family-owned businesses and farms.
$0.7 billion -- Reduce estate taxes for small businesses only.
 
Individual Retirement Accounts
$31.2 billion -- Vastly expand the I.R.A. program.
$5.5 billion -- A more limited plan.
 
(Source: Joint Committee on Taxation; Budget of the United States Government, 1998)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME TAX (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; ARCHER, BILL (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



655 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Rise, Aided by a Good Auction

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday, helped by foreign investors' overnight purchases and reinforced by an auction of five-year notes that went better than expected.
European and Japanese investors were active buyers of American Treasuries overnight, as recent events in both regions made the local bond markets less attractive relative to the United States market. 
 In Japan, signs that the economy was not rebounding as quickly as some had thought reduced the chances that interest rates there would be increased anytime soon, keeping the spread wide between Japan's low rates and those in the United States. In Germany, a dispute between the Government and the central bank over the Government's plan to revalue gold reserves to help meet criteria for European monetary union made money managers uneasy. And in France, the possibility of a victory by the left in elections this Sunday raised further concerns about the European currency union.
The 30-year bond rose 20/32 yesterday to a price of 95 21/32 , and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 6.97 percent, from 7.02 percent on Wednesday.
Contributing to the rebound yesterday, which followed several days of weakness, was the auction of $12 billion in five-year notes. There had been worries ahead of the auction about the results because an auction of two-year notes on Wednesday did not go well.
The fears proved unfounded, with the five-year issue awarded at a high yield of 6.616 percent, down from 6.745 percent last month and the lowest since 6.359 percent in February.
Despite the strong demand yesterday, analysts expect the Treasury market to bounce around considerably until next Friday, when the May employment report is issued.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that concerns about interest rates remained, even though the Federal Reserve refrained from raising rates last week at the meeting of its Federal Open Market Committee.
While inflation has remained benign and economic growth has apparently moderated, he said, "an inflation-wary and pre-emptive F.O.M.C. is poised to tighten once again if market conditions become more conducive for a less accommodative policy."
"Indeed," Mr. Fine said, "economic data released thus far this week strongly suggest that while the recently rapid rate of the economic advance is most probably an overstatement of the longer-term trend, a recession or sharp downturn in the pace of business activity is simply not on the radar screen." Reports this week on consumer confidence and durable goods orders have showed strength in the economy, he said, though perhaps not enough to alarm the market.
But a report yesterday that initial claims for unemployment benefits were unchanged in the most recent week showed that the labor market continues to be tight. A number of other economic reports are scheduled for release today, including a revision of gross domestic product for the first quarter and new-home sales for April.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price . . .	99.513	High Yield . . .	6.616%	Low Yield . . .	6.500%	Median Yield . . .	6.600%	Accepted at low price . . .	37%	Total applied for . . .	$33,384,758	Accepted . . .	$12,000,903	Noncompetitive . . .	$738,000	Interest set at . . .	6 1/2%	
 
The five-year notes mature May 31, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, from Feb. to May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES PRICE INCREASES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TRENDS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); DURABLE GOODS (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



656 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Insurer Is Said To Near a Deal For Scudder

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
The Zurich Insurance Group is close to acquiring Scudder, Stevens & Clark, the money management firm, for an estimated $1.5 billion, according to people familiar with the firm's talks with potential buyers.
With the prospective acquisition, the big Swiss insurance company would be trying to achieve two goals: broaden its asset management expertise -- particularly in developing countries and in the American bond markets where Scudder's strengths lie -- and provide a complement to its Zurich Kemper Investments subsidiary that would help bolster that unit's performance, the people with knowledge of the talks said. 
 "There are discussions going on to form a strategic alliance to create a world-class investment organization, which would offer clients Kemper's brokerage capability, Scudder's asset management and Zurich Insurance's global reach," said one person familiar with the matter.
Zurich Insurance completed its acquisition of the Kemper Corporation of Chicago in January 1996 for about $2 billion, but it is still trying to improve the performance of that company. Scudder, which is based in New York, is privately owned by its senior 200 executives. Altogether, it has about 2,500 employees.
A spokesman for Zurich Kemper Investments in Chicago referred questions yesterday about the planned acquisition to Zurich Insurance's head office in Switzerland. That office did not reply to messages left late yesterday. "As a matter of policy, we don't comment on these matters," Eleanor Mascheroni, a spokeswoman for Scudder in New York, said late yesterday.
Scudder, which has about $115 billion in assets under management, about a month ago retained Goldman, Sachs & Company to help it find ways to enhance the value of its business and also, perhaps, to find a buyer. With many big banks, insurers and brokerage firms scrambling to acquire large money management firms such as Scudder, there has been no shortage of suitors. One reason is that investment management helps assure more stable revenues.
Several institutions, including the Union Bank of Switzerland, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, the BankAmerica Corporation and the First Union Corporation have all been mentioned in recent weeks as potential acquirers or merger partners with Scudder.
The prospective sale of Scudder would offer further evidence of the increasing concentration in the asset-management business. A 1995 study of that industry by Goldman, Sachs, which is itself quickly building its own asset-management operation, predicted that there would be only 20 or so companies, each with more than $150 billion of assets, dominating the industry by the end of this century.
In a parallel trend, the asset-management business has become more capital intensive, and Scudder is apparently eager to find a well-capitalized partner with businesses that complement its own. Zurich Insurance fits that need, the people familiar with the takeover talks said, and also offers the Kemper brokerage network as a further potential distribution route for Scudder's mutual funds. Kemper is also stronger than Scudder in American equity markets, where Scudder is eager to expand its asset-management business.
On Wall Street, the largest firms, such as Merrill Lynch & Company, the Morgan Stanley Group and Goldman, Sachs, have all been swiftly building asset-management operations. Merrill, for example, acquired Hotchkis & Wiley for about an estimated $200 million last June, to build up its institutional bond management business.
Morgan Stanley -- which after its merger with Dean Witter, Discover & Company will have $270 billion of assets under management -- acquired Van Kampen/American Capital Inc., which had about $60 billion in assets under management, for more than $1 billion last year. It also bought Miller Anderson & Sherrerd of Philadelphia, which has $33 billion under management, in 1995.
Goldman acquired CIN Management, British Coal's pension fund manager, last July for an undisclosed sum that many analysts estimated at $65 million to $75 million. That transaction added some $23 billion to its assets under management.
Some are trying other routes. Citicorp in recent days said it was hiring Peter Carman from Putnam Investments to head its global asset-management business, and would seek to build its fund management internally.
And mutual fund companies themselves have become more acquisitive as they seek to build greater economies of scale: Franklin Resources Inc., for example, last year bought Heine Securities for an estimated $800 million.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); ZURN (SWX) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); KMPR (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP; SCUDDER, STEVENS & CLARK INC GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); UBS AG (84%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); KEMPER CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP; SCUDDER, STEVENS & CLARK INC

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BONDS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BOND MARKETS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (56%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



657 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Tornado Toll Is Put at 30 as Fears Subside

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: JARRELL, Tex., May 29

 BODY:
The state authorities raised the death toll to 30 today as they concluded searches for the victims of a half-dozen tornadoes that ravaged Central Texas on Tuesday. Twenty-seven of the dead were in homes in a roughly two-mile square patch of land near this unincorporated community 40 miles north of Austin.
But the authorities said earlier fears that the death total would climb sharply had proved unfounded; many people who were counted as missing in the hours after the tornado struck here turned out to be alive and unhurt. Some had simply been out of town at the time, while others managed to escape the twister but were unaccounted for in the confusion after the disaster. 
 Surviving residents of the Double Creek Estates subdivision were allowed back in this afternoon to survey the scene and to look for any scattered belongings, a search that was mostly fruitless. Many who emerged said they were astounded at the completeness of the devastation, and some said they had found nothing but chunks of concrete near the sites of their homes.
This afternoon the National Weather Service officially upgraded the storm to its most severe classification, F-5, and said the tornado had carried winds up to 260 miles an hour as it ripped through a swath about 5 miles long and a half-mile wide.
Only four victims had been officially identified as of this afternoon, said Jimmy Bitz, the local justice of the peace. They were two teen-age brothers, a 5-year-old boy and his 44-year-old grandmother.
But almost everyone here in this small farming community, which also serves as a distant suburb of Austin, had an almost certain notion today of just who had been killed among its 1,000 or so residents on Tuesday afternoon. Nearly half of the victims were children or teen-agers, and at least one entire family was feared dead.
The members of that family -- Larry and Joan Igo, their daughter, Audrey, and twin sons, John and Paul -- apparently headed home, directly into the path of devastation, when they first learned that a tornado was bearing down on Jarrell. Just after a siren sounded here on Tuesday, Mrs. Igo left the Jarrell School, where she was a teacher, while Mr. Igo closed up his antique auto parts store near the center of town.
Mr. Igo drove with his sons and Mrs. Igo with her daughter to their house, about two miles away, said the Rev. Max Johnson, pastor of the First Baptist Church, where all five sang in the choir.
"They actually rushed home into danger," said Mr. Johnson, who said their house was soon leveled down to the concrete foundation.
The Baptist Church continued to function as a center for grief counseling as many people here waited for what seemed the inevitable, official word that a loved one was dead. At Mr. Igo's store, a note posted to the door took on an eerie tone; it came from a friend who pleaded for any member of the family to call him with word that everybody was O.K., and it offered a travel trailer as temporary shelter.
"They would not let me past Trudy's house to help," the note said. "Call me and tell me you made it. I'll bring you a place to stay."
At the same time, tempers were clearly fraying among people because they had been prevented from returning to their property by emergency officials.
"I've had it up to here with all this," said Al Clawson, who owns a recycling and waste-disposal company that was heavily damaged. " I can't get to my property. I can't run my business. The whole thing's a mess and I've had just about all I can take."
In addition to the 27 deaths here in Jarrell, 3 other storm-related deaths occurred closer to Austin, said Mike Cox, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Public Safety. The state continued to work on coming up with an official damage estimate, which it will then use to petition the Federal Government for disaster relief. In addition to the human deaths and the destruction of about 60 homes, the tornado is also believed to have killed 500 head of cattle and 250 sheep and devastated about 1,000 acres of farmland.
State officials said today that there was little that could have been done to head off the deaths and damage.
Gov. George W. Bush said in an interview: "We've had disasters since I've been Governor, obviously. Floods, fire. But you fight fire, and you try to fight flood, but the thing about this tornado, there's nothing you could do about it."
Al Dreumont, a forecaster for the National Weather Service, told the Associated Press, "It was too large to outrun and too strong to have survived unless you got away from the path."
Texas, largely because of its size, has more tornadoes than any other state, but most homes are here are not built with storm cellars or other protective shelters against tornadoes. Such shelters are much more common in parts of Tornado Alley, which includes much of Oklahoma and Kansas and where tornadoes occur more frequently on comparably sized land masses than they do in Texas, said Doug Smith, an assistant professor at the Institute for Disaster Research at Texas Tech University.
"It's not real common in the state of Texas to build" shelters, Professor Smith said. "It's probably a combination of things. There's a tradition not to build. Second is economics. A storm shelter or basement is comparatively more expensive to build. You have to remember the chances of being hit by a tornado is actually fairly small."
Here in Jarrell, disaster-relief officials say that they have been inundated with food and clothes for the victims and that they could now use financial donations instead. As survivors tried to assess the damage and return to some sense of normal, thoughts of the victims seemed to remain uppermost in their minds.
"I will never forget what it felt like that to have that storm pass over me," said Virginia Davidson, whose home was blown apart around her but who miraculously survived by crawling into a bathtub.
Mrs. Davidson added: "I thought for sure I was going to die, so I think I know what it felt like for those who didn't make it. I just hope it happened quickly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Jarrell surveyed the damage yesterday in a neighborhood where a tornado killed 27 people on Tuesday. "The thing about this tornado, there's nothing you could do about it," Gov. George W. Bush said. (Pool Photo by Jerry Hoeffer); Residents of Jarrell, Tex., leaving a restricted area that was devastated by Tuesday's tornado. It coated one side of the truck with grass. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; JARRELL (TEX); UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TORNADOES NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (69%); GRIEF COUNSELING (50%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



658 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
NATO Majority Opposes U.S. on Expanding Alliance
The United States' desire to invite only three countries to join NATO ran into opposition from most of the alliance's other members. At a ministerial meeting in Portugal, only Iceland agreed with the American preference for offering early membership only to Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. Many other NATO members also support Romania and Slovenia. A1
 
Kabila Assumes Presidency
Laurent Kabila had himself sworn in as President of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Wearing a black safari suit, Mr. Kabila gave an inaugural address in Kinshasa's soccer stadium and promised a transition to democracy with elections in April 1999. The day before, he had granted himself the authority to rule by decree without any form of legislature during the transition. A1 

Clinton and Blair Embrace
President Clinton met Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and attended a Cabinet meeting of Britain's "new Labor" Government. The two leaders warmly compared political notes, echoed each other's words and agreed that a new era called for a "new-generation leadership." A3
 
Socialists Ahead in French Polls
France's opposition Socialist leader, Lionel Jospin, campaigned with Communist and environmental candidates. He promised to reverse two years of conservative budget-cutting and tackle unemployment, currently at 12.8 percent. Public opinion polls indicated that Mr. Jospin could become the next Prime Minister after elections Sunday. A4
 
Calm Elections in Indonesia
Voting was mostly peaceful in Indonesia after a campaign in which over 200 people were killed. With 64 percent of the vote counted, the ruling Golkar party of President Suharto was ahead of its own projections, receiving 74.42 percent of the votes. Voters were choosing 425 members to join 75 members of the military in a parliament to be complemented by another 500 Government-appointed delegates. A8
 
Arrests Ordered in Turkey
Three judges in Afyon, Turkey, ordered the arrest of five police officers accused of beating a journalist to death in Istanbul last year. Hundreds of police officers patrolled the closed streets of the provincial town, where the tense hearing was conducted. A11
 
Nigerian Troops in Sierra Leone
Nigerian troops began taking up strategic positions around Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, to back demands that power be restored to President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah. Mr. Kabbah, who was elected in March 1996, took refuge in neighboring Guinea after being ousted by a military coup whose leaders appointed Maj. Johnny Paul Koromah the new head of state. Major Koromah's first official act was to suspend the Constitution and ban political parties. A13
 
NATIONAL A14-26
 
Arguments in Bomb Trial: Terrorist or Wrong Man?
A prosecutor told jurors in his closing argument that Timothy J. McVeigh was "a domestic terrorist" who was "motivated by hatred of the Government." The main defense lawyer noted that no witness had seen Mr. McVeigh build a bomb or drive a Ryder truck. A1
 
Relationship Fells Army General
A one-star Army general was relieved of the command of all Army medical operations in the Southeast for "an improper relationship" with a civilian nurse who was caring for his terminally ill wife, officials said. It was unclear what other steps might be taken against the officer, Brig. Gen. Stephen Xenakis. His case followed that of First Lieut. Kelly Flinn of the Air Force as a test of the Pentagon's policies about sex and relationships. A1
 
Lieutenant Flinn's general discharge went into effect, placing her back in civilian life. Lieutenant Flinn, the first woman to pilot a B-52 bomber, accepted the discharge to avoid being court-martialed on charges stemming from her affair with a married civilian and a brief relationship with a junior airman. (Reuters)
 
Survived by Their Sperm
Doctors are more and more commonly removing and storing the sperm of men who have just died, responding to an increasing number of requests, a study found. Though the procedure is still rare, medical experts are starting to debate when and whether to allow it. A1
 
Stay Out, Starr Urges Justices
The Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, urged the Supreme Court not to disturb an order requiring the White House to turn over notes taken by Government lawyers of conversations they had with Hillary Rodham Clinton about several Whitewater-related matters. He told the Justices that if they review the order, which was issued by a lower court and is being appealed by the Clintons' lawyers, parts of the Whitewater case could be delayed for up to another year. A22
 
Clinton Accuser Gives Demands
The lawyer for Paula Corbin Jones said President Clinton would have to explicitly acknowledge that he remembered meeting her in a Little Rock hotel room in 1991 and pay her to avoid a trial on her sexual harassment charges. The lawyer, Gilbert K. Davis, demanded a similar acknowledgement three years ago; at the time, the President said he did not remember meeting Ms. Jones. Mr. Davis's demand for a cash settlement is new. Mr. Clinton's lawyer said he was eager for a trial. A22
 
All Accounted For in Texas
The Texas authorities raised the death toll to 30 in the tornadoes that ravaged the central part of the state but said the rest of the people unaccounted for after the storm had been found alive. Some of them had been out of town, while others managed to escape the twister but were unaccounted for in the confusion. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Body Is Identified As That of Chinatown Girl
A body found in the East River was that of an 11-year-old Chinatown girl who was reported missing two weeks ago, the authorities said. They said she had been strangled. The police were looking for a man who had been spotted on the subway with a crying Asian girl about an hour after the victim, Wu Quin-Rong, was last seen. B3
 
Battle Over Nureyev's Will
A judge set the stage for a trial over Rudolf Nureyev's will. The ballet star's family is charging that his lawyer took advantage of him to persuade him to give control of his American assets, worth about $7 million, to a foundation that he and his family controls. The lawyer, Barry Weinstein, rejected the charge. B3
 
Bank Machines Require a Coda
Anthony Polistina concludes a 20-year run today as pianist at a Republic National Bank branch in the World Trade Center. The bank is evicting his grand piano to use the space for automatic teller machines. Some customers said they would miss the touch of warmth he added to an often impersonal business. B1
 
SPORTS B6-15
 
Retired at Age 20
Ryan Jaroncyk, the Mets' first-round draft pick in 1995, retired from baseball at age 20. He said he had never liked the sport and had played it only to please his parents. The Mets said they did not plan to ask him to return his $850,000 signing bonus. B7
 
Irabu and Yankees in Deal
Hideki Irabu agreed to a four-year, $12.8 million contract with the Yankees. Irabu had been one of the year's most sought-after players even though he has never thrown a pitch in the major leagues. B7
 
WEEKEND C1-30
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-16
 
Stock Mania in Hong Kong
Shares in one of China's so-called red-chip companies went public in Hong Kong and more than tripled in price. Investors there have been paying staggering prices for Chinese stocks, often with no regard for the companies' actual prospects. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D17
 
John H. Sengstacke
The outspoken longtime proprietor of The Chicago Daily Defender and one of the nation's most prominent black newspaper publishers, he was 84. D17
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Opening up C.I.A. history, now it's the jury's turn, cosmic snowballs, the milk cartel raid.
Columns: Anthony Lewis, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Chronicle D20
 
Crossword C21
 
Weather D16

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ICELAND (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); NIGERIA (92%); POLAND (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (72%); FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (67%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ICELAND (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); NIGERIA (92%); POLAND (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (72%); FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COUPS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); ARREST WARRANTS (67%); JURY TRIALS (66%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (64%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (62%); SOCCER (55%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); TONY BLAIR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



659 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: U.S. NOW AT ODDS WITH NATO ALLIES ON NEW MEMBERS

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: SINTRA, Portugal, May 29

 BODY:
Just two days after NATO sealed a pact with Russia to ease Moscow's concerns about the alliance's expansion, the United States found itself sharply at odds with many of its allies today over how many nations from Central and Eastern Europe should now be invited to join.
Although Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic have long been the leading candidates, a majority of NATO foreign ministers -- 9 of the 16 -- made clear when they met here today that they favored including Romania and Slovenia as well, officials and diplomats said. Those countries were Canada, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Turkey. 
 As the ministers broached the matter directly for the first time over lunch at a golf resort here in the hills west of Lisbon, the United States found itself in the minority in supporting only the three front-runners, the officials and diplomats said.
Iceland was the only country to declare its support today for limiting the first group of new members to three. But the United States, Germany and Britain, while supporting three, left open their options, laying the groundwork for a compromise.
A larger group of potential members might complicate what Administration officials acknowledge could be a tough battle to win Senate approval because the American public seems reluctant to promise to defend many countries in Eastern Europe. It could also raise the costs of expansion, already estimated at $35 billion over the next decade.
The push for the additional members was stronger than expected, and the resulting division means that barely a month before NATO is to invite new members, there is no consensus on what the shape of the alliance should be. The United States led the drive to expand NATO and guided painstaking negotiations to win Russia's acceptance, but now finds itself advocating a slower expansion.
"It would be a mistake to say the consensus is on three," a senior NATO diplomat said. "The majority is in favor of five."
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said the United States had not yet decided how many countries should be invited to join when NATO leaders meet in Madrid in July. But an Administration official said the United States preferred "a smaller group" that had surmounted the "highest hurdles" of political, military and economic change. Slovenia's military is not considered ready, and Romania is considered a fledging democracy.
"You don't want to come all this way and take in countries that are not ready," the official said.
The ministers left it to Secretary General Javier Solana to try to build a consensus, but most officials believe a final decision will come only after Mr. Clinton and other NATO leaders weigh in, perhaps not until the eve of the summit meeting in Madrid, on July 8 and 9.
Russia, which has resisted the expansion from the beginning, has not expressed opposition to any specific number of new members, but has objected strenuously to any consideration of former Soviet republics, particularly the Baltics.
The divisions emerged as the alliance pledged today to strengthen relationships with countries that will not be invited to join, including the former Soviet satellites of the Baltics and Ukraine.
Two days after President Clinton and other NATO leaders joined President Boris N. Yeltsin in Paris to sign a "Founding Act" outlining mutual cooperation and security, NATO reached agreement today on a similar, though less sweeping, pact with Ukraine.
"The charter gives expression to the special importance we attach to Ukraine as a democratic, independent state at the heart of Europe," Mr. Solana said as he initialed the agreement with Ukraine's Foreign Minister, Gennadi I. Udovenko.
In her public remarks, Ms. Albright said any expansion needed to make the alliance "stronger and more cohesive" but also make it clear to those passed over now that future expansion remains a goal, as a way to encourage the nations of Central and Eastern Europe to continue to take steps toward democracy and market economies.
"We must have high standards for new members today," she said, "but we must also have a process that encourages other nations to meet those standards tomorrow."
Ms. Albright and others left open the possibility that the United States could support more than three members. "There has been no final decision either by the United States or the NATO alliance," she said in a news conference this evening.
The inclusion of Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic has never really been in doubt; since the end of the cold war, each has nurtured a thriving democracy.
Romania and Slovenia have been considered long shots for membership, but they have made significant strides toward democratic changes in recent years and have strong advocates making their case at NATO -- with France leading the way for Romania and Italy for Slovenia.
Each has mounted an intense lobbying campaign, winning support not only in Europe but also in Washington. This month, Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate's Committee on Foreign Relations, declared that the United States should support four new members, including Slovenia.
NATO members from southern Europe have said they believe including Romania and Slovenia would strengthen the alliance along the Mediterranean.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (93%); ROMANIA (93%); SPAIN (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); ICELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; HUNGARY; POLAND; CZECH REPUBLIC; ROMANIA; SLOVENIA; ICELAND; ; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (93%); ROMANIA (93%); SPAIN (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); ICELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE JAVIER SOLANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



660 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Whets Chinese Taste for Freedom

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 29

 BODY:
Just around the corner from where Democracy Wall was torn down more than a decade ago, a 40-year-old clothing merchant named Zhang perched himself on the stoop of his storefront and surveyed the explosion of commerce that has changed the face of China.
Twenty years ago, when Mao had the whole country roiling with politics, there was nothing here in the Xidan district but a pitiful stretch of markets; now the street is a canyon of department stores overrun with strolling couples as colorful as the previous generation that shopped here was drab. 
 "We don't talk about politics anymore," Mr. Zhang said. "Why should we? Who is our leader now? Money is our leader."
Asked directly about politics, the voluble Mr. Zhang turned cautious, refusing even to reveal his full name to a foreign reporter.
"You see those two policemen over there?" he asked, as he pointed to two patrolmen. "They could throw my behind in jail or kill me," he said, echoing the widely held fear in China of arbitrary police power.
"We don't have any freedom. We can earn money, but -- are you kidding, what freedom?"
The state of freedom in China today has become an important question in American politics, as President Clinton and Congress clash over whether to extend China's "most favored nation" trading privileges. By "engaging" China, Mr. Clinton believes he will encourage a long-term trend toward democracy and the rule of law, but his critics assert that a course of greater pressure, even confrontation, is necessary until China ends repression and undertakes genuine political reform.
Never in their history have the Chinese been as free to flourish, to earn, to invest and to move about their country building networks of commerce and opening markets at home and abroad.
Chinese officials, eager to end the long political isolation that followed the Tiananmen massacre of 1989, argue that the Chinese are running their own affairs as never before; peasants are taking part in village elections and China's rubber-stamp Parliament is beginning to assert itself.
Yet part of the great complexity of China today is that even as the Chinese are more and more unleashed, they are far from free and far from satisfied about the state of their liberties.
Across the country, many Chinese say in interviews that above all things they treasure stability so they can prosper, but they also seethe over the corruption and inequities that flourish today. They yearn for a system in which their voices could be heard, their grievances addressed, but often they do not know what such a system of government would be called, and many dare not say.
The death of Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, in February has done nothing to clarify the prospect for political reform. Thousands of political offenders still languish in prisons and labor camps for challenging the corrupt or arbitrary acts of countless local Communist Party chieftains. But some experts believe that strong social pressures for change are building.
To fend off these pressures, Communist Party leaders are seeking to discredit democracy by equating it with chaos. But even as they do, the return of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty on July 1 will bring into sharp focus the different states of liberty in China.
Many mainland Chinese are already asking, if freedom is good enough for Hong Kong, then why not for us?
 
Liberty Divided
Freedom to Prosper But Not to Publish
For most Chinese, the state of their personal freedom must be measured against the dark years of the 1950's and 1960's, when hundreds of millions lived on the edge of starvation. Those were years of tempestuous political campaigns, the names of which howl through history with the voices of lives destroyed.
The "masses" were smothered by intrusions: Housing was assigned and essential coupons for food and clothing shackled every Chinese to state dormitories, communes or cramped factory quarters. Party committees controlled who could marry, who could bear a child or get an apartment.
Now millions of Chinese are on the move, more and more free to live and work near opportunity. The tyranny of the coupon system and neighborhood committees has collapsed or been replaced by free-wheeling private markets.
The work unit, the system that assigned every Chinese to a factory or government organization where his life was closely supervised and his file maintained, still dominates state industries and enforces state policies for hundreds of millions.
But in many families, one member stays anchored to a state job to retain cheap housing and other benefits, while others dive into the sea of private enterprise, driving cabs, running curbside eateries, beauty parlors and clothing stores in hopes of getting rich. And many are.
"It is true that many Chinese feel more free than ever before," said Wang Ruoshui, a former vice chief editor of The People's Daily and a leading advocate for democracy in the 1980's. "Today, if you want, you can dress like a pirate on the street and you can say anything you like; you can attack Jiang Zemin or Li Peng or the Communist Party as long as you don't publish your views," he added, referring to the President and Prime Minister.
"People have the freedom to earn money, and this is very important," Mr. Wang said, "but this is very complicated. The people have no opportunity to get news or to choose their leaders."
Sun Changjiang, a political reformer under the late Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang, offered a bleak estimate of Chinese aspirations for democracy. "The common people don't know what democracy is because their education level is so low," he said. "Even college students don't care about democracy now."
Yet many Chinese, especially party members and Government officials, have been indoctrinated to distrust democracy. Over lunch recently, a senior Government official, fresh from a mid-career course at the Central Party School, said what many top officials think: "Democracy is a luxury that China cannot afford."
"If we let the people loose, or start a general debate on what form of government we should have," he said, "it would be chaos, just like the Cultural Revolution."
About 30 miles south of Beijing, Huo Baoxian is the local Communist Party chief in Heixifa village, where local elections have been held three times in the last decade.
Heixifa displays the economic achievements of the Chinese peasantry. Along the dusty lanes, many new brick homes stand where mud-walled huts used to be and the bounty of the fall harvest bulges in each household storeroom. The peasants enjoy better nutrition and health care, and jobs have opened in township enterprises or on fish farms.
There is no democracy here, though there are democratic instincts even as the Communist Party's dominance in local affairs grows.
"In the countryside today, the party secretary is in charge of everything," said Mr. Huo, a bespectacled man in his early 40's who is a rather popular figure in the village of 260 households. "All the political moves are decided by the party before they can be implemented."
In his village, he added, the village committee members and the village chief are elected, but they must be nominated by the party.
 
Liberty Disguised
The Power to Vote But Not to Decide
In a country where all policy is made at the top by the Politburo and the Communist Party Central Committee, the significance of village elections at the bottom of the system is not that they are liberating the peasantry, but that they provide for improved local leadership and a measure of participation.
Village elections in China have done little to relieve the average peasant's burdens or eliminate arbitrary government intrusions. County governments levy taxes and fees and county family planning officers relentlessly enforce the one-child policy, while township and county police officials crack down on religious practice and unsanctioned political activity.
Yet in Heixifa, even the party secretary, Mr. Huo, displays a democratic instinct at times. "In my village," he said, "all major decisions have to get the approval from the people in the village. For example, when it comes to buying farm equipment, the villagers have to vote on it."
And when the village receives an order from above, the villagers do not always obey. "Sometimes, when we don't like a decision," Mr. Huo said, "we procrastinate on purpose and won't execute it. For example, the county pushed hard to build a fertilizer factory and asked our village to raise 100,000 yuan [$12,000]. We didn't like it, and finally our procrastination trashed the deal."
But these rights are not enshrined in any law. The farmers are more concerned about their land, their grain production and their taxes and fees. Ignorance is the greatest limitation on political development; even Mr. Huo recognized that and has started reading groups to raise the literacy level.
"I don't think the majority of voters realize that they are engaging in democratic elections," he said. "But despite the fact that the village election is only a form or procedure, we take it seriously."
So do many of China's intellectuals. But for now, there is no groundswell to take more than the incremental steps China is taking in the countryside, and in legislation that is creating the foundation for a rule of law that does not yet exist.
Many Chinese believe that it would take a reversal of China's economic fortunes, a sudden downturn in growth or a return of high inflation, to rekindle Chinese interest in democracy and political reform.
"An entrepreneur said to me once, 'As long as I am making money, what do I care about who is the prime minister?' " said Mr. Wang. "I am not optimistic about the future. Perhaps they will have more freedom, but not more democracy."
 
Liberty Discredited
Democracy Called A Road to Chaos
To Westerners, China from a distance often seems a bleak landscape of repression and human rights abuse, but at closer range, the vastness of opportunity incites an overwhelmingly different impression. Confronted with forests of building cranes and spanking new factories many visitors say the China they encounter does not resemble the image of China shaped in the West.
But political repression is always less visible than commerce.
The economic freedoms so visible today in major cities and along China's bustling coastline mean little to hundreds of millions of other Chinese, living in inland provinces where hunger and scarcity reign, or in old industrial cities where millions of unemployed workers and pensioners are shackled by subsistence.
Despite reforms in criminal procedures this year, there are few if any basic protections against arbitrary arrest and imprisonment. There is no freedom of the press nor any prospect for freedom of expression in the arts, film or news media.
The Ministry of Justice admits to holding more than 2,000 "counter-revolutionary" political prisoners, a number that has declined in recent years. But countless thousands of other political and religious prisoners of conscience are in labor camps and mental institutions.
In a heavily policed society, little has changed since 1979, when young intellectuals like Wei Jingsheng and Xu Wenli pasted up on Democracy Wall their calls for reform. That stretch of masonry was dismantled in 1980, and in 1982 big character posters were outlawed. Mr. Wei went to prison, where he remains today, and Mr. Xu is a political hermit.
In 1986 and again in 1989, pro-democracy movements erupted on the streets of Beijing, and each time the Government cracked down, most brutally on June 4, 1989.
Mr. Wang and other intellectuals who participated in the robust democracy debates of the 1980's have watched since 1989, as the Communist Party has sought to tar the concept of democracy as a viable system for China.
"The propaganda organs show fighting in the Taiwan parliament or they show poor Russian farmers and they tell the people: this is democracy," he said.
The people, he added, "have been misled to believe that democracy equals chaos in the streets so they don't think of June 4th as an example of students making a demand for democracy. They think of it as an expression of democracy" -- more chaos and riot.
In the early 1980's, when Mr. Wang served on a high-level party commission with Li Ruihuan, now a member of the ruling Politburo, Mr. Li interrupted a discussion on the merits of democracy by asking, "Do we still want more democracy? Didn't we get enough of that in the Cultural Revolution?"
These deeply ingrained attitudes, Mr. Wang says, prove that many Chinese have taken a negative lesson about democracy. "And they think it is useless to oppose the Government because you cannot change it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In downtown Beijing, the mere sight of a patrolman can set off fears of arbitrary police power. (Mark Leong for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Freedom, at least to trade, is all around in Beijing's Xidan district, now lined with department stores. "Money is our leader," one merchant said. (Mark Leong for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



661 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Mutual Fund Inflows Rise; Dow Average Loses 27.05
With investors bullish, cash flows to mutual funds have gained strength in the last two months -- with inflows to stock funds reported at $15.7 billion in April and estimated at $19 billion in May. But fund managers have been cautious, leaving two-thirds of April's new stock money in cash. 
 Stocks fell yesterday, weakened by slack demand for technology issues and a disappointing earnings forecast by Nike. The Dow industrials lost 27.05 points, closing at 7,330.18. [Page D4.]
 
Nike shares fell 13 percent after the company said that its quarterly earnings would be below expectations because of disappointing sales and the shutdown of a factory in Canada that makes skates. [D3.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities rose, helped by foreign purchases and reinforced by a better-than-expected auction of five-year notes. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 6.97 percent, from 7.02 percent on Wednesday. [D14.]
 
Former Nomura President Arrested Nomura Securities' former president, Hideo Sakamaki, has been arrested in connection with a widening scandal involving suspected illegal payoffs to a racketeer. [D14.]

Scholastic Cutbacks Bolster Shares
Scholastic announced cost cuts that include the elimination of 400 jobs, intended to save at least $25 million annually. The company's battered stock rose by 11.4 percent. [D2.]
 
2 Suitors Pursue Bozell
A sale of Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt, the world's 14th-largest advertising agency company, may be near as two bigger competitors, Omnicom and True North Communications, pursue acquisition bids. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D2.]

Another Shift in Marvel Fight
Toy Biz, a company at the heart of the battle for control of Marvel Entertainment, has changed sides again, backing away from an agreement with Marvel bondholders. [D4.]

20 State Securities Regulators Act
Securities regulators from 20 states, led by Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco of New York, filed lawsuits and took other actions against stockbrokers pushing penny stocks by phone. They acted just as Congress, responding to securities industry pressure, is attacking state enforcement efforts. [D2.]
 
Trouble at Boston Chicken Unit
Boston Chicken said that it was unhappy with results in its restaurant division and that the president of the unit, Laurence M. Zwain, had resigned. The announcement sent the company's shares down sharply. [D4.]
 
American Airlines Seeks Shuttle
American Airlines moved to buy the U S Airways Shuttle, but its bid is expected to encounter heavy resistance. [D2.]

Sybase Executive Leaves
The turnaround of Sybase, a maker of data base software that has been struggling to regain its former luster, ran into another hurdle when a key executive left. [D14.]

Kravis Fund Invests in Hospitals
A venture capital fund established last year by the financier Henry R. Kravis to encourage economic development in New York City is investing $2 million with two troubled hospitals to help them expand a company that will go head-to-head with giant health maintenance organizations. [B5.]

Suit Over Secondhand Smoke
A lawsuit brought by an American Airlines flight attendant and nonsmoker who has lung cancer could present another front -- the health consequences of secondhand smoke -- in the broadening legal assault on cigarette companies. [A14.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,330.18 down 27.05
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.97% down 0.05
The Dollar -- 116.28 yen up 0.47
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows percent change in new-home sales from Oct. 1996 to March 1997. Expected change for April: -1.7%; "Boston Chicken" shows share price for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (62%); OMC (NYSE) (54%); IPG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (84%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (84%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (84%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (62%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (84%); BOZELL INC (82%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (62%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (54%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US STATE SECURITIES REGULATION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); CLOSINGS (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SCANDALS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); AIRLINES (63%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); 

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



662 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2222 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Closing Arguments in the Oklahoma City Bombing Case

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: DENVER, May 29

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the closing arguments today in the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh on charges from the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, as prepared by the official court reporter and distributed by Pubnetics Inc. of Denver:
 
THE PROSECUTION
Larry Mackey 
 The events that were set in motion two years ago are drawing to a close. On April 19, 1995, a crime of ghastly proportions was committed. On that day a truck packed with explosives parked in downtown Oklahoma City filled with explosives. Only a wall of windows separated the unsuspecting children and women and men inside that building from the truck and the explosives that sat outside. The truck bomb exploded, the building gave way, and suddenly many lives were ended, and many, many more were changed forever.
America stood in shock. Who could do such a thing? Who could do such a thing? It's a question that began to ripple across this country coast to coast. And finally it's come to rest right here in this courtroom.
It's fallen to you as members of this jury to answer that question. Based on the evidence, based on what you've heard, the answer is clear. Tim McVeigh did it. Tim McVeigh and Terry Nichols in concert with each other planned and executed the violent attack on the Murrah Building and are responsible for the murders of those persons who died. . . .
We promised and we've proven, in more ways than one, a number of important factual propositions. No. 1, Timothy McVeigh, motivated by hatred of the Government, in a rage over the events at Waco, deliberately and with premeditation planned the bombing of the Murrah Building; No. 2, that he educated himself on how to build bombs; No. 3, that he enlisted at least one co-conspirator and attempted to recruit yet another, Michael Fortier, to help him in that criminal act and that he and Terry Nichols acquired and attempted to acquire all of the necessary components to build a massive bomb; that Timothy McVeigh carefully, very deliberately selected his target, the Murrah Building, he surveyed it, and that in April of 1995, he rented the truck, built the bomb and detonated it against the Murrah Building.
That's the Government's case. Promises made, promises kept. . . .
From all of that evidence, what is clear is that Easter Sunday, Tim McVeigh had staged his getaway, the Mercury, in downtown Oklahoma City; and most likely, most likely, given all the other evidence, in the direction of the Y.M.C.A. building.
So by Easter Sunday, the getaway car was in place. All the ingredients had been purchased. And the next day on Monday, the Ryder truck was picked up. And the next day on Tuesday, Tim McVeigh left the Dreamland.
In that time, between the time he leave the Dreamland on Tuesday, the 18th, and the time the bomb went off on April 19 in downtown Oklahoma City, he had time, plenty of time, to get those ingredients and to build the bomb with the help of Terry Nichols and to drive to Oklahoma City. He also had time to wash up and change his clothes, if he was so inclined.
The next day was April 19. It was the anniversary of Waco. It was Liberty Day, as Tim McVeigh would describe it, a day that Tim McVeigh had long been waiting for. It takes about five hours to drive from Junction City and that area down to downtown Oklahoma City, maybe longer if you're transporting something as sensitive as was in the back of this particular Ryder.
Minutes before 9:00 -- and you saw in this case the ghostly image of a Ryder truck appears just outside the Regency Towers captured by the video camera. It pauses by the curbside. We may never know why it pulled over. We may never know that. But we know that it vanished and left the scene.
McVeigh was driving that truck, just like Michael Fortier told you was his intent. You can't see it from the video, but you can see it from all of the other evidence in this case.
McVeigh lit the fuse and left the truck, left the truck separating only by a wall of glass that truck and the people inside.
At that point in time, nothing is going to stop this bomb. You cannot turn the hands of time back; and in fact, the hands of time fell to rest that morning at 9:02 A.M.
Over the four short years between that event and prior to that, Tim McVeigh had been at the helm of two weapons of mass destruction. In the Gulf War, he was a good soldier. He was a soldier who manned a Bradley tank, a vehicle -- a vehicle of mass destruction that's built for that reason. It's built to kill other people.
And on the side of that tank are the words, "U.S. Army" and an American flag. Those are words and symbols meant to declare its purpose, its killing power. That was one weapon of mass destruction that Tim McVeigh manned.
The second one was a Ryder truck, a Ryder truck that he delivered to the door of the Murrah Building on April 19, 1995. On the side of that truck was the name "Ryder," were the words "18,000 pounds" for its capacity and a 1-800 number. These are words meant to disguise the purpose that was packed in the back of that truck by Tim McVeigh.
That truck crawled to a stop in front of the Murrah Building on that morning, right in front of children and women and men; and then Tim McVeigh ran away.
The law enforcement officers that died that morning were not "treasonous" officials, as Tim McVeigh had declared. . . .
The credit union employees that disappeared that morning were not tyrants whose blood had to be spilled in order to preserve liberty. And certainly the 19 children that died that morning were not storm troopers that Tim McVeigh had said must die, innocent storm troopers who must die because of their association with an evil empire. . . .

THE DEFENSE
Stephen Jones
Now, the Government's position is that much of what Michael and Lori Fortier says is corroborated. Well, I suppose in a kind of a backhanded sense, that's true. But let's examine carefully here the story that they first told and then why they changed and then the story that they later told. . . .
In their community and with the beliefs that they had, Tim McVeigh was being persecuted by the F.B.I. just like they were being persecuted. His life was being disrupted and so was Terry's and so was theirs. And so they went out and did what they had done before: They defended themselves, and that's what they were doing. . . .
And then something happened. Now, what happened was Terry Nichols was arrested on May the 10th. But in the meantime, something else had happened. Mrs. Fortier, despite the fact they're writing press releases and rewriting them and holding press conference, she just wasn't interested in what appeared in the press, just totally oblivious to it except in one or two instances.
The reason that Mrs. Fortier had to say, No, I didn't really read them that much, and finally Mr. Fortier came around and said, particularly when it's on the tapes, that he knows about Time magazine, knows about The Arizona Republic, he knows about CNN and he's got his friends, Lonnie and Glenn and his brother John calling him and telling him that they've seen him. And you can hear the excitement in their voice. They know a celebrity.
But the reason they didn't want to admit reading it is because then, if I said, Well, did you read the story about how the F.B.I. thought it was carried in a Ryder truck; and then, Well, did you read the story the next day about they thought this Ryder truck was rented in Michigan; and then, Did you read the story that there was a false driver's license that might have been used; and then, Did you read the story there was ammonium nitrate, they could say, no, I didn't read it. Of course they read it.
And when it dawned on them like the great French play, "No Exit," that there was no exit for them, they had to come up with a plan. . . .
Everything about Terry Nichols applies at least to Michael if not Lori. Both of them knew Tim McVeigh, both of them served in the military with him at the same time, both of them shared the same political beliefs, both of them had similar type devices and stuff in their house, both of them had the same kind of books, and they were all linked together with Tim McVeigh. So first Terry Nichols is held as a material witness, and then on May the 10th, he's arrested and charged as an aider and abettor in the case.
Now, they knew by then, because they told you, they had seen the Attorney General and the President of the United States, and they knew that a death penalty was going to be sought in this case. So here they are, broke, unemployed, no money in the bank, no prospects, not even the money to hire a lawyer; and they know that the vise is closing in on them. . . .
So he leaves a message with the F.B.I. one early morning that he's interested in talking to them about a proffer. Now, he hasn't said anything that implicates himself or Tim McVeigh, he's just kind of out scouting as to what he can do. This is a man that still thinks he can have it his way. So they get subpoenaed to come to Oklahoma City, and they meet in a motel and they call some F.B.I. agents. . . .
And Mr. Fortier excuses himself from Mrs. Fortier. Now, that's kind of an interesting development, isn't it, because remember, I trust Lori, I tell Lori everything. Tim McVeigh wrote me, according Mr. Fortier, and said, Don't tell your wife; but I tell my wife everything. But, boy, the door closes behind him on this one. And Lori stays in the hotel room while Michael goes out, and what does he say? He doesn't say, We can give you Tim McVeigh; he says, I can give you Tim McVeigh. But I want immunity from prosecution. Now, even if he intended it to apply to both of them, what he wanted was I'll give you Tim McVeigh, but I don't want to be prosecuted. For nothing. Period. Nothing.
Well, the agents told him, Well, we don't have any authority to make that kind of promise or commitment. Would you like to correct your statements? I mean after all, that's why you called us out here, Michael. Would you like to correct your statements?
And then -- now they're back inside -- Mr. Fortier turns to Mrs. Fortier and says: You correct yours first. Greater love hath no man than he lay down his wife for his life. That is precisely what he was willing to do. But Lori -- remember, these are not stupid people -- says, no, you correct yours first.
And so he begins, quote, to correct his. But according to him, he is still lying. So he feels his way as he is engaged in this maneuver, and his wife has the good sense to keep her mouth shut. Chivalry died that afternoon in the Fortier home. That's for sure. Their lawyer, or at least her lawyer, shows up and tells her not to talk anymore, which is certainly appropriate advice in the circumstances; but she already knew that. And then supposedly because he has this great feeling for the people of Oklahoma, he starts cooperating.
Well, if you take all of these things that he said, 99 percent of them were already known to the F.B.I.; or if they weren't known to the FBI, they were certainly known to the press, because they were in the public domain. But nevertheless, he did serve a function of tying them up. . . . But those things that he says that aren't in the public press, such as, Well, now, you know Tim McVeigh wrote me a letter, said he wanted to take direct action. Well, do you have the letter? Well, no, I don't have the letter. And I wrote him back. Well, did you make a copy of that? And I agree it's not likely somebody would make a copy of a letter, but some people do. No, I don't have that. . . .
But my point is simply this: If you say that George Washington sat in that chair and there's the chair, it doesn't prove that George Washington sat in it at all. For any of this to have any believability, you have to first believe Michael and Lori Fortier.
Now, according to them, their parents believed them, their friends believed them; didn't have any trouble lying to them. Or were they telling the truth now [sic] and lying now? . . .
Now, when you add up all of Michael Fortier and Lori Fortier -- not small number, but principally Michael's criminal offenses, to plead guilty to no more than 23 years was Christmas in August. But he's not even facing the 23 years, because under the terms of his agreement, it can be reduced, or at least the Government can move for a reduction. . . .
Well, Mr. Fortier understands that he could be sentenced to a total of 23 years in prison. Well, if I were facing all the offenses that he was facing, I would think that was a pretty good deal.
The parties agree to seek a continuance of Mr. Fortier's sentencing until he has completed his cooperation and rendered his testimony. What that simply means is we got him. He has to deliver for us before we deliver for him.
Wouldn't it have been better if he had already been sentenced? Then you would have a position to know that he had no motive to lie; he had already been sentenced, so what he said wouldn't affect his sentence. But it's just the opposite.
The Government in this remarkable candor clearly says, We're not going to deliver till you deliver. So why are they still holding the Sword of Damocles over his head? Maybe because they don't trust him; and maybe you shouldn't trust him, either. Because they want to be sure he delivers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (69%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (69%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (69%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (69%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA); UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORISM (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); EASTER SEASON (76%); 

PERSON: MACKEY, LARRY; JONES, STEPHEN; MCVEIGH, TIMOTHY JAMES

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



663 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 30, 1997,

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Africa Isn't Free to Develop Thriving Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Contrary to "Tiger Tales: Why Africa Can Thrive Like Asia" (Week in Review, May 25), the Asian "tigers" (Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea) did not develop by following free-market prescriptions, as you imply. They were able to take the fiscal steps you correctly praise -- control inflation, undervalue currencies, enforce savings and invest in education and infrastructure -- because their governments carefully regulated the economy, subsidizing fledgling local industries, controlling wages and movement from farms to factories, and stimulating agricultural and industrial exports.
In contrast, since the mid-1980's, most African countries have been subjected to development strategies imposed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund that dictate that these countries lower trade and tariff barriers, cut government spending, remove subsidies and concentrate on stimulating agricultural, rather than industrial, exports. 
 As a result, local industries, unable to compete with foreign goods or investments, have closed; spending on education and health care has plummeted, and commodity prices have fallen even as exports have increased because many countries now export the same handful of crops.
Africans will not "thrive" -- and may not survive -- until the international financial institutions agree to substantial debt relief and stop imposing their structural adjustment programs.
 
MARTHA HONEY
Silver Spring, Md., May 26, 1997
 
The writer teaches a graduate course in African trade and investment at George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; AFRICA (95%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INFLATION (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: HONEY, MARTHA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997



664 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Rift in Germany Helps Dollar Close Week Higher vs. Mark

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar closed a volatile week higher against the German mark yesterday, bolstered by concern about plans for a single European currency and comments from a Federal Reserve official.
The dollar has gained this week on a dispute between the German Government and the central bank, the Bundesbank, over a Government plan to revalue the Bundesbank's gold reserves. The move would allow the Government to book a quick profit and thus sharply cut a budget deficit, putting the country closer to qualifying for the single European currency, the euro. 
 Yesterday, a Bundesbank council member, Reimut Jochimsen, said the Government's plan marked a "dramatic conflict" with the central bank.
"The market recognizes that the Bundesbank isn't going to take this gold revaluation plan lightly," said Brian McCarthy, a market analyst at Ruesch International. "So, whenever the value of the euro comes under doubt, of course, they sell marks for dollars and sterling."
In trading in New York late yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.7063 marks, up from 1.6966 on Thursday. The dollar slipped to 116.22 yen, from 116.28 on Thursday. The pound rose to $1.6410 from $1.6404.
Further support for the dollar emerged in comments by William McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who said a strong dollar was in the interest of the United States.
The dollar also continued to gain over political uncertainties in France. The Socialist Party and its leftist allies go into a runoff this weekend after having scored an impressive showing in the first round of elections May 25. The Socialists favor a less stringent interpretation of the standards that must be met in order to qualify for monetary union.
"If the Socialists do get in, that could certainly have implications for French monetary policy," said Frank Pusateri, vice president of corporate foreign exchange at the Mellon Bank. "It could throw the whole European thing off track, presumably."
The dollar was also helped by a rebound in the United States stock market. Stocks tumbled on a plunge in Intel and other technology issues, but recovered to end little changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (73%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (73%); INTEL CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM J MCDONOUGH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



665 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Some Artistic Neighbors Try to Lower Their Fence

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW

DATELINE: HARRIMAN, N.Y., May 29

 BODY:
The future relationship of the arts and the world of commerce in the United States is under intense scrutiny this weekend by leaders of foundations and corporations, academics and others gathered here at a conference called "The Arts and the Public Purpose."
Among the diverse participants in the conference, sponsored by the American Assembly, are an expert in intellectual property law, an executive with the Nissan Motor Corporation, a California muralist, the poet laureate Robert Pinsky, James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander, chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. The core of the meeting, which began on Thursday, is the still-tenuous alliance between for-profit and nonprofit organizations. 
 Alberta Arthurs, the co-chairman of the conference and the director of the program on culture and development at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that panelists were searching for "the appropriate agenda for the arts in the American experience in the first 20 or 25 years of the next century." Because of changes in the arts and in their financing, including cuts in support from the Federal arts endowment, she asked if it was necessary "to find new partnerships, new allies, new ways of working," and if so, where.
In recent years, the arts have proliferated throughout the United States on an amateur as well as a professional level. The conference's discussions are broad, addressing the needs of innovative artists who have come under attack from members of Congress and special interest groups. Addressing possible ways to improve conditions for arts that are now threatened, Ms. Arthurs said: "There's an enormous amount of things going on at the local level: new ideas about taxation and levies, about mobilizing people to work together within communities. I think there's a much more popular agenda for the arts than we're aware of."
At times discussions were heated, and there was also a fair amount of woolgathering as panelists dutifully tried to define "the arts" and "the public purpose." But generally there was a feeling that something had to be accomplished. At the end of the conference on Sunday, the chairmen will summarize the various points of view. Then books will be published and perhaps other meetings will be held.
The goal of the conference is to wrestle with problems that affect people on both sides of the fence, or rather, to remove the fence. "This Gaza Strip thinking is not in accord with reality," one participant commented. The reality, many suggested, is that the lines have blurred. It was suggested that audiences did not know or care if a play or opera was financed by nonprofit or commercial sources, although that distinction remains important to artists.
In the arts, "the nonprofit sector 'supports' the profit sector," in the view of Steven D. Lavine, president of the California Institute of the Arts in Valencia, Calif. His position seems to contradict the commonly held belief that nonprofit institutions and artists are supported by corporations and foundations. That financial support exists, but Mr. Lavine views it as a two-way street, with the artists supplying the creativity. His institute is partly financed by the Walt Disney Company, and he says "there is a tremendous hunger in technologically driven industries" to hire his graduates. Many of them go to work for Disney. Having said that, Mr. Lavine put a question on the conference table: how to insure the health of "that part of the arts that is socially and intellectually disruptive."
Ms. Alexander emphasized the role of artists as the research and development arm of popular culture. Frank Hodsoll, a former head of the arts endowment and co-chairman of the conference, was one of several people who expressed a belief in the "farm team" principle, suggesting that smaller institutions can feed the larger organizations, like the Metropolitan Opera.
The playwright David Henry Hwang spoke about the number of plays that began Off Broadway and in regional theater before moving to Broadway.
He predicted that there might eventually be a nonprofit touring circuit paralleling the one that existed for so many years in the commercial theater, and envisioned the rise of a nonprofit impresario who would book such tours.
Some of the panelists insisted that art itself is the end goal. David Mendoza, executive director of the National Campaign for Freedom of Expression in Seattle, said he was concerned about the demonization of the artist.
He defended Andres Serrano and Karen Finley, suggesting that those who have criticized their work have in many cases not seen it, and that in effect experimental artists are being censored by sound bite. He and others indicated that the public needed to be educated to increase its receptivity to challenging forms.
Although both conservatives and liberals attended, the arguments were less political than cultural and economic in the opening sessions. As Daniel F. Ritter, the director of the conference, said, the question was "not what this country can do for the arts but what the arts can do for this country."
State Senator Roy M. Goodman of New York said he was extremely concerned about "the appropriations of the N.E.A. being gutted" and urged that "know-nothing voices needed to be suppressed." Though there were those who argued that the endowment budget should be increased, the consensus seemed to be that it is time to look for new financing methods.
The American Assembly, founded in 1950 by Dwight D. Eisenhower at Columbia University, holds conferences on many subjects, often on foreign policy and domestic political and economic issues. Occasionally the group has focused on the arts. In 1990, the issue was biculturalism. This year, it was felt that changes in the support of the arts and the approaching millennium made the arts a timely area of study. The conference is supported by private organizations, including AT&T, the Ford Foundation and the New York Times Foundation.
Opinions diverged widely, but there seemed to be agreement that that more collaboration is essential. Don Frantz, an executive with Walt Disney Theatrical Productions, spoke of "coming out of the Magic Castle and up the hilltop," the hilltop being Arden House, where this conference and many others have been held. In suggesting that people think more about the individual artist, he noted that Julie Taymor, an experimental theater director, was staging the live version of the Disney animated musical "The Lion King" on Broadway.
Repeatedly cases were mentioned in which fringe artists broke through to a larger audience: all they needed was the exposure, preferably in prime time. At the end of one panel discussion, Ms. Alexander wondered aloud where "The Ed Sullivan Show" was "now that we need it." Her fellow panelists chorused that the current equivalent was Oprah Winfrey's program. An appearance on "Oprah," they said, could transform the life of a singer as well as an author.
Taking a longer view, Ms. Arthurs said that what was needed was "a map or a strategy," perhaps a new role in the arts for the business community or some way to combine public and private financing to meet the needs of the arts in the 21st century.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A conference in Harriman, N.Y., is addressing the ties between the arts and commerce. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (57%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (57%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRITERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); POETRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



666 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: First-Quarter Growth Rate Rose to 5.8%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30

 BODY:
The economy's growth was stronger than initially estimated during the first three months of the year, the Commerce Department reported today. It recalculated the first-quarter output to an annual pace of 5.8 percent, the highest in nearly a decade, from 5.6 percent.
But more current indicators, including a slump of housing sales last month, seemed to confirm that the economy was slowing markedly from its late 1996 and early 1997 burst and could be settling back toward a sustainable pace before reviving inflation. 
 Sales of new homes, the department reported, dropped 7.7 percent in April, the steepest decline in six months and far more than could be attributed to a slim rise in mortgage rates. This followed Tuesday's report that sales of existing homes fell 2.4 percent last month.
Analysts saw the fresh signs of deceleration as supporting the Federal Reserve's decision last week to forgo raising rates despite a very tight labor market in which the unemployment rate has fallen to 4.9 percent.
"That is shaping up to look like a very good decision," said David F. Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. "Things are falling into place in terms of convincing evidence for a slowdown."
Mr. Seiders lowered his forecast for gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services within American borders -- to a 1.7 percent annual rate for the current quarter, less than a third of the rate in the January-March period.
Leif H. Olsen, a consultant in New Canaan, Conn., largely concurred. "We're already seeing a sharp slowdown in demand" this spring, he said, referring to soft automotive and other retail sales.
Yet some analysts contend that the slowdown will not be enough to keep the Federal Reserve from raising rates at its meeting in early July.
"We've got an economy that is really pretty hot," said Stephen S. Roach, economist at Morgan Stanley. "Any slowdown is going to be short-lived," he added, declaring that the Federal Reserve's "bet" in May that the economy was returning to a sustainable growth pace of 2 to 2 1/2 percent "is just dead wrong."
The Commerce Department's modest upward revision of first-quarter G.D.P, to a 5.8 percent pace from the 5.6 percent estimated at the end of April, was largely in line with expectations, though some analysts had guessed the figure would be upward of 6 percent.
Larger inventories and exports each contributed $5.5 billion more to output than first estimated, more than offsetting a $4.9 billion downward adjustment to personal spending for nondurables.
Inflation, as gauged by the price index for gross domestic purchases, remained at 2.2 percent, the same rate reported a month ago.
Corporate profits for the winter quarter, computed by the department for the first time, soared as expected though some analysts expressed mild disappointment.
"In relation to G.D.P., they're rather subdued since they're highly leveraged to growth," commented Maureen F. Allyn, chief economist at Scudder, Stevens & Clark.
Profits from current production surged 7 percent, or $46.7 billion, after declining 1.1 percent, or $7.2 billion, in the final 1996 quarter, the department found.
Cash flow from current production -- the internal funds available for investment -- advanced 4.5 percent after edging two-tenths of 1 percent lower in the fourth quarter.
"All the available evidence suggests that our economy is on a sustainable trajectory for continued job creation and sustained growth in output," Janet L. Yellen, chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, said in a written statement. "The main symptom of economic overheating would be rising inflation. And we simply have not seen that."
Although the drop in new homes was the steepest in six months, analysts said this was a volatile set of statistics, one that may have also been artifically swollen lately by new methodology.
And the 7.7 percent skid, to an annual pace of 772,000, would have been only two-thirds as large had the department not improved the March performance with a sizable revision that transformed a 2.5 percent decline to a 2 percent advance.
"We're not really alarmed," said Mr. Seiders, who cited the decline as consistent with the slowing economy, with sales slipping below the 800,000 pace for the first time this year. Inventories of new homes remain lean, he added, with less than five months' supply at the latest selling rate.
Activity in the Northeast was unchanged in April while sales fell 16.5 percent in the West, 6 percent in the South and 2.9 percent in the Midwest.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Real Economic Growth" shows the annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, 1993-97.; "New-Home Sales" shows new private homes sold during each month from Nov. 1995 to Apr. 97.; "Prices of New Homes" shows the median price for new homes from Nov. 1995 to Apr. 97. (Sources: Commerce Department)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MORGAN STANLEY (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; HOUSING; SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



667 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Move Higher, Aided by Foreign Purchases

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended higher yesterday, bolstered by economic reports that showed no unwelcome surprises for the bond market and also aided by overseas buying and comments by a Federal Reserve official.
The price of the 30-year bond ended the day up 26/32, to 96 15/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.91 percent, from 6.97 percent on Thursday, reaching the lowest level in two weeks. 
 "This is one of the quietest rallies you can imagine, with central bank buying from overseas really driving the market up," said Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of fixed-income investing at J. W. Charles Securities Inc. in Boca Raton, Fla.
"From a technical standpoint," he said, "we saw a key support area tested and hold, then reverse and go up through minor resistance levels; technicians love that. Going forward, expect increased volatility, and I definitely expect a Fed tightening in July."
Kim Rupert, an economist with MMS International in San Francsico, said the whole tone of the market was different from earlier in the week. "Hedge fund selling has dried up and it seems to be back on the buy side," she said near midday yesterday. "There is foreign investor buying, with flows out of Europe to the safe haven of the U.S. securities market, and because of the decline in stocks, some flight to quality to the short end of the Treasury market."
Economic data released yesterday helped confirm a view that the economy is slowing. The Purchasing Management Association of Chicago said that its manufacturing index fell to 56.8, from 57.2 in April. While its prices component was up, the employment component was down.
The Government said the economy grew at a 5.8 percent rate in the first quarter, up from an original estimate of 5.6 percent. It also reported that sales of new homes fell 7.7 percent last month, exceeding analysts' expectations of a 1.7 percent drop.
Comments by the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William McDonough, bolstered the market's optimism over the data.
Speaking to reporters after a speech to the Financial Markets Association in Toronto, Mr. McDonough said that "the data for the second quarter thus far indicate that the economy clearly is starting to slow down."
Prices and, for that matter, inflation have remained subdued, he said, in part because the gain in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies last year helped to hold down the price of imported goods. Were it not for the dollar's strength, he said, the rate of inflation would have been half a point higher in the first quarter of this year.
Next week, the market will shift its focus to a survey from the National Association of Purchasing Management on Monday and the May employment report on Friday.
"This week economic data were not too significant, with market participants more focused on next week's numbers," Ms. Rupert of MMS International said.
In other trading, "the municipal bond market has been so quiet you can hear two butterflies kiss," Mr. Pugliese of J. W. Charles Securities said, "probably because the yield spread to Treasuries has widened."
"However, there are two huge refunding months in June and July and we are seeing demand," he said. "But again the investment public is mesmerized by the stock market right now and that is affecting the fixed-income markets."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM J MCDONOUGH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



668 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Slovenia Discards the Yoke That Was Yugoslavia

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: CRNGROB, Slovenia, May 30

 BODY:
A group of soldiers seated under a clump of trees, with drooping ferns tucked into the bands of their helmets, called out coordinates to companions manning four old Soviet-style mortars.
The rustle of the leaves overhead, the gentle chatter of songbirds and the tranquillity of an Alpine slope on a spring afternoon all seemed to mock the art of war. 
 And nothing in this small band of conscripts, or the old tube-shaped mortars in the valley below, evoked the savage blood quest that has seized so many young men a few hundred miles away in Bosnia.
"Most of us just want to do our seven months in the army and go home," said Matej Ahacic, 21.
But this tiny nation, with a professional army smaller than an American division, is pressing to add its name to the list of countries whose applications for membership are being considered by NATO. At the meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Sintra, Portugal, on Thursday, 9 of 16 NATO countries said that despite United States calls to limit new members to Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic, they would also back the entry of Slovenia and Romania.
Officials here readily acknowledge that their military is years away from reaching NATO's standards, and it is not clear what Slovenia would do if the alliance granted its wish immediately.
"We hope to have the whole Slovenian Army, including the reservists, integrated with NATO equipment by 2010," Gen. Janez Kavar, a member of the general staff, said in a recent interview. "If we do not make it into NATO in the first round, our energy and vision will remain the same. Membership in NATO, for us, means achieving real national security."
Only Slovenia has lifted itself out of the morass that grips the countries of the former Yugoslavia. It has emerged as one of the crucial demarcation points between the new Western-oriented countries of post-cold-war Europe and those that seem destined to wallow for decades in political and economic disaary.
The other nations that once made up Yugoslavia -- Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Croatia -- appear increasingly likely to remain outside most Western military and economic organizations.
"Membership in NATO and the European Union is as much about the identity Slovenes hope to forge as a European state as it is about anything else," a Western diplomat said. "And if they fail to enter these two organizations, it will be a real blow to their perception of who they are and where they are headed."
The alliance will meet to admit new members next month. It last admitted a new member -- Spain -- 15 years ago.
Slovenia has little to offer the alliance militarily. This country of two million has only 4,100 career combat troops and 56,000 reservists, most of whom still use old Soviet-style weapons left behind by the retreating Yugoslav Army at the time of independence six years ago. Few officers have much formal military training, and it will be years, especially with an annual military budget of $310 million, before it can fully modernize its arsenal.
But Slovenia has geopolitical value. The country, which flanks Austria and Italy, provides a land link to Hungary. Its inclusion in the alliance would also send a message to other nations in transition from Communism, like Croatia, that have refused to liberalize their economies, establish full democratic rule or abide by the Bosnian peace accords: there are tangible benefits to cooperating with the Western alliance. Given the possibility of renewed unrest in the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia offers both stability and a bridgehead in the region, Western diplomats say.
The Slovenes often seem to be retreating as fast as they can from the embrace of the former Yugoslavia. Road and rail links into Austria and Hungary are being expanded while the asphalt strip to Zagreb, Croatia's capital, is so narrow and decrepit that cars and trucks crawl over the border. There is no military cooperation agreement with Croatia, although agreements have been signed with Italy, Austria and Hungary.
And Slovene officials, who led a 10-day war of independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, never tire of emphasizing their ties with the Hapsburg empire, which ruled Slovenia from the 16th century until the end of World War I in 1918.
Memberships in NATO and the European Union seem to most Slovenes the best tickets out of a region with a history rife with war and bloodshed.
"Take a look at what is happening in the former Yugoslavia," said a senior Foreign Ministry official. "The conflict is not over, the economies are a disaster and there is no real democratic rule. Can you blame us for wanting to cut our ties as fast as we can?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Slovenia is pushing to join NATO, even though it has just 4,100 career combat troops and 56,000 reservists and is years away from reaching the alliance's standards. Soldiers trained near their barracks in Kranj. (Srdjan Zivulovic for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Slovenia: The majority of NATO members are in favor of Slovenia's entry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SLOVENIA (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); ROMANIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; SLOVENIA; ROMANIA; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; SLOVENIA (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); ROMANIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POLITICS (61%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



669 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Congress Is Assailed Over Its Removal of Judges

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, May 30

 BODY:
Peru's Congress came under sharp criticism today from Western diplomats, human rights groups and business and political leaders for its decision on Thursday to oust three members of a constitutional court who ruled that President Alberto K. Fujimori could not seek a third consecutive term.
The United States Ambassador in Lima, Dennis C. Jett, said today that the dismissal of the judges was "a step backward in the consolidation of democracy in Peru," a poor Andean country emerging from years of guerrilla warfare and military dictatorship. 
 The Peruvian Congress voted 52 to 33 to dismiss the judges, Manuel Aguirre, Delia Revoredo and Guillermo Rey, who ruled in December that Mr. Fujimori could not run for President again because he will have already served the constitutional limit of two terms.
"I definitely see this as a step backward because when one key democratic institution oversteps its bounds and attacks another, rather than respect a decision, it only serves to weaken the whole democratic system, which is based on institutions and not on individuals," Mr. Jett said, referring to the control Mr. Fujimori exercises over the Congress through his political party, Change 90.
Human rights groups said the removal of the judges was the worst setback for democracy in Peru since Mr. Fujimori dismissed Congress and the courts and seized near-dictatorial powers in 1992 -- a move the President said was necessary to fight terrorism and rebuild the shattered economy.
"There are no longer any checks on Fujimori's power," Anne Manuel, deputy director for Human Rights Watch/Americas, said in a telephone interview from Washington. "He so thoroughly controls the Congress that he can get them to do whatever he wants, and now dismissing these judges clearly demonstrates that his Government won't tolerate an independent judiciary."
Mirko Laurer, a prominent political analyst, said in his column in the newspaper La Republica that the three judges had been removed in the same spirit that Mr. Fujimori had eliminated the Tupac Amaru rebels in the military operation that freed hostages at the Japanese Ambassador's residence in Lima last month.
The ouster of the three judges paves the way for Mr. Fujimori to run for a third term in 2000. When he was first elected President, in 1990, the Constitution prohibited re-election. After declaring martial law in 1992, he persuaded a new Congress, dominated by his party, to change the Constitution to allow two consecutive five-year terms. He was re-elected in 1995 by an overwhelming margin.
Last year, Mr. Fujimori persuaded Congress to approve a legal interpretation that considers his current term his first under the new Constitution, making him eligible to run for a third term.
But when the congressional interpretation went before the constitutional court at the request of a Peruvian lawyers' group, the three judges ruled that allowing Mr. Fujimori to run again would violate the Constitution.
Three other justices of the court abstained, and the head constitutional justice upheld the decision of his three colleagues who voted against Mr. Fujimori's right to run again.
Congress dismissed the three judges on ground that they violated the Constitution because they exceeded their authority by signing a document on behalf of the full court. The head justice's case is still pending before Congress.
Although he has not formally announced this intention to seek a third term, Mr. Fujimori has said in recent interviews that he would not rule out that possibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COURTS; JUDGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ELECTIONS DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); TERRORISM (73%); APPROVALS (65%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES); AGUIRRE, MANUEL (JUDGE); REVOREDO, DELIA (JUDGE); REY, GUILLERMO (JUDGE) MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



670 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Wagenia Journal;
By Hook or by Crook, a Fishing Village Gets By

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: WAGENIA, Congo

 BODY:
This fishing village is authentic; it has been here so long that the Wagenias boast that they were the first Africans to know how to swim. But because its nets extend into the famous Stanley Falls and because it is right next to Congo's third-largest city, Kisangani, it is also something of a national monument.
There's a decaying arch at the village entrance commemorating visits by Mobutu Sese Seko, the former President, and the elaborate nets that the villagers hang in the falls were once featured on the national currency. 
 These days, though, any visitor here, watching a six-inch fish struggling to wriggle out of a 10-foot trap while a Wagenia villager reaches a long arm in after it, knows exactly how the fish feels.
Congo has just fought a civil war, and tourists are few and far between. And it has been a long time since fishing was enough to pay the village's bills by itself.
So when a couple of out-of-towners appeared in the village one recent day, interrupting a late-afternoon soccer game, 20 young men broke off from the crowd to walk with them. The day's catch, it was apparent, had arrived.
Stanley Falls -- better known here as the Chutes des Wagenia -- have none of the drama of Niagara Falls in New York or Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe. They are really a series of rapids with drops of eight feet or so. Their historical importance is that they made the River Congo impassable, so the town of Stanleyville had to be built as a terminus for a short railroad that carries passengers and freight around the cataracts to the upstream boats and barges. In recent weeks, it has carried Hutu refugees out of the forest.
Under their legendary chief, Lowao, the Wagenia built villages on both sides of the falls and the small islands in between. They are considered a separate tribe, and they say their name either means "nomads" or derives from the local word for speaking and means "people who talk too much."
They fish by building log scaffoldings over the falls and suspending rows of cone-shaped nets from them. Everything, including the ropes, is made of jungle vines and trees. But like the impossibly ordered cuteness of some restored New England whaling town, the painful authenticity here seems a bit fishy, since African villagers are usually remarkable at recycling 20th-century castoffs -- old cans into toys, old tires into sandals. Nylon rope would last longer. And, in fact, young boys who are not putting on a show for the tourists weave their hand nets out of nylon thread and weight them with bits of lead that they strip off underwater electric cables.
But the authentic nets produce income from more than one source.
"The men want to know -- would you like to see how they fish?" asked Jeff Ngazi N'sila Lissa, a villager who says he divides his time between tending his family's net and studying sociology at the University of Kisangani. "They will show you, if you will give them something."
Even though fetching scenes were unfolding free at the water's edge -- a man climbing out of his net with his catch stuck deep in his mouth, a woman washing her clothes, children dangerously deep in the rapids with hand nets -- the men seemed quite insistent.
In the prewar days, when the local government was organized enough to staff the booth near the arch, money would be collected there and used, at least in part, for the general good of the village. But now that booth is a tiny store, its shelves stocked with detergent and matches. So the villagers have to fend for themselves.
Mr. Ngazi said the official entrance price used to be $20 for a small camera and $30 for a big camera. Although that seemed high for a country where the average income is $150 a year, it was agreed to, and a dozen men eased themselves out over the torrent on the wet logs to demonstrate net-hoisting while Mr. Ngazi answered questions.
A few villagers slip each year and are dashed to death on the rocks, he said. Only old men fish at night because the river is stalked by phantoms who have the heads of men and the bodies of crocodiles and eat young people.
There are many kinds of fish, but the two prize catches are "hydroxon Goliathe" and "captain."
"For a large captain, you can get even $200 in the market and buy clothes and food and pay school fees for the children," Mr. Ngazi said.
Beside him on the riverbank, a boy built a tiny fire on a rock, wrapped a few wet fingerlings in a leaf, squeezed on peppers and lime, and plunged the leaf purse into the flames to cook.
Despite the river's bounty, times got steadily worse in Wagenia in the 32 years of Mr. Mobutu's rule as inflation rose and tourism disappeared. The whole village is ecstatic that the rebels led by Laurent Kabila ousted Mr. Mobutu, and hopes that good times are just around the river bend.
"Now we shall eat bread, like Americans," Mr. Ngazi said. "We shall have one goat for one person. Even one cow for one person, like America! We shall be very full -- like Mike Tyson!"
But as the demonstration ended in a pink sunset over the falls, it became clear that uncertain times mean other problems for a small village. With the new national Government still getting organized, there is no legal chief -- the kind of authority figure who could take $30 and distribute it evenly. So a shouting match developed on the riverbank over whose hand would accept the money.
In the end, Mr. Ngazi did, and quickly pocketed $20 of it, escalating shouting into shoving. The walk back was a long gauntlet of outstretched palms and whispered demands, and the car departed in a light shower of local blessings. If the catch had been better, they would have been fish guts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Stanley Falls in Congo, the visitors are few and far between these days, and those who venture there are prey to the local fishermen. Two young girls used a veil as a net while fishing in the falls. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Wagenia, Congo: Fishing these days falls short of paying the bills in Wagenia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (88%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONGO RIVER (79%); NORTHEAST USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); WAGENIA (CONGO); STANLEY FALLS (CONGO); AFRICA (88%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONGO RIVER (79%); NORTHEAST USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES NATIONAL PARKS (73%); REFUGEES (69%); SOCCER (52%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR MOBUTU SESE SEKO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



671 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Live From New York

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

 BODY:
"Hey, hey, hey, hey, wake up, sleepyheads! It's Morning in America! Saturday Morning in America!"
Susan Molinari's round little face is all smiley and scrunched up. The perky pixie looks into the camera for her first live news show, sitting in her spanking new red, white and blue set in the studio at West 57th. 
 "First of all, I want to thank the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn for the faith they put in me during my four terms in Congress. And I want to thank Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS, for the faith he put in me, transitioning me from politics to media even though some newsies with no sense of fun complained that I do not have the experience to be a news anchor person.
"To those of you out there who are worried that I won't have enough objectivity and detachment to be a serious journalist, I would simply say -- Lighten up! How objective does a girl have to be to follow in Diane Sawyer's high heels? Besides, D'Amato and Pataki think that CBS on Saturday morning is the perfect positioning for me to run for the New York Senate seat against George Stephanopoulos, since he's running from ABC on Sunday morning.
"Oh, my goodness, media critics have tried to turn this into some sort of watershed in the corruption of TV news. But, I mean, what did Rosie O'Donnell know about talk shows before she got one?
"The only person at CBS who was really upset -- she came at me one day in the cafeteria with an icepick -- was Laura Ingraham, who thought that if Andy wanted a G.O.P. blonde with no experience to star in this show, it should be her.
"I'm going to work hard to be balanced, and I've assembled a crack team to help me out. Over here on my left is my band, Trent Lott and the 'Singing Senators.' And on my right is my sidekick, Guy Molinari. I call him 'Daddy.' And in his lap is my baby, America's baby, Susan Ruby. This morning, when I got Susan Ruby up, her diaper was off, so then I had to bathe her before I fed her and that annoyed her, so she pooped on the comforter, and we haven't really recouped from that."
Susan takes a drag on a cigarette, and giggles. "I really should quit because of Susan Ruby. But tobacco has done so much for the gross national product.
"We have a very exciting show today. We'll hear from our answer to Martha Stewart, Kay Bailey Hutchison, who will show us some low-cost, nutritious menus for those moms we finally kicked off welfare. Christie Todd Whitman will take us abroad for a visit with the Beautiful Men of Sweden. We'll have our own free-for-all discussion, in which all points of view will be heard -- someone from the right will argue with someone from the far right. We'll have a review of new hip-hop releases by our rap critic, Pat Boone. We'll have an interview with Tiger Woods by our special correspondent to the U.S. Open, Dan Quayle. Dick Armey will do 'Book Notes.' And Peggy Noonan gives the first of her eloquent weekly commentaries on American values, 'Oh, It Was Ever Thus.'
"But first we're going to hear from our weatherman, Bill Paxon."
"You know, Susie, you don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows. It'll be mild and seasonable in the Republican Sun Belt but there will be showers on the liberal Northeast. Global warming continues to cool, the ozone hole is doing fine and the air quality is, as always, perfect."
"Thanks, honey, and can you change the baby's diaper before you go? Now, for my very first guest, I am so thrilled and proud to have someone I really look up to. The Speaker of the House is here to talk about his new book, 'Lessons of Leadership,' which will help him pay off that stupid cost assessment for that appearance of conflict of interest. They said I couldn't bring myself to ask you the tough questions, Newt. Let's prove them wrong."
"O.K., Susie, fire away."
"O.K., Newt, what's it like to be a great man?"
"Funny you should ask. That's just what my new book is about. Lesson No. 1: Surround yourself with lieutenants who are more hideous than you are, so that people will be afraid to get rid of you. Lesson No. 2: Think galactically."
"You're a genius, Newt. Well, this show flew by faster than a Bill Clinton promise. Join me next week, when my dad will talk about his proposal to crush the skulls of doctors who perform partial-birth abortions. And that's, like, the way it is."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JOURNALISM (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); POLITICS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (63%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; MOLINARI, SUSAN (REPR) DIANE SAWYER (57%); TRENT LOTT (55%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (55%); MARTHA STEWART (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



672 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
"He came preaching and teaching, and he left preaching and teaching," said the Rev. Jesse Jackson on Thursday when they buried the Rev. Samuel DeWitt Proctor from Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem. A week earlier Dr. Proctor had suffered a fatal heart attack while lecturing to college students in Iowa.
At 75, he had remained one of the most sought-after speakers in the nation. It was not surprising that among the saddened congregants, friends and family members who filled the church, where Dr. Proctor was pastor from 1972 to 1989, were an astonishing number of preachers. 
 Many began gathering early that morning in the study of Dr. Proctor's successor, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d. Some were elder statesmen of the African-American clergy, like Dr. Proctor himself. Many others were Dr. Proctor's students. The words on everyone's lips were "masterful preacher" and "mentor."
"He never wasted a sentence," said the Rev. Lawrence Carter, Dean of the Chapel at Morehouse College in Atlanta.
"He opened up doors," said the Rev. William S. Epps, who was Dr. Proctor's associate pastor at Abyssinian from 1972 to 1975 and now leads the Second Baptist Church in Los Angeles.
"He didn't hesitate to give us every opportunity to grow and do new things," said the Rev. Marvin A. McMickle, who had been on the staff at Abyssinian and is now pastor of Antioch Baptist Church in Cleveland. "By the thousands, there are people who feel he made the decisive impact in their lives."
New Yorkers knew Dr. Proctor as the man who succeeded the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell Jr. as pastor of Abyssinian. The church, founded when Jefferson was President, had been led since 1938 by Mr. Powell, the legendary Harlem churchman and Congressman, and it had felt the ups and downs -- since the late 1960's, mostly downs -- of Mr. Powell's public career. It was Dr. Proctor who had steadied the vessel and restored the spiritual ballast.
But the scores of young clergymen from all corners of the United States were testimony to Dr. Proctor's status as a national figure. So was the presence of Sargent Shriver, President John F. Kennedy's aide and brother-in-law, who had persuaded Dr. Proctor to assume important posts in the Peace Corps and later in the Office of Economic Opportunity.
As much an educator as a pastor, Dr. Proctor was president of two historically black universities, Virginia Union and North Carolina A&T State. He was the initiator of major programs for advancing African-American scholars and, for 15 years, the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Professor at the Rutgers University School of Education.
Befriend, instruct, aid, advise -- that was the lifelong pattern. In 1950, on a return trip to Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pa., where Dr. Proctor had once been the only African-American student, Dr. Proctor met Martin Luther King Jr. He quickly engaged the bright young man in conversation, maintained contact over the next years, offered him speaking opportunities and, as the bus boycott got under way in Montgomery, Ala., spoke in turn at Dr. King's church in Montgomery.
He counseled Medgar Evers in Mississippi and taught the future Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia in an ethics course.
"He gave me a chance," Mr. Jackson said on Thursday, telling the mourners how, after leaving the University of Illinois and his football scholarship in a despondent mood, he had showed up at North Carolina A&T without money or academic credentials.
Mr. Jackson said his generation was full of "Proctorians," who sometimes compete to see who can be the "most Proctor."
"I have spent all of my adult life trying to make Dr. Proctor proud of me," he said.
One mourner, sitting largely unrecognized among many of the "Proctorians" present, was Lorraine Smoller, Dr. Proctor's secretary at Rutgers for 21 years. She described his constant battles to catch planes and keep track of his speeches.
In 1979, when he was hospitalized after a heart attack, she said, "he had me come to the hospital to take dictation." And before he left for Iowa this month, she recalled, "he was kidding around -- 'Don't they know I'm an old man?' "
In May 1989, the year Dr. Proctor retired as pastor, Bill Moyers, who had worked with him in the Peace Corps and the War on Poverty, noted this tirelessness:
"Sometimes I think Sam Proctor must have lived his entire life on a public platform, speaking," Mr. Moyers wrote in a foreword to some of Dr. Proctor's autobiographical reflections, "My Moral Odyssey" (Judson Press, 1989). "The first time I saw him, he was speaking," Mr. Moyers wrote. "The last time I saw him, he was speaking. Even as I write, it is commencement season in the U.S., and reliable sources tell me that Sam Proctor will deliver more graduation speeches than any other person in the country."
"Actually, Sam does not just speak," Mr. Moyers continued. "He preaches. Oh, my, how he preaches. He is a born preacher. And I am certain that when the Pearly Gates swing open and Sam strides through to claim his richly deserved crown, the first question he will put to St. Peter will be, 'Where's the pulpit?' "
At Thursday's service, the Rev. Gardner C. Taylor, Pastor Emeritus of Concord Baptist Church of Christ in Brooklyn, was the final speaker. Dr. Taylor hammered out the ways in which Dr. Proctor remained faithful to his calling until the repeated "faithful" was picked up by the congregation and reverberated around the sanctuary.
Only Dr. Taylor, in many people's estimation the greatest pulpit orator in the United States today, could declaim that Dr. Proctor died "with his sword unsheathed and his armor still in place" and that "he went directly to see the King with the stain of battle still on his garments."
Jesse Jackson put it less dramatically: 'He came preaching and teaching, and he left preaching and teaching."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); RELIGION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (75%); JESSE JACKSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



673 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Don't Punish Nigerians

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Nadine Gordimer (Op-Ed, May 25) accurately describes the facts regarding the lack of freedom of the press in Nigeria.
But when she asks for international sanctions that will "put a stop to all abuses of flesh, mind and spirit in Nigeria" she is asking us to punish the millions who live under the corrupt regime of Gen. Sani Abacha and who will starve in greater numbers if her idea is implemented. 
 We need a foreign policy that will weaken corruption, injustice and human rights abuses by the rulers of countries, but one that will not punish helpless citizens.
 
CARL R. HUTTER
Wilmington, Del., May 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (50%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA; NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (50%); DELAWARE, USA (50%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); CORRUPTION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: GORDIMER, NADINE; HUTTER, CARL R NADINE GORDIMER (74%); SANI ABACHA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



674 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Party In Indonesia Tightens Grip

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, May 30

 BODY:
As votes were counted today from the remote mountains and distant islands of this far-flung nation, the Government party consolidated what appeared to be a record margin of victory in Thursday's election.
But although the tightly choreographed election produced the result the Government intended, Indonesia was left with more questions than answers to the issues raised in the often violent campaign: 
 *Will the riots that unsettled the nation before the election subside, or will the discontent they demonstrated continue to build?
*Did the overwhelming victory for the party of President Suharto enhance his credibility after 31 years in office, or will it only increase the frustrations of those who demand a more open political system?
*And will the leadership now take more effective steps to address the causes of discontent, including corruption, social and economic disparities and overbearing and unresponsive Government institutions?
With 85 percent of the vote counted, the Government party, Golkar, had won 74 percent of the vote, exceeding its 68 percent in the last election, five years ago, and its previous record of 73.2 percent, in 1968.
The total today for the United Development Party was 23 percent, up from 17 percent in 1992. The fragmented and squabbling Indonesian Democratic Party won just 3 percent, down from 15 percent.
The data reported today did not include figures for the turnout, and there was no indication of the effectiveness of an opposition campaign to boycott the election.
There were indications today that the opposition might protest the vote. "There were many frauds that we consider as very, very serious," said Tosarai Wijaya, campaign manager of the United Development Party.
And there was at least one outbreak of violence today, in Sampang, 400 miles east of here, where the police said 3,000 opponents of Golkar had rampaged through the streets, throwing stones at Government buildings, burning houses and damaging cars in a pattern that became familiar during the campaign.
Even if the opposition protests the vote, that would not prevent the new Parliament from convening as planned. It will include the 425 members elected on Thursday, plus 75 members from the military. Next March, this group will be joined by 500 delegates chosen by the Government to form an assembly to select the President. Mr. Suharto, 75, is generally believed to plan to remain in office for a seventh term.
In every past assembly since 1971, Mr. Suharto has been named President without opposition.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
U.S. Criticizes Vote
WASHINGTON, May 30 (Reuters) -- The United States called today for changes in Indonesia's political system, citing reports of multiple voting irregularities.
John Dinger, a State Department spokesman. said: "The electoral system severely limits political competition. Indonesian citizens do not have the ability to change their government through democratic means."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; SAMPANG (INDONESIA); INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RIOTS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); BOYCOTTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



675 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Dollars Chasing a $70 Million State Lottery Dream

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Worried that television ads cluttered with yachts and limos might be sending the wrong message, Gov. George E. Pataki asked state lottery officials last year to tone down their enticing "Hey, you never know" pitch. The ads should avoid raising unrealistic expectations, he said, and should stress that the lottery's primary purpose is to raise money for education.
But an informal survey of people lined up dozens deep at pharmacies, newsstands, candy shops and bodegas yesterday suggested that the old message had stuck and the new one had failed to make much of an impression. Few of those waiting to plunk down money, at 12,913,583-to-one odds, for a chance at today's $70 million jackpot mentioned education financing. 
 They wagered at the rate of $1.6 million an hour, and for the old reasons, often explaining themselves in the language of the defunct commercials. "A dollar and a dream," said Derrick Duhon as he bought a handful of tickets at a delicatessen in downtown Brooklyn, bringing his total to $90. "A dollar and a dream," he repeated.
The man in line behind him, who declined to give his name, repeated another slogan: "You have to be in it to win it."
This is the third biggest jackpot in New York lottery history, after January 1991, when nine winners shared $90 million, and October 1994, when four winners shared $72.5 million. But in keeping with their sober new tone, lottery officials were not exactly touting the chance of big winnings.
Ric Grenell, a New York State Lottery spokesman, advised New Yorkers to buy just one ticket.
"Be careful," Mr. Grenell said. "You're probably not going to win."
This is not news to most. Charles Hearne, 46, who bought tickets from five places in the Bronx's Parkchester section and was not finished, said that in his lifetime he has spent $10,000 on lottery tickets and made $1,000. "It's not a wise investment," he said.
But it appears to be an irresistible one. "It's like a shiny lure in the water," said Jeffrey Papale, 44, an unemployed painter from Whitestone, Queens. "It's a stupendous amount of money."
People dreamed about what they might do with the jackpot. Christy Smith, who bought a ticket at an East Village pharmacy since she needed some cigarettes anyway, would buy a houseboat in Amsterdam. Raymond McCoy, a farmer in Riverhead, N.Y., would hire a chauffeur.
Gil Miranda, a customer at the pharmacy, had a larger vision. "I'm going to clean up the environment, help fight cancer and buy a condo in Miami Beach," he said.
The enthusiasm for the lottery is suggested by a record $4 billion spent on tickets last year, a pace that has accelerated since. "What other gambling can you do where you spend $1 and it can change your life forever?" said Barry Miller, managing editor of LottoWorld, a Naples, Fla., magazine. "It's a fantasy."
Yesterday, in another indication of the public fascination with lotteries, Mr. Miller began writing a column in The Daily News under the title, "Ask Mr. Lotto." In his first column, Mr. Miller explained how the key numbers in the actress Melanie Griffith's life -- like 14, the age she began living with Don Johnson -- might provide the key to a winning card.
Drawings are held each Wednesday and Saturday. Today's drawing at 11:21 P.M. follows five in which nobody won. The cycle began with a $4 million prize. Since there was no winner, it was automatically increased to $10 million the next drawing, then $15 million, $25 million and finally $40 million this Wednesday.
Mr. Grenell said amounts above $40 million are determined on the basis of a combined analysis of the finances of all the state's lottery games. So he could not predict what the prize would be next Wednesday were no winner drawn tonight.
There were still at least a few people who were not remotely interested. "My old legs couldn't stand it," said Eleanor Haas, a retired nurse, who gazed at the long line buying tickets at the Port Authority Bus Terminal as she sipped a cup of coffee.
Nicole Cole, an architecture student at Cooper Union, said she was too busy for lotteries. A bus ticket salesman who declined to give his name said he was a pessimist. Anna Shteynshleyger, waiting for a bus, said, "I wasn't even aware it was going on."
Others refused to play because they consider the lottery pernicious. Jim Rodriguez, 54, a retired security guard from the South Bronx, said he was not contributing to what he considers legalized theft from working people. He said: "It's all rigged. It seems like a lot of money goes into it and I don't see a lot of improvements. There's not much being done to improve the schools for the kids."
Mr. Grenell said the lottery contributed $1.4 billion to education last year. Of each $1 spent on tickets, he said, 50 cents goes to winners, 39 cents to education, 6 cents to the seller of the ticket and the rest for advertising and administration.
As for the assertion that the lottery takes advantage of the disadvantaged, Mr. Miller said that studies done by LottoWorld found that the average lottery player is 30 to 50 years of age, makes $30,000 to $50,000 a year and has completed high school and one year of college.
But as thousands line up clutching hot pink cards and cool green cash, some people see it as a waste.
'People will spend their whole life savings and never win," said Kamiyla Van Cleave, 39, who was selling incense and scrolls in the Bronx. "They are dreaming, and what are dreams but illusions?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buying New York Lottery tickets at 114 Liberty Street in Manhattan yesterday. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES; GAMBLING LOTTERIES (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PHARMACIES (71%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



676 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Price Decrease For Used Autos Reverses Trend

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 30

 BODY:
After rising briskly for four years, prices for used cars have begun to fall, and the effects are rippling through the auto industry.
The used-car market has always been a complicated bellwether, both of industry trends and of the overall American economy. Weaker prices now may reflect a fading in the popularity of used cars, after several years in which they had increasingly been seen as alternatives to new cars. 
 Used-car prices climbed 4 to 9 percent a year from 1992 through 1995. Auto industry officials attributed the rise to the greater durability of cars, the wider availability of used-car warranties and a growing public acceptance of low-mileage, late-model used cars as an alternative to new cars.
But retail prices for used cars, as measured by part of the Consumer Price Index, have fallen 2 percent the last 12 months, even as new-car prices have inched up by nine-tenths of 1 percent.
These are several effects that are clear from the current drop in used-car prices:
*Better deals are becoming available for consumers shopping for used cars.
*New-car buyers are beginning to get less money for their trade-ins.
*People who lease cars later this year may have to pay a few more dollars a month than they would today, because lease payments are calculated to cover the drop in a car's value over the term of the lease.
*Profits for auto makers and dealers alike will be hurt, as it becomes harder for auto makers to sell profitably cars returned at the end of leases and as dealers' used-car inventories erode in value.
*Overall inflation may lessen in the United States, because lower prices for used cars tend to slow the rise in new-car prices, and new and used cars together account for 6.3 percent of the Consumer Price Index.
The combination of falling used-car prices -- and thus lower trade-in values -- and slightly higher prices for new cars makes new cars a little less affordable, said Pete D. Cansler, a director at the Chrome Data Corporation in Portland, Ore., which tracks car prices.
"The cost of the new keeps rising, while the price of the used is falling, and you're paying the difference," he said.
That means less attractive deals for millions of Americans trying to sell or trade in their old cars and light trucks. Kelley Blue Book, an industry standard, shows a typical retail price for a two-year-old 1995 Ford Crown Victoria is $16,900, down from $17,050 a year ago for a similarly equipped 1994 model. Yet the initial price for a new Crown Victoria rose $1,970, to $21,315, from 1994 to 1995.
Used subcompacts, sports cars and luxury cars have seen particular weakness in price, said Patricia R. Erney, managing editor of the National Automobile Dealers Association's used-car handbook. Prices for used pickup trucks, midsize cars and sport utility vehicles have held up well, while prices for used mini-vans have been mixed, she said.
Retail prices might edge down a little more because wholesale prices have been falling slightly faster. According to the dealers' association, the average price of used cars and light trucks sold at wholesale auctions for dealers has dropped 3 percent the last 12 months to $9,938 from $10,242.
Industry experts attribute the erosion in used-car prices to many factors, including the steadily rising number of cars coming off lease each year and the growing availability of used sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and other vehicles previously in short supply. But the biggest single reason for the price drop seems to be a tapering off of the early 1990's great boom in used cars.
The growing reliability and durability of two- and three-year-old cars persuaded millions of car buyers over the last several years to consider used cars instead of new ones. But there are many signs now that prices have risen enough to reflect the fact that cars last longer these days than a decade ago.
There are even a few indications that the trend may be reversing itself.. Surveys by the Dohring Company, a market research group in Glendale, Calif., found this spring that only 50 percent of people who had just bought a new car would consider the purchase of a used car next time, down from 57 percent a year ago.
Most auto analysts and economists say that the popularity of used cars has simply stopped rising, so prices have also stopped rising. From now on, they predict, used-car prices will tend to bob up as the economy strengthens and dip as the economy weakens while remaining at a generally higher level than a decade ago.
"Now you're getting back to the normal trajectory" of used-car prices, said Mustafa Mohatarem, chief economist at the General Motors Corporation.
The fall in used-car prices is one of many factors contributing to a slackening in new-car sales this spring. Auto makers are scheduled to report their May sales beginning on Monday, and industry analysts expect them to report an overall drop of 5 or 6 percent from a year ago. Sales were also lower in April but very strong in the first three months of the year, when consumer demand was high for many industries.
Even if falling used-car prices do not hurt new-car sales, they could hurt auto makers and dealers in other ways. If cars returned at the end of leases cannot be sold for as much as the auto makers anticipated, the manufacturers can also face losses. And auto dealerships, including the used-car superstores opening in many cities, like Auto Nation and Car Max, expect to make money on cars that sit on their lots, not lose it.
"It's like wine sitting in the cellar -- you'd rather see it appreciate than depreciate," said Scott Merlis, an independent auto analyst in Westport, Conn.
Lessors, notably the financial arms of the auto makers but also many banks, have the bigger exposure. The average car coming off lease is now worth about 1 percent less than the lessors had calculated in advance, said Thomas C. Webb, chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association in Washington.
Samuel H. Insolera, the owner of Pacific Rim Leasing and Financial Inc. in West Paterson, N.J., which specializes in financing used cars, said that the market was weakest for two-year-old cars, which are commonly coming off lease. "Cars from the 1995 and 1996 model years are the problem children for everyone," he said.
Auto makers have been cagey about their financial reserves and other preparations for potential lease losses. Ford Motor, the most aggressive user of leases and often the most optimistic in calculating how much cars will be worth at the end of leases, is under particular scrutiny by Wall Street analysts.
Ford officials told analysts at a meeting last week that the company could be exposed to losses if used-car prices continued to fall, according to two analysts who attended the gathering. But Della DiPietro, a Ford spokeswoman, said this week that the company was not alarmed.
"It's something we're watching, but we feel we're on track," she said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Sticker Prices Turn Around" shows change in retail price of new and used cars, 1988-97. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); USED CARS AUTOMOBILE LEASING (90%); TRENDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



677 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Some Provisions Softened In Family Welfare Accord

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 30

 BODY:
Two years after Connecticut imposed the nation's shortest time limit on family welfare benefits, lawmakers have agreed to soften a provision that could have ended assistance to up to a tenth of the state's families on welfare.
Under the agreement, welfare recipients who have been sanctioned twice for failing to look for work will no longer be subject to immediate termination when the 21-month time limit expires. Instead, the state will provide them with counseling and support after their second sanction and allow them to get a six-month extension if they are judged to have made a legitimate effort to comply with the program. 
 The change is part of a package of measures to revamp the state's welfare system that tightens restrictions for able-bodied recipients who can work, while extending a safety net for those who are considered most vulnerable.
The agreement, which was reached late Thursday night, includes a number of provisions.
*It extends Medicaid benefits to teen-age children of the working poor.
*It ends welfare for single adults who are judged to be employable.
*It provides no transitional cash benefits to family welfare recipients who are cut off after 21 months because they have found work that pays more than their monthly grant -- even if that work pays less than the Federal poverty level.
*It offers Medicaid and family welfare benefits to legal immigrants who arrived here before the Federal welfare law was passed last August, despite Federal rules allowing states to deny them benefits.
The deal, which has yet to be acted on by the Legislature, could still fall apart over whether to provide Medicaid and family welfare benefits to legal immigrants who arrived in this country after the Federal welfare law was passed. Democrats want Connecticut to be one of the few states to offer them benefits, while Republicans say that such a measure would attract immigrants from New York, where such benefits are unlikely to be offered.
"That could be a deal breaker," said State Representative Robert Farr, a Republican of West Hartford, who has been part of the group negotiating the new welfare laws. "Otherwise, the agreement is pretty much in place."
In some respects, the proposal represents a major shift in the state's approach to welfare, as it acknowledges what many experts have said for years: that some recipients will need help to make the transition to employment from welfare.
Until now, the Republican Governor, John G. Rowland, has taken the position that welfare recipients should be largely responsible for finding work on their own.
On the one hand, the state imposed the time limit and allowed the Social Services Department to sanction recipients who did not look for work by reducing their benefits 20 percent for three months on the first offense, and 35 percent for six months on the second.
On the other hand, the state encouraged recipients to work by allowing them to keep all earnings in addition to their welfare checks until their income passed the poverty level. The state did not offer extensive job training services or other types of transitional assistance beyond running a job placement program.
The time limit does not apply to roughly one-third of the welfare recipients, who have been deemed unemployable. The new agreement recognizes that some recipients will need additional help.
Claudette Beaulieu, a Social Services Department spokeswoman, said the new program could be described in part as hand-holding. It would involve intensive case management with "one-on-one review with a very low ratio of clients per case manager," she said.
While Ms. Beaulieu said that only 170 families of the 43,000 on family welfare now had two sanctions, Michael W. Koslowski, Mr. Rowland's budget chief, wrote in a letter in February that roughly 10 percent of the recipients would have a problem with sanctions.
Mr. Farr said the intensive assistance was a step back from the Republican philosophy that people should "help themselves." It represented a bow to the Democratic view that there are some welfare recipients "with special needs who deserve special assistance," he said.
But Betty Gallo, a lobbyist for nonprofit antipoverty groups, said it was a meager concession in a package with significant punitive measures. "We never thought that right before the 1998 election, the Governor would throw children off of welfare."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); MEDICAID (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



678 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Political Notes;
Giuliani Enlists 'Latino' Backer Who Doesn't Quite Fit the Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
Ever since Fernando Ferrer dropped out of the mayor's race, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been aggressively courting Hispanic voters with a series of news conferences on the steps of City Hall featuring endorsements from prominent Hispanic New Yorkers, preferably Democrats.
Yesterday, the campaign held yet another event that aides said would highlight an endorsement from a "Latino Democrat," but in this case, the guest of honor was not quite as Hispanic as was his billing. 
 Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez presides over a sprawling social-services and political empire in Bushwick, Brooklyn, one of the most Hispanic neighborhoods in the city, but his own heritage is principally Italian. His surname derives from a paternal grandfather born outside Barcelona, and as he has acknowledged, he speaks limited Spanish.
That did not stop Mr. Lopez, a Democrat, from crossing party lines for the first time and praising Mr. Giuliani's efforts on behalf of Hispanic residents and immigrants. Surrounded by cheering neighborhood residents, many of whom were chanting in Spanish, he said the Mayor was the only candidate in the race who does not need a road map to Hispanic neighborhoods.
Pressed by several Spanish-speaking reporters as to his ethnic qualifications, he said he considered himself Hispanic.
"I'm proud that my grandfather was born in Spain, that he went to Italy and married my grandma," Mr. Lopez said. "I'm proud of my name, Vito Lopez, and maybe I'm not pure this or pure that, but I'm proud of who I am."
 
A Remark Stirs Criticism
 Mr. Giuliani has not been nearly as active in seeking endorsements from black officials, and his testy relationship with black New Yorkers became an issue this week after an offhand remark he made to reporters from The Washington Post in an article about New York City.
Asked by The Post to respond to critics who say he is not doing enough for minorities, the Mayor said: "They are alive. How about we start with that. You can't help people more directly than to save lives."
He was apparently referring to the decline in the murder rate, which disproportionately affects minority neighborhoods.
But the infelicitous phrasing of the remark produced an instant reaction from his political opponents and other critics, who monitor his every utterance. Former Mayor David N. Dinkins said the remark demonstrated Mr. Giuliani's insensitivity to minority concerns, and others agreed.
"I thought it demonstrated his lack of sensitivity to the problems that he's inflicted on the minority community, like overcrowded schools and high unemployment," said Sal F. Albanese, a Brooklyn Councilman who is running for the Democratic mayoral nomination.
The Mayor said that observation represented a "warped philosophy." The crime drop in minority neighborhoods has not only improved residents' lives, he said, but it has also improved their economies.
"That's what I was talking about, and that's what I delivered," Mr. Giuliani said. "And I think the old-fashioned incendiary politicians of this city will try to turn that around. It ain't going to work."
 
Waging a Green War
 Mark J. Green, the Public Advocate, had been hoping for a smooth ride to re-election -- the better to position himself to run for the United States Senate next year. But Mr. Green, who learned two weeks ago that he would face a Republican opponent, has a new problem: a primary opponent with the same last name.
Assemblyman Roger L. Green of Brooklyn says he will almost certainly circulate petitions to run against Mark Green in the Democratic primary, posing the possibility that Democrats will have a choice of Green versus Green.
Roger Green's bid is arguably quixotic: he is entering the race too late to qualify for public campaign financing, and Mark Green has sewed up almost all the organized Democratic support, which counts in a primary. But Roger Green still has the potential to cause Mark Green more than a few problems.
The Assemblyman said he is entering the race because all three Democrats running for citywide office this year are white: Mark Green, City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, who is considered the candidate most likely to win the Democratic mayoral nomination. "The slate is not inclusive, and doesn't reflect the tradition of coalition politics in the Democratic Party," Roger Green said.
He already has pledges of support from other prominent black Democrats who share the same concern. Assemblyman Gregory M. Meeks of Queens, head of the Council of Elected Black Democratic Officials, said he will certainly support Mr. Green -- Roger Green -- if he runs. "We need a party of inclusion, and the party right now is not including African-Americans," Mr. Meeks said.
Mark Green's advisers said they welcomed Roger Green's entry into the race -- and professed not to be concerned about any confusion voters might display at a choice of Green versus Green. "It's not too complicated at all," said Joe DePlasco, who is Mark Green's spokesman. "One is spelled G-R-E-E-N. And the other is spelled G-R-E-E-N."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ENDORSEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MURDER (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FIRESTONE, DAVID; FERRER, FERNANDO (BOROUGH PRES) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



679 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-6
 
Far Right May Decide Winner of French Vote
As France prepares to vote on Sunday, swing voters who support the far-right National Front are emerging as a force that could determine who governs France for the next five years. There are signs that the party's supporters, in their distaste for the establishment, may hand victory to the opposition Socialists. The party, which won 14.9 percent in the first round of voting, is in a unique position to influence the outcome, and its leader has expressed no enthusiasm for the governing center-right coalition, led by President Chirac. 1
 
Peru Congress Chastised
Peru's Congress came under attack from Western diplomats, human rights groups and business and political leaders for its decision to oust three members of a constitutional court who ruled that President Fujimori could not seek a third consecutive term. The United States called the dismissals "a step backwards in the consolidation of democracy in Peru," which is now emerging from years of guerrilla warfare and military dictatorship. 4
 
Pope Goes Home to Challenges
Pope John Paul arrives in Poland on Saturday for an 11-day trip that may be his valedictory pilgrimage to his homeland. The 77-year-old Pope will find a church where a conservative faction appears to have the upper hand, and a political scene excited by parliamentary elections in September between the former Communists and a regrouped Solidarity, which is now in opposition. 5

Beheading Alarms Japan
Japan is riveted by the beheading of an 11-year-old boy. The case has caused alarm and soul-searching in a nation that, while generally safe, has witnessed some spectacular killings in the last few years. The latest is perhaps the grisliest of all. 3
 
Uneasy Indonesian Victory
With late vote counting, the Indonesian Government party consolidated what appeared to be a record margin of victory in elections. Still, important questions were raised, about the course of recent riots, the credibility of President Suharto, and whether the leadership will take steps to address sources of discontent, including corruption, economic disparities and overbearing Government institutions. 3
 
Evacuation in Sierra Leone
United States marines landed in the capital of Sierra Leone and evacuated hundreds of foreigners fleeing from looting and violence that followed an armed coup. The marines began the operation before dawn, and over the day removed some 900 people, including 330 Americans. 4
 
New Envoy to Russia
President Clinton nominated James Collins, a senior State Department adviser, as ambassador to Russia. Mr. Collins is special adviser to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL 7-9
 
Pentagon Is Deploying New Type of Nuclear Bomb
The United States is deploying a new type of nuclear bomb, one that burrows to destroy underground factories or laboratories while causing relatively little surface damage. It is the first time since the end of the cold war that the Pentagon has put a nuclear weapon with new capabilities into the field. Military officials said the weapon, called the B-61, was less dangerous because its effects were more concentrated. Critics say it expands the nation's threat against rogue states suspected of building nuclear and chemical weapons. 1
 
Bombing Jury Deliberates
The Federal jury in the Oklahoma City bombing trial completed its first day of deliberations in the murder and conspiracy case of Timothy J. McVeigh. The judge in the case warned jurors, who are being sequestered, not to be swayed by sympathy for the victims or their families. 7

Texas Tax Revision Loses
The Texas Legislature has defeated Gov. George W. Bush's proposal to revamp the state's tax code. The plan was intended to provide more equitable financing of schools by shifting the burden from property taxes to sales and other taxes. The plan would have cut taxes over all, but opponents focused on its 0.5 percent increase in the sales tax. The defeat was the first legislative setback for the popular Governor. 7

Tobacco Talks Get Tougher
With attorneys general in several states resisting tobacco company demands for limited immunity from lawsuits, the cigarette makers are asking the opposing negotiators to set a final position in settlement talks over tobacco litigation. 8

Death Penalty Not Sought
Prosecutors have decided not to seek the death penalty for the teen-ager charged with murdering the son of Bill Cosby. No reason was given for the decision, but Mr. Cosby, in a statement, did not indicate that he had any objections to it. 8

NEW YORK/REGION 21-25
 
Inspiration of Megan's Law Convicted of Girl's Murder
A New Jersey jury convicted Jesse K. Timmendequas of raping and murdering 7-year-old Megan Kanka. Her death almost three years ago led the state and others to pass laws requiring the registration of convicted sexual predators, like Mr. Timmendequas. The jury will hear arguments beginning on June 9 on whether Mr. Timmendequas should be executed. 1

Order on Special Education
Federal officials ordered the city to reduce the number of minority students in special-education programs. The Government said there was a disproportionate number of black and Hispanic students in such classes. The city schools could face the loss of tens of millions of dollars of Federal aid. 1

Legal Battle Over Hostos
An appellate court judge overturned a ruling by a state judge in the Bronx that would have allowed 125 students at Hostos Community College to graduate on Sunday even though they had not passed the City University writing examination. 23

Students Indicted in Rape
Four high school seniors were indicted on charges of raping a classmate in a Queens school last month. District Attorney Richard A. Brown attacked school officials for their one-month delay in reporting the accusations and he joined Mayor Giuliani in calling for the Police Department to take over the training and supervision of security guards in the city's schools. 24

Welfare Rules Moderated
Connecticut legislators agreed to relax a series of work requirements for welfare recipients, to extend Medicaid benefits to teen-age children of the working poor and to offer Medicaid and family welfare benefits to legal immigrants who arrived here before the Federal welfare law was passed last August. But the lawmakers also voted to end welfare for single adults who are judged to be employable and to provide no transitional cash benefits to family welfare recipients who are cut off after 21 months because they have found work that pays more than their monthly grant. 22

BUSINESS DAY 32-45
 
Used Car Prices Are Falling
Used car prices fell 2 percent over the last 12 months, after rising for four years. The biggest reason may be that the growing popularity of used cars, due to greater confidence in them, has simply cooled off. But the rising number of cars coming off lease and the growing availability of used sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and other vehicles previously in short supply may have contributed. 1

Intel's Share Price Plunges
The value of Intel stock dropped 7.5 percent after the company announced that second-quarter profits would be lower than expected, largely because of weak demand for its Pentium processor chips. 33

Business Digest 33
 
SPORTS 26-31

ARTS 14-17, 20
 
OBITUARIES 10
 
EDITORIAL 18-19
 
Editorials: Mexico's obdurate ruling party, making workfare work, dinosaurs as they really were.
Columns: Russell Baker, Maureen Dowd.
 
Bridge 17
 
Crossword 12
 
Weather 16

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); PERU (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); PERU (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); POLAND (79%); FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COUPS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); COLD WAR (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RIOTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997



680 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Cut-Rate Fighter Jets Were Too Good to Be True

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
Call it a case of bargain-hunter's remorse.
Last year, Peru's generals scoured the discount market and found the perfect deal to turn the neighbors green with envy: not one, not two, but a dozen top-rated jet fighters for just $350 million. 
 Now they've begun taking delivery, but there's a problem. The planes may never be ready for combat, because it turns out that they come without a warranty or service contract.
The planes are Soviet-era MIG-29's, by far the most modern in Latin America, where the United States has long tried to forestall a high-tech arms race. They were bought not from Russia, where they were built, but from Belarus, which these days has to rely on the Russians to service its own air force. And the Russians, who would have liked to make the sale themselves, are simply refusing to service merchandise bought from a competitor.
The Peruvian generals have been deeply embarrassed by the comic-opera aspect of the affair, but in some ways it isn't funny at all.
Peru is a desperately underfinanced country where poverty is widespread, and the blunder highlights how its powerful military can override pressing domestic needs, even as it risks setting off an arms race that could heighten tensions and strain the budgets of Peru's equally impoverished neighbors.
For just those reasons, the United States has long refused to sell high-tech warplanes in Latin America -- although it is now reconsidering that stand, given the entry of former Soviet arms dealers into the competition.
So it was a surprise in Latin America when diplomats and military sources revealed how Peru, having engaged Belarus as an arms supplier, came to find that Russia, its big competitor next door, was doing its utmost to sour the deal.
Last week, Russia confirmed that it would not cooperate with servicing the aircraft, saying that was up to Belarus.
But military and diplomatic sources say that Belarus is in no position to provide service, and without technical support, upgrades and a reliable supply of spare parts from the manufacturer, the new squadron is unlikely to ever perform the complex combat missions for which it was designed.
"Buying those MIG-29's from Belarus was like buying a refrigerator at a rummage sale and then realizing after you get it home that not only is the warranty nontransferable but you can't even get spare parts," said a local military expert, who has close dealings with Peru's Air Force.
Peruvian government and military officials declined to comment on the MIG-29's, but they are said to be furious with Belarus for not securing a service commitment from the Russians before selling the aircraft.
Military analysts said that Belarus did not approach the Russians about maintaining the MIG-29's until after Peru had already received four of the combat planes. Belarus has reportedly halted shipments of the MIG-29's to Peru, which is seeking to cancel the deal unless Belarus persuades the Russians to provide technical support.
Embarrassment is not confined to Peru's generals. Critics of President Alberto K. Fujimori, who bought the planes as a reward to the military for successes in its war against terrorism, have accused him of squandering limited resources that could have been used to battle the extreme poverty that gave rise to the terrorist insurgency in the first place.
Mr. Fujimori's detractors point out that even at bargain-basement prices, the fighter planes cost Peru hundreds of millions of dollars when more than half of its 24 million people live below the poverty line, and 70 percent are unemployed or do not earn enough to buy basic necessities.
"There is no justification for this type of uncontrolled military spending," said a high-ranking Western diplomat based here. "Can you imagine how many schools, hospitals, roads and lunches $350 million would have paid for?"
Peru's turn to the former Soviet lands for high-tech weaponry has already become an arguing point for American business advocates who want the United States to end its ban on such sales in Latin America; they say that foreign competitors have been moving in on a potentially lucrative market. The Clinton Administration is considering lifting the ban as the region moves from military dictatorship to democracy, and it recently allowed a United States contractor to submit technical bids to supply Chile with F-16 aircraft.
American contractors argue that allowing them to sell advanced weapons to Latin America would give the United States leverage over what the arms are used for, since its suppliers would control maintenance, the industry officials said.
"The Peruvians have bought Soviet equipment in the past, so you'd think they would have learned their lesson that the Russians have a dismal track record when it comes to support," said Joel Johnson, vice president for the Aerospace Industries Association.
"If Peru only plans to use these airplanes for parades on national day, then they don't have a problem," Mr. Johnson added, "but if they plan to take them into battle, they will have to get some long-term maintenance."
But Sarah Walking, an analyst for the Arms Control Association, said that Peru's troubled MIG purchase shows that the United States has not been replaced as the preferred supplier of advanced weapons in Latin America, and that therefore the arms embargo should remain. Peru's difficulties "will make these countries think twice before rushing off to buy these weapons from suppliers who cannot guarantee their merchandise," Ms. Walking said.
Although Peru's MIG-29's appear to be grounded for the moment, United States analysts who assess the balance of power in the region said other Latin militaries are expected to seek comparable fighter planes to match Peru's presumed advantage. Both Chile, which has sparred with Peru in the past, and Brazil have expressed interest in buying United States fighter planes like the F-16, which is made by the Lockheed Martin Corporation.
When Peru announced the purchase of the MIG-29's six months ago, its neighbor, Ecuador, was outraged because Peru bought the combat planes just as the two countries began talks to resolve a border dispute that led to a brief war in the Amazon jungle two years ago. The Russian MIG-29 fighter performs air interception and air-to-ground missions that are not very useful in the kind of jungle wars that Peru has fought, military analysts say.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peru thought that a dozen MIG-29 fighter jets from Belarus were a bargain, but now finds itself unable to get service, repairs and parts. (Associated Press) (pg. 4)
 
Chart: "OVERVIEW: In the Andean Sky"
Combat aircraft in the air forces of Peru and some of its neighbors, not including Peru's new MIG's.

Peru	89	Argentina	202	Bolivia	48	Brazil	280	Chile	110	Colombia	74	Ecuador	52	
 
(Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); COLOMBIA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ECUADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; BELARUS; PERU; PERU (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); COLOMBIA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ECUADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; REPAIR SERVICES; GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); AIRLINES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997



681 of 681 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1997,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Russia Aide Cuts Ties to Harvard Center That Ousted Advisers

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 30

 BODY:
The architect of Russia's economic reform program, Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly B. Chubais, said today that he would stop working with the Harvard institute that had lent him its brightest economists to assist Russia's rocky transition to a market system.
The decision followed the dismissal of two consultants from the prestigious Harvard Institute for International Development. American officials accused the two men of misusing their positions for personal gain. Mr. Chubais had worked with the two men for years. 
 While Mr. Chubais was breaking ties with Harvard, he spoke highly of the two consultants. One of his allies said Russia intended to hire at least one of the consultants as an adviser, regardless of the accusations.
The two consultants were accused this month by the United States Agency for International Development, which financed the Harvard consulting programs, and Harvard then dismissed them.
But Mr. Chubais, who described the two advisers' work as "fantastically important," seemed to suggest that they -- and he -- were victims of a wider conspiracy.
"The investigation which was made upon the Harvard researchers had political roots," he said after a news conference today. "I guess those roots were produced by those in the United States who do not support the idea of Russia's radical reform. This is why I decided it is not convenient for me to do business with that kind of institute."
It was not immediately clear why Mr. Chubais referred to American opponents of economic reform, when most of the criticism directed at him and his policies is centered in Russia.
Mr. Chubais was probably choosing a popular scapegoat, Western interference, to protect the consultants and himself from further scrutiny at home from his Russian critics, of which he has many.
The office of the Agency for International Development in Washington confirmed today that Mr. Chubais worked for six weeks as a consultant for one of the A.I.D.-financed programs while he was out of government before the 1996 presidential elections. The agency was unable to provide details about Mr. Chubais's services or earnings.
There is nothing illegal or inappropriate in his earning money as a private consultant to a United States Government agency, but Mr. Chubais may find the relationship difficult to explain in Moscow's highly charged political atmosphere.
The Russian press has already raised questions about Mr. Chubais's sources of income when he was out of office, making charges of impropriety which he has rigorously denied. Questions have also been raised about the accounting practises of The Russian Privatization Center, which provided Mr. Chubais with expertise and several key advisers.
Mr. Chubais's warm words of support for the ousted American consultants and his sharp criticism of A.I.D. for what he described as the agency's unfair haste in accusing them of impropriety were clearly aimed at a domestic audience.
But his harsh words were a severe blow to Harvard, which had hoped to replace the consultants and continue its programs. It was also a slap at the United States Government, which has spent $43 million in funding for Harvard institute programs over the last several years.
Mr. Chubais's assessment was sharply contradicted in Washington. "As I see it, this is not related to Russian politics or American politics," said Richard Morningstar, a senior State Department official who is the coordinator for American assistance to the newly independent states. "This only involves the actions of two individuals."
The two individuals, Jonathan Hays, the program director of the Harvard institute in Moscow, and Harvard economics professor Andrei Shleifer, the project director, had been deeply involved in advising the Russian Government on privatization, securities markets and tax policy for several years.
Alerted to allegations of financial misconduct by the Moscow office of A.I.D., the agency's inspector general opened an investigation, and in preliminary findings, concluded that both men had violated conflict-of-interest rules. Mr. Hays was found to have invested in Russian government bonds. Professor Shleifer's wife, Nancy Zimmerman, who owned a private investment concern, received investment advice and support from her husband's office.
Both men denied any impropriety, and issued a statement saying the agency was "wrong in its conclusions, wrong in its assumptions, inaccurate in its facts and foolish in its rhetoric." Neither man could be reached today for comment.
A spokesman for one of Mr. Chubais's closest allies, Dmitry Vasilyev, chairman of the Federal Securities Commission, said the commission intended to hire Mr. Hays, as a consultant to the commission, which is the Russian stock market regulatory organization.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 1997, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about two consultants to the Russian Government from the Harvard Institute for International Development, who were dismissed by Harvard, misstated the surname of one of the consultants. He is Jonathan Hay, not Hays.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID); HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID); HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); TRENDS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); 

PERSON: CHUBAIS, ANATOLY B; STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; HAYS, JONATHAN; SCHLEIFER, ANDREI (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1997

 
