

1 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: A New Front Line in the U.S. Drug War

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE, CHARLIE SAVAGE and THOM SHANKER; Charlie Savage reported from Washington; Damien Cave from Ahuas, Honduras, and Mexico City; and Thom Shanker from Forward Operating Base Mocoron, Honduras, and Washington. William Neuman contributed reporting from Cartagena, Colombia.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After several villagers were killed on a Honduran river last month during a raid on drug smugglers by Honduran and American agents, a local backlash raised concerns that the United States' expanding counternarcotics efforts in Central America might be going too far. But United States officials in charge of that policy see it differently.
Throughout 2011, counternarcotics officials watched their radar screens almost helplessly as more than 100 small planes flew from South America to isolated landing strips in Honduras. But after establishing a new strategy emphasizing more cooperation across various United States departments and agencies, two smugglers' flights were intercepted within a single week in May, a development that explains why American officials say they are determined to press forward with the approach.
''In the first four months of this year, I'd say we actually have gotten it together across the military, law enforcement and developmental communities,'' said William R. Brownfield, the assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement affairs. ''My guess is narcotics traffickers are hitting the pause button. For the first time in a decade, air shipments are being intercepted immediately upon landing.'' 
With Washington's attention swinging from Iraq and Afghanistan -- and with budget dollars similarly flowing in new directions -- the United States is expanding and unifying its antidrug efforts in Central America, where violence has skyrocketed as enforcement efforts in the Caribbean, Colombia and Mexico have pushed cocaine traffic to smaller countries with weaker security forces.
As part of those efforts, the United States is pressing governments across Central America to work together against their shared threat -- sharing intelligence and even allowing security forces from one nation to operate on the sovereign soil of another -- an approach that was on display in the disputed raid. But reviews from Central America include uncertainty and skepticism.
Government leaders in Honduras, who came to power in a controversial election a few months after a 2009 coup, have strongly supported assistance from the United States, but skeptics contend that enthusiasm is in part because the partnership bolsters their fragile hold on power.
More broadly, there is discontent in Latin America with United States efforts that some leaders and independent experts see as too focused on dramatic seizures of shipments bound for North America rather than local drug-related murders, corruption and chaos.
''Violence has grown a lot; crimes connected to trafficking keep increasing -- that's Central America's big complaint,'' President Otto Perez Molina of Guatemala said in an interview. He added that the drug cartels were better organized than they were 20 years ago and that ''if there are no innovations, if we don't see something truly different than what we have been doing, then this war is on the road to defeat.''
Mr. Perez Molina, a former general, has been criticized by American officials for proposing a form of drug legalization, but he argues that his goal is to create discussion of new ideas: like compensating Central American countries for the drugs they confiscate, or creating a regional court for organized crime.
In the area of Honduras called the Mosquito Coast, where the two recent operations occurred, residents have simpler demands. ''If you're going to come to the Mosquito Coast, come to invest,'' said Terry Martinez, the director of development programs for the area. ''Help us get our legitimate goods to market. That will help secure the area.''
American officials say they know that interdiction alone is not enough. The number of United States officials assigned to programs that are designed to strengthen Central America's weak criminal justice systems has quadrupled, to about 80 over the past five years.
And the United States Agency for International Development has, since 2009, helped open more than 70 outreach centers for young people, offering job training and places to go after school, officials report.
''If your drug policy is an exclusively 'hard side' negative policy, it will not succeed,'' said Mr. Brownfield, a former ambassador to Colombia. ''There has to be a positive side: providing alternative economic livelihoods, clinics, roads -- the sorts of things that actually give poor communities a stake in their future so they do not participate in narcotics trafficking.''
Despite the shift that officials described, federal budgets and performance measures outlined in government documents show that the priorities of the drug war have not significantly changed. Even as cocaine consumption in the United States has fallen, the government's antidrug efforts abroad continue to be heavily weighted toward seizing cocaine.
Most financing for the Central American Regional Security Initiative has gone to security and interdiction work, according to a recent Congressional report.
''The problem is that the budget doesn't match the rhetoric,'' said John Carnevale, who served as the director of planning, budget and research for the Office of National Drug Control Policy from 1989 to 2000. ''The budget that is currently being funded for drug control is still very much like the one we've had for 10 or 12 years, or really over the past couple of decades.''
American officials counter that interdiction efforts include programs to increase the professionalism of local police units. And increasingly, Central American governments are helping to train one another's forces, using common equipment, and sharing counternarcotics intelligence. United States agencies are also combining their efforts in new ways. Officials say the May 11 raid near the town of Ahuas -- and another one earlier in May in Honduras, during which there was also a firefight but no one is believed to have been killed -- illustrated that joint effort.
The May 11 raid started with Colombian intelligence passing along a tip about the plane to a joint intelligence task force under the American military's Southern Command, which has its headquarters in Miami.
A surveillance aircraft from the United States Customs and Border Protection agency then tracked the plane as it landed, leading to a raid that was carried out by four State Department helicopters. They flew out of one of three new forward operating bases built this year by the American military's Joint Task Force-Bravo in Honduras.
Guatemalan pilots flew the aircraft -- after overcoming some resistance from Honduran officials -- because Honduras lacks qualified pilots. The helicopters carried a strike force of Honduran police officers who had been specially vetted and trained by United States Drug Enforcement Administration agents, several of whom are part of a special commando-style squad that was on board as advisers.
The helicopters struck around 2 a.m., after about 30 men had unloaded 17 bales of cocaine from the plane into a pickup truck, which had carried it to a boat in the nearby Patuca River. Men working on the boat scattered as the helicopters swooped down, and a ground force moved in.
What happened next remains under investigation in Honduras. Officials say a second boat approached and opened fire on the agents on the ground. They and a door gunner aboard the helicopter returned fire in a quick burst.
But rather than hitting drug traffickers, villagers contend, the government forces instead hit another boat that was returning from a long trip upriver -- killing four unarmed people, including two pregnant women. While the D.E.A.'s rules of engagement allowed agents to fire back to protect themselves and their counterparts, both United States and Honduran officials insist that no Americans fired.
Broader questions remain. Even if the air route to Honduras is shut down, as long as the United States -- and, increasingly, Africa and Europe -- remains a lucrative market for cocaine, traffickers will continue to seek a way to move their product.
United States officials say they are already bolstering efforts in the Caribbean, anticipating another shift in direction for drugs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE MOSQUITO COAST: Honduran Navy officers on patrol in Ahuas, Honduras, near where four people were killed in an antidrug operation on May 11. Honduras has strongly supported the United States' policy. Below, holes dug by the Honduran Army are intended to disable a clandestine airstrip used by drug traffickers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4)
 A United States Air Force pilot in a preflight inspection at Soto Cano Air Base in Honduras. Two smugglers' flights were intercepted in a single week last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) CHART: Using Dollars to Combat Drug Smugglers: With Washington's attention -- and dollars -- swinging from Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States is expanding and unifying its antidrug efforts in Central America, where it finances interdiction efforts, has attempted to strengthen weak criminal justice systems and offers job training for young people to keep them out of the drug trade. (Source: Office of National Drug Control Policy) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COUPS (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); MURDER (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); AIR FREIGHT (76%); BUDGETS (75%); COCAINE (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CARTELS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); HONDURAS (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



2 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Liaisons Are Restored To Outpost In Pakistan

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a small step toward repairing the badly frayed relations between the United States and Pakistan, two American military officers have quietly returned as liaisons to a major Pakistani Army headquarters in Peshawar, the gateway to the country's restive tribal areas, American officials said Thursday.
The officers, whose job is to keep NATO and Pakistan informed about each other's military missions, were forced to leave their posts at the headquarters last November after an American airstrike mistakenly killed 24 Pakistani soldiers. 
The redeployment of the officers in recent days, first to the United States Consulate in Peshawar and then, with the approval of the Pakistani military, to the 11th Corps headquarters, seems to have resulted from efforts in recent weeks between top American, Pakistani and Afghan military officers to improve border coordination and lessen the chance of deadly accidents like the November airstrike.
''The whole purpose is to increase and improve communication between the two militaries along that border,'' a Pentagon spokesman, Capt. John Kirby, told reporters on Thursday.
Still, it is a far cry from the nearly 300 American military trainers and other personnel operating in Pakistan just a few years ago. The last of about 125 Special Forces trainers, who advised scores of Pakistani Frontier Corps paramilitary soldiers in different locations, left Pakistan a year ago when tensions between the two countries spiked following the Navy SEAL raid that killed Osama bin Laden.
Reuters reported Wednesday that fewer than 10 American Special Operations soldiers had been sent to a site near Peshawar to train paramilitary troops. But two American officials said Thursday that the deployment, at least for now, was less ambitious and involved two regular military officers, not Special Operations soldiers, serving as liaisons and not trainers.
The mini-deployment comes as American and Pakistani negotiators are finishing a fifth week of fruitless talks in Islamabad in an attempt to work out details of reopening NATO supply lines that flow through Pakistan into Afghanistan. ''I wouldn't categorize this as a positive sign for progress on broader issues; that's way too much wishful thinking,'' said one senior American military official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue.
Against this backdrop, underscoring the rancorous, uneasy alliance that is central to the Obama administration's plan to end the war in Afghanistan, the American diplomatic leadership in both Pakistan and Afghanistan is changing this summer.
Two American officials said this week that the administration was expected to name Richard G. Olson as the new ambassador to Pakistan, replacing Cameron P. Munter, who is leaving this summer after two years on the job. Mr. Olson is an assistant ambassador at the American Embassy in Kabul, responsible for economic affairs and development.
The State Department said last week that Ryan C. Crocker, the United States ambassador in Kabul, would leave his post this summer for unspecified health reasons after serving there less than a year. A leading candidate to succeed him is James B. Cunningham, the deputy envoy in Kabul and a former United States ambassador to Israel, American officials said.
The supply routes are hardly the only immediate strain in the relationship. After a brief lull heading into last week's NATO summit meeting in Chicago, the C.I.A. resumed drone strikes against what it thought to be insurgent hide-outs in northwestern Pakistan, defying demands by Pakistan's Parliament to end the strikes altogether.
And last week, a tribal court in Pakistan convicted a doctor who helped the C.I.A. in the search for Bin Laden, sentencing him to 33 years in prison. The next day the Senate approved a new $33 million cut in American military assistance to Pakistan, $1 million for each year of his sentence.
The case took an unusual twist on Wednesday, when tribal court documents showed that the doctor, Shakil Afridi, was charged not with treason, as originally believed, but with colluding with a local Islamist warlord, to whom he was accused of donating more than $20,000. Dr. Afridi's friends and relatives say he paid a fine to the group Lashkar-i-Islam after its fighters kidnapped him. The militant group on Thursday denied any ties to the doctor, Reuters reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (75%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); US NAVY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



3 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and European Union Agree on Air Cargo Security

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
PARIS -- The United States and the European Union were expected Friday to announce an agreement to recognize each other's air cargo security regimes, putting an end to a costly duplication of security controls on the more than $130 billion in air freight that crosses the Atlantic from Europe each year.
Under the terms of the accord, which was to take effect immediately, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration will fully accept a set of E.U. rules that holds all airlines and freight shippers flying cargo and mail into, or transiting via, the Union to a strict set of obligations on the screening of consignments and on the maintenance of a secure supply chain.
Previously, only five of the 27 member states in the Union -- Britain, Finland, France, the Netherlands and Ireland -- had signed bilateral air cargo security agreements with the United States. 
''Air freight is by definition naturally urgent,'' Siim Kallas, the European transport commissioner, said in a statement. ''Cutting out the duplication of security procedures will mean huge savings for cargo operators in terms of time and money.''
The debate over how best to screen air cargo for the presence of explosives or other threats dates back to the terrorist attacks against the United States on Sept. 11, 2001. While many U.S. politicians have pushed for physical inspection of every parcel and pallet that enters an aircraft cargo hold -- just as pat-downs and body scans are required for all passengers -- the global air freight industry has argued that such an approach risks paralyzing a business that represents some 40 percent of the value of global trade.
Both the United States and the Union sharply stepped up their cargo security measures in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, but the two sides adopted different approaches.
The U.S. Transportation Security Administration imposed strict protocols at the last point of departure to the United States -- regardless of whether the cargo had been previously screened in another country -- and required air carriers to guarantee that the cargo had been screened according to T.S.A. standards. The European approach has focused on ensuring that cargo, once it has been screened at its point of origin, cannot be tampered with at any point along its route.
In practice, this required air carriers and shipping agents to physically separate cargo bound for the United States in airport warehouses for special processing involving not only duplicate sets of paperwork, but also often a requirement that parcels be scanned by two sets of very similar X-ray equipment in order to comply with the technical standards of both regimes. In most cases, the additional compliance costs were passed on to customers in the form of higher shipping rates. The additional handling procedures also slowed down shipping times.
The divergence in approach also created expensive headaches after October 2010, when terrorists in Yemen used United Parcel Service and FedEx to try to ship hidden explosives to the United States. The parcels were intercepted at airport cargo terminals in Britain and Germany.
After that incident, the Union added enhanced screening requirements for all cargo originating in third countries but continued to apply a ''one-stop'' screening policy to those goods. The T.S.A., however, did not accept this approach as equivalent to its own, and airlines were faced with a barrage of emergency amendments to U.S. procedures. No fewer than 25 such amendments have been issued in the past 18 months, airline industry executives said.
''Carriers were forced to either comply -- sometimes on very short notice -- or to come up with an alternative procedure,'' said Margreet Lommerts, manager for security and cargo at the Association of European Airlines in Brussels. ''It was extremely complicated. And if one airline's procedure was accepted, it was difficult for others to say that they couldn't apply it as well.''
Mutual recognition is expected to reduce costs and improve the speed and efficiency of trans-Atlantic shipments of goods ranging from electronic components to perishable foods and medicines.
Of the top 20 countries that fly cargo destined for the United States, six are in the European Union. More than a million metric tons a year of air cargo travels each way across the Atlantic, with the value of goods flying from the Union to the United States alone worth more than 107 billion, or $134 billion.
The European Commission estimated that the cost of complying with security measures could represent 1 percent to 4 percent of an airline's revenue.
Eliminating duplicate security measures for trans-Atlantic cargo could shave up to 20 percent from those costs, it said.
The agreement follows the announcement in mid-May that the T.S.A. had set a firm deadline of Dec. 3 for airlines to conduct ''100 percent'' screening for explosives of all cargo carried on U.S.-bound passenger flights. The mandate -- part of a 2007 federal law that already applies to cargo loaded onto U.S. domestic flights and to planes leaving the United States -- requires all passenger airlines to break down consolidated shipments and pallets to screen individual parcels before they are loaded onto U.S.-bound flights.
According to the T.S.A., more than 80 percent of cargo on international passenger flights into the United States is currently screened, up from around 65 percent two years ago.
Helen Kearns, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kallas, the European transport commissioner, confirmed that the mutual recognition agreement ''means that compliance with E.U. security rules also meets the U.S. requirement of 100 percent screening of air cargo.'' A T.S.A. spokesman in Washington declined to comment.
The agreement is one of several that the T.S.A. is negotiating with major trading partners ahead of the Dec. 3 deadline, cargo industry executives said. The agency has so far declined to name the other countries involved, but Brandon Fried, executive director of the Airforwarders Association, an industry trade group in Washington, said he had been told that roughly 20 such accords were ''in the pipeline at various stages'' which in total represented 80 percent of the cargo coming into the United States.
European airlines said the harmonization of trans-Atlantic security controls would go some way toward easing the pressure on their cargo operations, which have struggled over the past two years amid a slackening in consumer spending in North America and Europe.
Globally, air freight traffic is expected to grow by around 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year, down from a 4 percent clip in 2011 and 10.4 percent in 2010, according to the International Air Transport Association, a Geneva-based group that represents some 240 airlines worldwide. That compares with expected growth of between 2 percent and 2.5 percent for European carriers, down from 6.7 percent in 2011.
''The industry is facing challenges in current economic environment, so any relief in our regulatory burden is really to be applauded,'' said Ms. Lommerts of the airline association. ''Any additional security measures only frustrate the process.''
''This is not about reducing security checks,'' she added. ''It is about trusting each other. There will continue to be oversight by both regulators. It is just a matter of avoiding administrative burdens that are not neccessary.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); TERRORISM (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (64%)

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (91%); FINLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



4 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: Visiting The Suburbs Without The Drive

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
AS a native of suburbia, I have a soft spot for its ethos: the arena rock and shopping malls, the chain stores and competitive lawn care. But when I moved to New York City, I did so because I wanted to do all the things that New Yorkers do. Lately, though, I noticed something odd happening around Manhattan: The suburbs are seeping in.
It's not just in Times Square, where catering to -- and gouging -- homesick tourists is a time-honored tradition. The 'burbs seem to be everywhere, from miniature golf in the Village to batting cages on the Upper West Side. There's table tennis off Park Avenue South, an Applebee's in Harlem and highway-style hotels like the Comfort Inn on the Lower East Side. Multiplexes are more common than art houses, and don't even try to avoid trivia nights. If not for all the big buildings and honking, you could easily mistake Manhattan for Mahwah on some nights.
So what's going on here? Wasn't the point of living in the city to do, you know, city stuff? Going to museums and seeing Broadway plays and eating at fancy restaurants? 
There could be a demographic explanation: The city is always being restocked by people like me from less urbane environments, and we bring our cultural traditions, just as immigrants to New York have for generations.
Every few years seems to bring another trend -- dodge ball, kickball, paintball -- bred from a yearning for kitschy, nerdy cool and comfort food for the formerly suburban soul. Still, mini golf? Of course children might be behind this; most of the activities can be mastered by any fairly coordinated first grader, but many are actually geared toward adults (or idea-starved parents).
And the fun does not come cheap. I discovered that you can spend $50 a half-hour at an uptown batting cage, while a quick trip to SPiN New York, the subterranean table tennis center on East 23rd Street, set me back more than twice that. (Cocktails, mind you, were included.)
The weirdness is even more acute when you consider that these are among the very same activities that New Yorkers will travel out of town to enjoy. The thought seems to be, hey, why make the trip to your summer home -- and the grueling Friday night commute -- when you can get your suburban fix without crossing a bridge or enduring a tunnel?
It's true that some of these suburban-style entertainments have always been around. Bowling, for example, is a city staple, despite being impossibly uncool. (Nor are these diversions limited to Manhattan; a new restaurant called Brooklyn Crab, opening in Red Hook in June, is promising table tennis and miniature golf, not to mention beanbag toss and bocce.)
Still, I was intrigued. Was Manhattan going soft? Was the suburban vibe hip now? Or maybe it was just that constant, and undoubtedly urban, need for something new to do.
With my journalistic mission clear, I recently set out to sample the city's suburban pleasures, accompanied for much of the tour by my 7-year-old son, Jake. And it began, as all suburban weekends should, at the mall.
During my high school days in the late 1980s, Friday night at the mall was a sacred ritual, as scores of bored teenagers descended to check out the latest action flick and play video games. The Manhattan Mall on Herald Square, though, has no movie theater, food court or arcade. Therefore, in my humble opinion, it is not much of a mall.
Yet when I dropped by on a recent Friday, there it was: the unmistakable aroma of recycled air and retail, as a steady stream of patrons made their way to old reliables like Foot Locker, Victoria's Secret and J. C. Penney. A few young couples canoodled, and I fondly remembered not being able to get a date in high school. So I moved on.
Jake's knowledge of trivia is still elementary, so I decided to take in trivia night alone. Once a marketing maneuver used by underappreciated bars, trivia has invaded watering holes citywide. I found a Friday night match at Blondies, a sports bar on West 79th Street, where I met Ed Nescot and his team of trivia buddies.
Mr. Nescot, a 32-year-old videographer, said his posse had made Fridays their official man night for the last year, usually leaving their wives and girlfriends to their own devices.
''We suggested maybe they could come challenge us,'' said Sam Carner, a teammate. ''But then we realized that would end badly for everybody.''
On this night Mr. Nescot's team nailed most of the answers, while I, playing solo, did not. (Honestly, who knew Alex Karras was a star of ''Webster''?) But my question to them -- ''Why play trivia on a Friday night in the most exciting city in the world?'' -- was met with perplexed looks.
''What does anyone else do on a Friday night?'' said Mr. Nescot, who grew up in suburban Lancaster County, Pa. ''You're still hanging out with friends, catching up on the week.''
Besides, said Andrew Schmertz, another team member, they're good at it.
''We dominate,'' he said.
While chains like Holiday Inn and Days Inn have opened outlets in Manhattan, there are few names in the English language that say, ''I don't care where I sleep, so long as it's cheap'' more than Econo Lodge. Our room, on West 47th Street, had exactly eight inches of space between the end of the bed and the wall. Beyond that, there wasn't much to report: a bathroom, a cantilevered TV and, oddly, a small bag of Fritos, apparently the Econo version of a mint on the pillow.
That wasn't enough to sustain us, so the next morning Jake and I headed to Chevys, on West 42nd Street, whose cookie-cutter interiors -- Christmas lights, less-than-antique antiques, mass-produced mementos -- are supposed to suggest that funky Mexican place you used to go to in college. And, sure enough, the restaurant has been advertising ''authentic tequila shooters, just like the ones you can't remember from Spring Break '93.''
Oof, I thought. I'm even too old for Chevys.
Heading downtown, we took a minivan cab -- the ultimate suburban vehicle -- to the Greenwich Village Country Club, which is neither really country club nor in the heart of Greenwich Village, given that it's just south of Union Square. Even so, the draw was powerful: a mini mini golf course, complete with contoured greens and goofy, animal-inspired obstacles.
On this particular Saturday afternoon Jake and I were the only people on the course. Which was probably a good thing. Jake's early shots hit a wall, a rock and a statue of a black panther (the cat, not Huey P. Newton).
''What did you get?'' I asked when he eventually sank his putt on one hole. ''An 8?''
''Yeah,'' Jake said. ''Probably. I think.''
I gave him a 6. After all, I scored a 6 too.
Jake bowed out of the evening's entertainment. SPiN New York is more like a nightclub than like a rec room. Opened in 2009, SPiN is often populated by young women in short dresses and the young men attracted by such young women. Table tennis might be played at SPiN, but dating seems to be the game.
Early on, though, the scene was more ho-hum than hipster. There was a birthday party, with finger foods and funny hats, at one end of the room. My opponent that night was an old friend, Anthony, who was apparently raised with a Ping-Pong table in his home but with no sense of mercy. After winning seven straight games, he asked me, ''You want to continue this process?''
I did not. I packed up my paddle and went home.
After another Econo-night and some Sunday brunch at Applebee's, Jake and I took in a movie at a multiplex -- on an IMAX screen, natch -- before heading to our final event: the batting cage at the Baseball Center NYC on West 74th Street. At this point I'm just thankful that it's not a competitive sport.
The slowest machine throws 45 miles per hour, which proved to be just about right for Jake. Then it was my turn: I fouled a few off before making solid contact. I hit the next one too. And the next. Suddenly I was living my Little League days all over again, which brought me to another theory: Maybe the suburban craze is just a happy case of nostalgia for those days that for many of us were all play, no work.
Looking over, I noticed that Jake was lying down, apparently exhausted from the weekend. I too was fatigued from all this suburban action in the city.
So Jake and I hopped in a cab -- another minivan -- and watched the beauties of Lincoln Center and other more traditional city attractions fly by. All of which inspired another thought. What was the nicest part of doing suburban stuff in the city?
Not having to drive yourself back home.
No Need to Shout 'Fore!' In addition to the spots I visited, backyard activities like Wiffle ball and backwoods varieties like hiking can figure into the suburban urban experience. And then there is golf, perhaps the most suburban sport imaginable. The miniature version is easy to find -- in the Village, on Pier 25, on Randalls Island -- but at least one city establishment offers a chance to play 18 holes without leaving Manhattan. Sort of. Golf Manhattan, at 122 East 25th Street, provides a variety of golf simulations: You can hit toward projected vistas of famed courses like Pebble Beach and St. Andrews with real woods and irons. And while you won't feel the sun in your face or the wind at your back, you probably won't lose any balls either. For those looking for a more outdoorsy afternoon, Web sites like Trails.com list plenty of city hikes, including the sixmile Battery Park to Riverside Park route, described as a ''combination cycling, hiking and in-line skating path.'' (Ah, nature!) Along the way you'll pass Chelsea Piers, home to suburban staples like batting cages and driving ranges. Users seem to give the hike a thumbs up, with one commenter on the site noting that it was ''way faster than a cab.'' That said, a hike can be a seriously solitary experience, even along the West Side Highway. For the more social suburban experience of team sports, it doesn't get much goofier than Wiffle ball. ZogSports offers two summer leagues with games at fields around the city, complete with plastic bats, aerated balls and an opportunity to mingle. (Games are coed.) Those seeking a different kind of suburban high can take trampoline classes at the Trapeze School New York, at 518 West 30th Street. It's not quite like bouncing around in your backyard; beginners' classes have a more fitnessminded approach, bent on building core strength and ''proprioceptive and kinesthetic awareness,'' a fancy way to say knowing where you are. Which, of course, is in the heart of a big, urban environment, doing something suspiciously suburban. JESSE McKINLEY A sampling of urban suburban spots: MINIATURE GOLF Brooklyn Crab, opening in June at 24 Reed Street, Red Hook, brooklyncrab.com; Greenwich Village Country Club, 110 University Place, at 12th Street, greenwichvillagecountryclub .com; Pier 25, North Moore Street at West Street, TriBeCa, pier25 .com/mini-golf; Randalls Island Golf and Sports, 1 Randalls Island, randallsislandgolfcenter.com. TABLE TENNIS SPiN New York, 48 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, spinyc.com. BATTING CAGES The Baseball Center NYC, 202 West 74th Street, at Amsterdam Avenue, thebaseballcenternyc.com; The Field House at Chelsea Piers, Pier 60, 23rd Street and the Hudson River, chelseapiers.com/fh/batting-cages.cfm. TRIVIA Blondies Sports, 212 West 79th Street, Manhattan, blondiessports.com. Fridays at 8:30 p.m.; for other trivia sites: nyctrivia.blogspot.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oh, the places you'll go: above, from left, Andy Kutruff, Neil Mesauskis and Diego Mayer-Cantu playing miniature golf at Greenwich Village Country Club
left, the Manhattan Mall
below right, Alexa Mendel at bat at the Baseball Center NYC
below left, the scene outside Chevys in Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C29) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ELWOOD SMITH) (C21
 C29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SUBURBS (90%); GOLF (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); THEATER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



5 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Data Suggests Tepid Outlook Ahead of Jobs Report

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Private payroll growth accelerated only slightly in May and claims for jobless benefits rose last week, suggesting the recovery in the nation's labor market was stalling after a strong performance early in the year. 
Other data on Thursday showed factory activity in the Midwest slowed considerably in May, and economic growth in the first quarter was a bit softer than initially estimated.
Economists said the reports reflected anxiety amid an uncertain global economic outlook as the euro zone's debt crisis escalates and China's economy slows.
''The economy is growing at an anemic pace, and the job market is showing some signs of hesitation in the pace of hiring,'' said Paul Edelstein, an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. ''There is a lot to worry about.''
Private employers created 133,000 jobs in May, the payrolls processor ADP said. That was only a slight step up from April's tepid increase of 113,000 and below economists' expectations for a gain of 148,000.
The report comes ahead of the government's closely watched May employment report on Friday, which is expected to show nonfarm payrolls up from a paltry 115,000 in April to about 150,000.
The recent cooling in the labor market has been largely viewed as payback for strong gains during the winter, when unusually warm weather spurred economic activity. But economists are starting to worry that the troubles in Europe and an uncertain fiscal outlook at home are now dampening the recovery.
Initial claims for state jobless benefits rose 10,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 383,000, a Labor Department report showed. Claims have now risen in seven of the last eight weeks.
Another report showed the number of planned layoffs at companies in the United States hit an eight-month high.
Joel Prakken, chairman of the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers, which helps produce the ADP report, said the soft private-sector payroll gains of the past two months at least partly reflected the unusual weather patterns, but he said they also raised a red flag about fundamental weakness.
''Today's number both confirms and reinforces the deceleration of employment that we saw last month,'' he said. ''While the deceleration is disappointing, it's hardly surprising, given the tepid macroeconomic data we have seen reported over the last several months.''
A report from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago found factory activity in the Midwest lost steam in May. The group said its business barometer fell to 52.7, the lowest since September 2009, from 56.2 in April. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy.
Other regional surveys of factory activity also have found activity slowing, suggesting the manufacturing sector was losing a step nationally. The Institute for Supply Management will release a report on national factory activity for May on Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); EURO CRISIS (70%); WEATHER (70%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



6 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Reader Reaction to Mayor's Proposal

 BODY:
Richard Ruble
Siloam Springs, Ark.
Three cheers for the mayor. ... All the arguments against the mayor's proposal are flat: this policy doesn't restrict soda drinking; it just makes it more costly and inconvenient. And why shouldn't it? Those who aren't overweight are already paying higher insurance premiums for the expansive. People know what's best for them! Ha! We may know, but we don't always do. 
R. Reynolds
Staten Island
Excessive taxing of the lower classes is in essence what Michael Bloomberg is trying to do. New Yorkers should be outraged by such efforts. Once again the poor, working and middle classes must pay for the economic shortcomings of the City of New York.
Lois
Sunnyside, Queens
There's as much sugar in fruit juices as in soda. Why is soda being singled out? You should tax them both.
For more reader comments, go to nytimes.com/nyregion.
Paul Waldner
Bad Homburg, Germany
We are free Americans living in a market economy. How can a political leader who got rich in our system even begin to contemplate regulating the size of the container from which we consume? There are a thousand other ways to promote healthier lifestyles for New Yorkers without considering something so silly!

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (56%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



7 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Segmentation Century

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In 1949, Reinhold Niebuhr published a book called ''Faith and History.'' Niebuhr noticed a secular religion that was especially strong in the years after World War II. It was the faith that historical forces were gradually bringing about ''the unification of mankind.''
Old nationalisms would fade away, many people believed. Transportation and communications technologies would unite people. Values would converge. 
This optimistic faith was at the heart of many postwar projects, first the United Nations and then the European Union. The idea was to create multilateral bodies that would hasten the process of convergence, harmonization and peace.
Unfortunately, this moral, cultural and political convergence never happened. In the decades since, people in different nations, even people within nations, have become less alike in at least as many ways as they have become more alike.
The United States is a single nation with a common history, a common currency and a strong identity. Yet the country has become more polarized, not less. The country has become more difficult to govern, not less.
As communications technology has become more global, people's tastes have become more parochial, not less. Ethan Zuckerman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology notes in The Wilson Quarterly that 95 percent of news consumed by American Internet users is published within the United States, and people in many other countries consume even less foreign news than we do.
The failure of convergence is most striking in Europe. True, a tiny sliver of European society is becoming more transnational. But only 2 percent of Europeans live in a different European nation than their country of citizenship.
On the whole, European nations still have very different understandings of the rule of law and political order, different work ethics and conceptions of citizenship. If you look at the European Values Study, for example, you see stark values differences across the Continent.
Less than 40 percent of Danes believe that work is a ''very important'' part of their lives, compared with roughly 65 percent of the French. More than 80 percent of the Croats believe that a parent's duty is to do what's best for their children, even at the expense of their own well-being. Only about 55 percent of Germans agree.
The world feels different depending on what nation you're in. According to Pew Research surveys, 73 percent of Germans think that economic conditions are good right now. In France, 19 percent think that, and in Spain it's 6 percent.
If you look at the World Values Survey, you see that people in most Western nations are becoming more distrustful of their neighbors, not less. There are huge variations across nations, but levels of social and political trust have been declining almost everywhere except the Nordic countries. If there's convergence, in other words, it's in our increasing agreement that we don't trust each other.
Today's European economic crisis grows directly out of this segmentation. The euro crisis is not a crisis of debt. Total European debt levels are not that high. It's a crisis of legitimacy. Debt burdens are divergent across nations, and Europeans with one set of habits and values do not want to bail out Europeans with other habits and values.
The fathers of the European project believed monetary union would bring people together. But when you jam nations with diverging values together, you only end up propelling them apart.
So we face the likelihood that the euro will crack up. This is not an outcome to be desired. The ensuing recession and chaos could be horrible on both sides of the Atlantic. But we should prepare for a crackup because the underlying sense of shared identity required for the euro's survival is not there.
Regular Europeans are losing faith in the European project. Most Europeans now believe integration has harmed their economies. In all countries except Italy, majorities oppose giving Brussels more budgetary sovereignty, according to Pew Research surveys. The most popular major European politician is Angela Merkel, who is holding tough on more bailouts. She has 80 percent approval in Germany, 66 percent approval in Britain and 76 percent approval in France.
Europe continues to suffer from the same problem that has plagued it for the past half-millennium. There are too many nations in too small a space. There are no historical trends or technocratic schemes that are altering that basic flaw.
The larger issue is, how will the world cope with its own segmentation? How do you govern amid divergence? If multilateral organizations can't bind nations, do we simply resort to an era of regional hegemons -- or chaos?
The first step, surely, is abandoning the illusions of convergence and the schemes based upon them. In 1949, Niebuhr questioned the naive belief that history drives toward unity. He cited the book of Psalms: ''He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (68%); CURRENCIES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (72%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



8 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM AFRICA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Status Quo Between 2 Sudans Is Not Quite War, Not Quite Peace

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- For the first time in months, after killing scores if not hundreds of each other's men, Sudan and South Sudan are back at the negotiating table, wrangled into peace talks by an increasingly worried international coalition, including the United States and China, that was terrified that the two countries were on the brink of a cataclysmic war.
It was less than two months ago that Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, ridiculed South Sudan's government in Juba as a measly ''insect'' that needed to be swatted away. Since then, the two sides have announced that they pulled out of Abyei, a disputed area. On Thursday, Barnaba Marial Benjamin, South Sudan's information minister, said the negotiations, taking place in Ethiopia, were ''going well.''
Guns flashing one day. Smiles the next. Sudan analysts say that is simply how it is going to be with these two feuding neighbors. Though Sudan and South Sudan may never descend to a full-fledged war, partly because of all the international attention, they will probably never achieve full-fledged peace either. 
''I do not see things improving much and basically think that the current style of destructive but low-level violence will be the order of the day,'' said John O. Voll, a professor of Islamic history at Georgetown University and a longtime Sudan specialist.
Mr. Bashir recently offered a similar assessment, saying, ''If they want to change the regime in Khartoum, we will work to change the regime in Juba.'' He added, ''And if they want to support our rebels, we will support theirs.''
The tensions run deep. Guerrilla fighters in what is now South Sudan, which is mostly Christian and animist and culturally more akin to sub-Saharan Africa, fought for decades against the Arab-dominated leaders in Khartoum, Sudan's capital. Last July, South Sudan officially broke off from Sudan and became the world's newest country. People celebrated for days.
But the euphoria did not last. There were too many unresolved issues, and Sudan and South Sudan soon began squabbling bitterly over how to demarcate the border and share oil profits. (The conundrum of the two Sudans is that while most of the oil is in the south, the pipeline runs through the north.)
Complicating things even further was a fierce rebellion in the Nuba Mountains, which lie just across the border in Sudan. The Nuban fighters had been close allies of the southern rebels, and there was evidence that South Sudan's new government was covertly supplying the Nubans with money, tanks and militia fighters. At the same time, Khartoum seemed to be covertly arming ethnic militias in the south that had killed thousands in the past few years, making a mockery of the South Sudanese security forces.
In January, South Sudan cut off oil production, a measure aimed at Khartoum that also hurt at home. The southern government gets 98 percent of its revenue from oil sales and may soon run out of cash to pay its army, a situation everyone agrees is a time bomb. In April, vicious north-south fighting broke out along the border. Despite Mr. Bashir's boast that he had ''fertilized the soil with their dead,'' South Sudan surprised many by seizing Heglig, one of the last oil fields Sudan still has. It seemed that all the internal stress and divisions in the north, including the continuing insurgency in the Darfur region, were finally catching up with Sudan and that its army was not what it once was.
Mr. Bashir has many headaches, including soaring inflation, urban protests and his own status as an international pariah. Sudan has struggled under tough economic sanctions for years, and Mr. Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges for the massacres in Darfur. Analysts fear that a war would be just the lifeline he needs, and that his country would rally behind him. The same may be true for Salva Kiir, South Sudan's president, who also faces rising discontent and sharpening ethnic divisions in his new nation.
''Both sides have an interest in war,'' said Mariam al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, a leading opposition politician in Khartoum. ''It's a way out for them, from internal problems they can't handle.''
The last major conflict between the two sides, from the 1980s until the early 2000s, was a disaster, with more than two million people killed. Hundreds of thousands of starving refugees fled the fighting, including the so-called Lost Boys, orphaned children who trudged hundreds of miles across jungles and savannas, dodging bombers and lions.
The specter of a relapse into this carnage prompted the United Nations Security Council to intervene, passing a resolution on May 2 that threatened the two sides with sanctions if they did not stop fighting. The south immediately signaled it was ready to talk. Mr. Bashir kept stalling, part of a strategy to allow the southern economy to become even more distressed and to bolster his own country's leverage to squeeze the south to pay higher oil transit fees.
''And it's true,'' said a United Nations official in Juba, speaking on background to frankly assess the state of affairs. ''If a deal isn't worked out soon and those soldiers don't get paid, things could get ugly. The lights could literally go out in Juba.''
The two sides are now discussing a seven-point security ''road map'' that requires pulling back from contested border areas, setting up a joint monitoring mechanism and ending covert support for proxy militias. The Security Council has given negotiators two more months to tackle the really delicate issues, like oil, but there is still a Persian Gulf-size gap between the two, with the north wanting more than $30 a barrel in transit fees and the south offering about a dollar.
Most analysts predict an oil compromise may be reached, but the more complicated territorial disputes may have to go to international arbitration, which could take years. While all this grinds on, analysts anticipate more breakdowns and attempts to patch things up, more violence followed by more hastily arranged cease-fires.
''While the tensions still exist and there's a lot of friction, both sides are saying, 'Look, we're committed to implementing the mandates spelled out by the African Union and the U.N. Security Council,' '' said Princeton N. Lyman, the American special envoy for Sudan, who has been attending the talks.
The most obvious problem is the lack of trust.
In the past year, the two sides have signed about five different protocols promising to demilitarize the border and cooperate on security issues and a variety of other matters. All have been summarily violated.
''The other side has been destroying South Sudan for 50 years,'' said Mr. Benjamin, the south's information minister. ''Trust will take some time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: South Sudanese soldiers in Unity State, near Sudan's border, in May. The south may soon run out of cash to pay its troops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON STRAZIUSO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); HISTORY (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); RELIGION (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%) SUDAN (99%); KENYA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



9 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Exhibiting New Assertiveness In South China Sea

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
MANILA -- In tropical waters off the coast of the Philippines, a standoff between half a dozen Chinese fishing boats, two Chinese law enforcement vessels and an aging Philippine Navy ship recently attracted a lot of attention in Washington, Beijing and other capitals across Asia.
Superficially, the squabble was over some rare corals, clams and poached sharks that Philippine Navy seamen were trying to retrieve in early April from the fishing boats operating in the Scarborough Shoal of the South China Sea until two Chinese Marine Surveillance craft intervened. After two tense days, the Philippine ship -- a refitted Coast Guard cutter sent by the United States last year to beef up its ally's weak defenses -- withdrew.
But the stakes were much larger, as the insistent claims ever since of sovereignty over the shoal by both the Philippine and Chinese governments made clear. The incident intensified longstanding international questions over the strategically critical, potentially energy-rich South China Sea that have become more urgent this year as the long-dominant United States and fast-growing China both seek to increase their naval power in the region. 
''We're just pawns,'' said Roberto Romulo, a former foreign secretary of the Philippines who argues that China is flexing its muscles in a bid to gain unimpeded access to vast reserves of natural gas and oil believed to be buried under the South China Sea. ''China is testing the United States, that's all it is. And China is eating America's lunch in Southeast Asia.''
More recently, a senior Chinese military officer even dismissed any legitimate role for the United States in the South China Sea. ''The South China issue is not America's business,'' Gen. Ma Xiaotian, the deputy chief of general staff of the People's Liberation Army, said in an interview broadcast Monday by Phoenix TV in Hong Kong. ''It's between China and its neighbors.''
The general's statement appeared to throw down a challenge to the Obama administration, which has sought in the past six months to enhance United States military strength around the western Pacific and East Asia, where the South China Sea serves as an essential waterway for not only the United States Navy but also for a large portion of the world's trade.
From placing Marines in the northern Australian port city of Darwin to increasing military relations with Vietnam, a country with an uneasy relationship with China, Washington has signaled its intention of staying, not leaving.
In the latest sign of its resolve to stand firm on Chinese assertiveness in the South China Sea, the administration sent Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to testify last week before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the need for the United States to ratify the United Nations treaty that is intended to govern the world's oceans.
China is one of 162 countries that has ratified the Law of the Sea treaty. But the United States has not done so, holding back from formal approval ever since President Ronald Reagan refused to sign it when it was completed in 1982.
A major goal of the joint appearance, administration officials said, was to strengthen the legal hand of the United States so that its navy can be assured the freedom of navigation that the treaty recognizes beyond any nation's territorial limit of 12 nautical miles.
In contrast, Western diplomats say, China argues that freedom of navigation comes into force only 200 nautical miles from a nation's coast, an argument that contravenes the Law of the Sea and, if put into effect, would basically render the South China Sea Beijing's private preserve.
While China may have no interest in blocking shipping in the South China Sea, there is also no doubt that it has begun to project its power in the area. Vietnam, for example, claims that Chinese boats twice sabotaged oil exploration efforts last year by deliberately cutting ship cables in its waters. China said one of the cable-cutting incidents was accidental.
Meanwhile, China is expected to deploy its first aircraft carrier this year.
Two-thirds of the world's natural gas trade passes through the waters of the South China Sea, according to a report by Yang Jiemian, president of the Shanghai Institutes for International Studies. The sea is the main passageway for oil from the Middle East to China, Japan, South Korea and the rest of Asia.
Now the sea itself is believed to hold a substantial reservoir of energy, with some experts predicting that under the seabed lies as much as 130 billion barrels of oil and 900 trillion cubic feet of gas.
''Possibly and hopefully the South China Sea will be a productive energy source,'' Xu Xiaojie, a former director of overseas investment for China National Petroleum Corporation, said in an interview. The Chinese Ministry of Land and Resources has done studies on the energy resources in the sea, Mr. Xu said, but detailed results have not been released.
In May, China National Offshore Oil Corporation, which until now has only had the technical ability to drill in shallow water, began its first deep-sea drilling project in an undisputed area of the South China Sea south of Hong Kong.
For China, the South China Sea is an integral part of its history. Days after the incident at Scarborough Shoal, known as Huangyan Island in China, the Chinese Foreign Ministry outlined some of the basic facts as interpreted by China. In 1279, the Chinese astronomer Guo Shoujing was commissioned by Emperor Kublai Khan to survey the seas around China. Huangyan Island was chosen as the starting point for the survey, the ministry said.
Mr. Romulo, the former foreign secretary, recalled that Zhou Enlai, the longtime second-in-command to Mao Zedong, had once pulled out a map to show his father, Carlos P. Romulo, who also served as a Philippine foreign secretary, that the Philippines rightfully belonged to China.
Aside from China and the Philippines, three other countries in Southeast Asia -- Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam -- make claims to islands in the sea. So does Taiwan.
Most perplexing to some claimants is China's insistence on what is referred to as a nine-dash map that Beijing says shows its territorial claims. The nine dashes were originally drawn as 11 in 1947, before the Communist victory, and then amended to nine in the early 1950s to bypass the Gulf of Tonkin as a courtesy to the Communists in Vietnam.
By some estimates the nine dashes incorporate about 80 percent of the South China Sea. The line encompasses the Spratly Islands and Paracel Islands, which Vietnam also claims. The two nations fought sporadically over their competing claims in the 1970s and 1980s.
From each land feature within the nine-dash line -- some of them little more than small rocks -- China claims a 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone that it says gives it the rights to the resources there according to the terms of the Law of the Sea.
According to officials here in Manila, China's line runs inside the 80-nautical-mile stretch of water between Palawan Island and Reed Bank, where a Philippine company says it has found significant deposits of natural gas. The Philippine government of President Benigno S. Aquino III backs a plan to begin drilling off Reed Bank in the next few months.
How China will react is an open question. Nationalist sentiment within China is riding high on the South China Sea, and the government itself seems divided, on tactics at least.
Western diplomats say the Foreign Ministry, while remaining firm, would like to find a solution to the quarrel with the Philippines, perhaps involving joint ventures between companies from both countries. But People's Liberation Army Daily, the military newspaper, has published strident editorials, stating that China will not stand for the Philippines or any other country claiming what is rightfully China's.
''If China's leaders follow the Chinese people, the policy on South China Sea and Southeast Asia will become very militant,'' said Shi Yinhong, professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.
Reflecting Washington's rising concern about the South China Sea, Mr. Panetta, the defense secretary, plans to deliver what is being billed as a major policy speech on Saturday at an annual conference sponsored by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, based in London, which is bringing together an influential audience of Asian officials in Singapore this weekend.
Others will be paying close attention to what Mr. Panetta has to say as well. After China warned India this year about exploration by an Indian company in waters off Vietnam, the company pulled out, citing technical reasons. But that was not the last word from India.
''The South China Sea,'' said S. M. Krishna, India's foreign minister, ''is the property of the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China National Offshore Oil Corporation's first deepwater oil drilling rig debarking last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Sparring Over the South China Sea: Two archipelagos in the South China Sea, clusters of hundreds of tiny islands known as the Paracel and Spratly Islands, have been the focus of a series of territorial disputes among the countries surrounding the strategic waterway. The islands are not particularly desirable in their own right, but for their proximity to some of the world's most important shipping lanes, and their claim on waters rich in seafood and a seabed that is believed to contain substantial oil and gas resources. The lines show various territorial claims, while the nine dashes reflect the extent of China's historic claim to much of the sea. (Source: United States Geological Survey, GEBCO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVAL VESSELS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); FISHES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



10 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Try to Prove Consultant's Link to Galleon's Moves

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Among the government's hurdles in its insider trading case against Rajat K. Gupta is proving that he benefited from any illegal trades.
Mr. Gupta, 63, a former head of the consulting firm McKinsey & Company, did not make any direct profits on the trades in question. He lost money on his investment with the Galleon Group, a hedge fund run by Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors say Mr. Gupta provided insider tips to Mr. Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year.
On Thursday, the eighth day of the trial at Federal District Court in Manhattan, the government sought to make its case against Mr. Gupta by showing that he played an active role in Galleon's business. Prosecutors called to the witness stand Ayad Alhadi, a former executive on Galleon's marketing team. 
To help win business, Mr. Alhadi said he leaned on Mr. Gupta, who in 2008 began helping Galleon raise money and took on the title of chairman of Galleon International. In early 2008, Mr. Alhadi and Mr. Gupta traveled to the Middle East for two days of back-to-back meetings with deep-pocketed investors like the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and the Emirates Bank.
At least two of the Middle East firms that Mr. Alhadi and Mr. Gupta pitched on their trip invested in Galleon's funds.
For some investors, a meeting with Mr. Gupta was like having a meeting with a rock star, Mr. Alhadi told government investigators in a pretrial interview, according to the defense. (Mr. Alhadi said he did not recall saying that.) In an e-mail to a banker that was going to help Galleon set up meetings, Mr. Alhadi praised Mr. Gupta's credentials.
''I will be in the Emirates with Rajat Gupta, a friend and adviser to Galleon,'' Mr. Alhadi wrote. ''He's a highly respected global business leader and I know a meeting with him would be very worthwhile.''
In another e-mail, Mr. Alhadi gushed to Mr. Gupta about the reaction of an executive at the National Bank of Abu Dhabi when he heard about Mr. Gupta's Galleon connection.
''When I told him about your affiliation with Galleon he was extremely impressed,'' Mr. Alhadi wrote. ''He said it would be an 'honor to meet you.' ''
Also on Thursday, prosecutors called Stephen Pierce, a senior executive at Goldman Sachs, to the witness stand to describe the secrecy surrounding some of the information that Mr. Gupta is accused of leaking. Mr. Pierce was actively involved in helping Goldman raise $10 billion in capital on Sept. 23, 2008, during the depths of the financial crisis. The money provided a vital lifeline to Goldman and lifted its stock price. Prosecutors contend that Mr. Gupta, who as a Goldman director had to approve that deal, leaked the information to Mr. Rajaratnam.
Mr. Pierce's testimony provided some levity and drama to the otherwise tedious proceedings.
He described to the jury that he was called away from the final game at the old Yankee Stadium on Sept. 21 to work on the Goldman deal.
''What was the significance of being there on that day?'' asked a prosecutor.
Judge Jed S. Rakoff, a Yankees season ticket holder and die-hard fan who is overseeing the trial, could not resist interjecting.
''As opposed to the significance of being there on any other day?'' the judge said, eliciting laughter from the jury.
Mr. Pierce said that he had received a call from his boss about an emergency conference call with the bank's top executives to discuss strategies for raising capital. He said he was having trouble finding a quiet place at the stadium to have the conversation.
''The only place I could find was a janitorial closet, so that's where I did the call,'' Mr. Pierce said.
Judge Rakoff again interjected, asking Mr. Pierce if he was sure he had not been in the Yankees manager's office.
Mr. Pierce said that he walked out of the closet, went back to his seats to tell his cousin he had to leave, and then hailed a taxi back to Goldman's offices. The next two days, he said, were spent working round the clock to get the deal done.
On cross-examination, the defense tried to suggest to the jury that the Goldman news was not as confidential as Mr. Pierce had indicated. Mr. Gupta's lawyer showed an e-mail that Mr. Pierce sent to his own lawyer - David Scherl at Morrison Cohen - at 5:08 p.m. on Sept. 23, 2008 - about a half-hour before the capital raise was announced.
''Watch the tape,'' Mr. Pierce wrote, suggesting that Mr. Scherl look out for a news announcement on the financial wires. ''Hard work pays off.''
Right after Goldman released the news, at 5:50 p.m., the lawyer, Mr. Scherl at Morrison Cohen, replied to Mr. Pierce.
''I am psyched for YOU, STUD ... well done,'' he wrote. ''Well done. Feel proud, Buddy.''
Judge Rakoff's courtroom also had a chance to feature New York's other baseball team.
Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York, took a seat in the back row of the spectators' gallery toward the end of Thursday's proceedings. Mr. Cuomo served as the mediator in the legal dispute between the Madoff trustee and the owners of the Mets.
At 5 p.m., after the Gupta trial broke for the day, Judge Rakoff approved a $162 million settlement between the two sides.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajat K. Gupta, right, a former Goldman director, arriving at federal court in Manhattan. Mr. Gupta is accused of insider trading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WITNESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NATIONAL BANK OF ABU DHABI (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); NBAD (ADX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



11 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Many Retailers' Sales Rose in May Despite Concerns About Economy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The nation's top retailers posted better-than-expected sales in May as wary consumers overcame their growing anxiety about the economy.
Chains that cater to bargain hunters including Target, TJX Companies and the Ross Stores were among the big winners in May, with sales at stores open at least year that beat Wall Street expectations.
Another winner, Macy's, continued to hold sales events and lure shoppers away from a rival, J.C. Penney, which has suffered falling sales since it eliminated discounting in February. 
Retailers have not had to resort to desperate price slashing as they did at the height of the 2008 financial panic. But shoppers have been swift to punish retailers, like Penney, that pulled back on coupons and discounts.
''They absolutely have to keep up the promotional pace. They don't have to go overboard but it drives traffic and that's what they have to do,'' said Ken Perkins, an analyst with Retail Metrics. ''Penney paid a price.''
A midtier department store, Kohl's, also lost many shoppers during the holidays after it lowered discounts on many items.
Kohl's has failed to capitalize on Penney's problems and reported a worse-than-expected 4.2 percent decline in same-store sales. Kohl's said problems resulting from a lack of inventory would continue until the start of the back-to-school period in late July.
Kohl's has tried to maintain tighter inventory levels and avoid having to discount unsold merchandise.
Kohl's shares closed 6.15 percent lower on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Thomson Reuters Same Store Sales index rose 3.9 percent for May for 18 chains, beating Wall Street forecasts of a 3.6 percent rise but lower than the 5.4 percent gain a year ago.
Still, retailers got a boost from a later Mother's Day -- it fell on May 13, five days later than last year, when some sales got pulled into April -- and from lower gas prices. A later Mother's Day draws more sales into May and away from April.
The International Council of Shopping Centers expects same-store sales, excluding drugstores, to rise 3.5 percent to 4 percent in June. But the organization's chief economist, Michael P. Niemira, said economic worries would continue to make shoppers cautious.
Analysts said Americans would still seek out low prices this summer, given slumping consumer confidence amid worries about the job market and Europe's debt crisis, and the absence of a major shopping event until the back-to-school period.
A report on Tuesday from the industry group the Conference Board showed consumer confidence had fallen in May to its lowest level since the start of the year, marking the third month of declines.
Wealthy shoppers shrugged off concerns about the stock market: May same-store sales at Saks and Nordstrom were higher than expected.
But even the luxury segment is vulnerable if the stock market continues its current decline or if the euro keeps falling against the dollar and hurts tourism from Europe.
''If the stock markets were to be hit substantially, then we would be concerned,'' Saks' chief executive, Stephen I. Sadove, told shareholders at the retailer's annual meeting on Wednesday.
Target said its comparable sales were up 4.4 percent, and forecast that in June sales would be flat to up about 5 percent. TJX, owner of the Marshalls and T.J. Maxx chains, said same-store sales were up 8 percent, well above analysts' forecasts. Shares of the company, which sells designer brands at lower prices than department stores, were up 2.7 percent.
Limited Brands, the parent of Victoria's Secret and Pink, said same-store sales rose 6 percent.
Costco said its May same-store sales had risen 4 percent, hurt by the strong dollar's impact on overseas sales. Analysts were expecting a 4.3 percent increase.
Meanwhile, a 1 percent decline at Gap's lower-price Old Navy chain pulled the whole company's results below expectations despite strong gains at its namesake and Banana Republic chains. Gap shares ended 0.64 percent lower.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at Target in Falls Church, Va. Same-store sales at Target rose 4.4 percent in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) CHARTS: Retail Sales for May: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended May 26, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: Company reports
 Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (64%); EURO CRISIS (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: KOHL'S CORP (91%); TJX COS INC (91%); ROSS STORES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: KSS (NYSE) (91%); TJX (NYSE) (91%); ROST (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



12 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: With Decline, Market Closes a Dismal Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
With a disappointing finish on Thursday, the stock market closed what was by some measures its worst month in two years. Over five dismal weeks, Facebook fizzled, the debt crisis in Europe intensified and few investors were in the mood to buy. 
Instead, they rushed to Treasury securities, sending yields to new lows on Thursday.
With May's declines, the Dow Jones industrial average and other major indexes erased most of the gains they built up through March and held on to in April.
''The sentiment has changed,'' said Craig Callahan, co-founder and president of ICON Advisers in Denver. ''Anytime the market dips like this, it erodes some confidence. It scares people out of the market. All of the above, May has done that.''
The Dow lost 820 points for the month, its worst showing since May 2010, when the one-day ''flash crash'' overwhelmed computer servers and set off widespread investigations of stock trading.
This May, stocks limped to the finish. The Dow closed down 26.41 points, or 0.21 percent, on Thursday to end the month at 12,393.45. It declined in all but five of 22 trading sessions.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.99 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,310.33. It fell 6.3 percent in May, its worst month since September. The Nasdaq composite index fell 10.02 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,827.34, and had its worst month in two years.
On Thursday, the government gave investors two unpleasant pieces of economic data. The number of people applying for unemployment benefits rose to a five-week high, and economic growth from January through March was slower than first thought.
Underscoring the crisis in Europe, the head of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, told European leaders that the setup of the 17-country euro currency union was ''unsustainable unless further steps are taken.''
Worried about Europe and the weaker readings on the American economy, investors on Thursday continued a stampede into United States government bonds, which they see as a safer place to put their money.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, to 101 23/32. Its yield fell to the lowest on record, 1.53 percent, before ending the day at 1.56 percent, compared with 1.62 percent late Wednesday.
The 10-year Treasury yield last hit 1.55 percent in November 1945, after the end of World War II, when government price controls kept interest rates down to preserve financial stability.
For the year, the sell-off in May left the Dow up just 1.4 percent, the S.& P. 500 up 4.2 percent and the Nasdaq up 8.5 percent.
Troubles in Greece dominated headlines for much of the month, but Spain has been the market's albatross this week. Spain will have to spend almost $24 billion to bail out one of its biggest banks.
''Greece is a failed chemistry experiment,'' said Michael Strauss, chief investment strategist at the Commonfund investment firm in Connecticut. ''But we are more worried about Spain because of its size and the scope.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); EURO (67%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); WORLD WAR II (60%); NETWORK SERVERS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



13 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Amazon to Build New Jersey Warehouses and Collect State Tax

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
Amazon plans to build two large distribution centers in New Jersey and will start collecting state sales tax next summer from its customers in the state, Gov. Chris Christie announced. 
Construction of the warehouses, each projected to be about a million square feet, is scheduled to begin next year, the governor and Amazon officials said Wednesday, and to result in 1,500 full-time jobs and thousands of part-time and seasonal jobs when they are both operating.
Under an agreement with the state, Amazon, which is based in Seattle, will start collecting the state's 7 percent sales tax on orders from New Jersey residents by July 1, 2013 -- unless federal legislation is passed that mandates an earlier date -- thus resolving complaints from merchants based in New Jersey.
Out-of-state online retailers like Amazon do not have to charge New Jersey residents sales tax, while in-state merchants must, leaving them at what they feel is a competitive disadvantage.
Amazon customers, like other online shoppers, are supposed to keep track of what tax they owe on online purchases and pay that amount when they file their income taxes. They rarely do so, depriving the state of revenue.
Amazon has agreed to build warehouses in a number of other states in return for extending sales tax exemptions for a certain period of time. In discussions with New Jersey officials, Amazon had sought a 22-month reprieve before it would need to begin to collect tax. Mr. Christie estimated that the new agreement, which followed months of negotiations and hinged in large part on the timing of sales tax collections, would result in $30 million to $40 million a year in additional tax revenue for the state.
Amazon's vice president for global public policy, Paul Misener, who joined Mr. Christie at a news conference announcing the deal, called it a ''great first step with the State of New Jersey.''
The distribution centers, estimated to cost $130 million, are contingent on Amazon's receiving tax incentives, which are different than the sales tax agreement, from the New Jersey Economic Development Authority. The retailer did not say how much it would seek. The sites for the warehouses have not yet been chosen.
''We're very pleased with the deal,'' said John Holub, the president of the New Jersey Retail Merchants Association, which has long argued that Amazon and other out-of-state online retailers should charge state tax immediately. ''We now have a definite date when Amazon will begin to collect tax.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES TAX (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (56%)

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



14 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: A Small Bank and 19 Ex-Workers Are Charged With Mortgage Fraud

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER

 BODY:
Abacus Federal Savings Bank, a small bank with a major presence in New York City's Chinese community, and 19 of its former employees have been charged with inflating the qualifications of mortgage applicants to meet federal loan standards, a scheme that prosecutors say brought the bank tens of millions of dollars in ill-gotten fees and sent hundreds of millions of dollars in risky mortgages to the investment market.
The indictment against the bank and its employees describes the sort of scheme that led to the financial crisis of 2008, when the risk of mortgages to borrowers was disguised and passed on to investors. As those mortgages went bad, banks considered too big to fail were brought to their knees and bailed out by taxpayers. 
From May 2005 through February 2010, hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of Abacus mortgages were guaranteed by the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, based upon false information, the indictment says.
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said his office had not obtained an indictment against a bank since its 1991 case against Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
In announcing the indictment on Thursday, Mr. Vance said that nearly all of the Abacus loans were still performing, meaning the borrowers were still making payments on the mortgages they received. But Mr. Vance said that the 2008 financial crisis showed the danger of waiting for illegitimate mortgages to go bad.
''If we've learned anything from the recent mortgage crisis it's that at some point, these schemes will unravel and taxpayers could be left holding the bag,'' Mr. Vance said.
Twelve former Abacus employees were arraigned in State Supreme Court in Manhattan on Thursday; seven others have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the investigation.
Abacus was founded in 1984 by business leaders from the Chinese community to provide banking services to immigrants and residents of Lower Manhattan. Its seven branches include two in Chinatown and others in Sunset Park, Brooklyn; and Flushing, Queens.
The bank attracted the attention of investigators in 2003, when a bank manager was charged with taking more than $1 million from customers' accounts; panicked depositors then staged a Depression-style run on the bank, withdrawing more than $2 million.
Jill Sung, whose father, Thomas Sung, founded the bank and remains chairman of its board, became the bank's chief executive in 2005 and quickly moved to save the bank by selling $30 million in mortgage loans to Fannie Mae, she told Crain's New York that year.
''Regulators I have talked to say that not too many banks could have survived what we went through,'' Ms. Sung told Crain's at the time.
The Sungs were not charged in the scheme and remain in their positions.
Mr. Vance said the investigation was continuing. He said his office had uncovered the scheme after a borrower reported a suspicion about the bank to the local police precinct.
In a statement released through a spokesman, Mr. Sung accused Mr. Vance of ''putting his own political fortunes ahead of the needs of the community and the city as a whole.''
''As an immigrant who came to America more than 50 years ago, I have always believed in my country's reputation for fairness and justice,'' the statement said. ''But today's action by the D.A. is an appalling example to the contrary. I am greatly disappointed in the district attorney's actions. There are so many distortions and inaccuracies in his indictment, it is shameful.''
Mr. Sung's statement, which did not point out specific inaccuracies, said that Abacus had itself reported problems within its lending division to regulators and added that its loan default rate remained well below national averages.
Indicting a business can lead to its demise, a reason that many investigations into large corporations end with deferred prosecution agreements and fines. That trend has been a political hot point in the wake of the financial collapse, with many saying the companies and executives who profited from mortgage investment schemes were afforded undue leniency.
Mr. Vance said he had seriously contemplated the potential ''collateral consequences'' of indicting the bank itself. But he said the problems were too pervasive and the bank's cooperation was ''too little, too late'' to warrant not prosecuting it.
Mr. Vance's office said the fraud had infected every unit at Abacus, including its management. On thousands of loans, prospective borrowers were instructed to inflate their incomes, assets and job titles to meet Fannie Mae's requirements. Loan officers created fake letters saying borrowers had received money for their down payments in gifts.
During the arraignment of the 12 former employees, some required the assistance of a translator and appeared stunned as they were led off to jail by court officers pending hearings on bail applications. All 12 face conspiracy charges, with some facing additional counts, including grand larceny and mortgage fraud. Seven face sentences of up to 25 years on the most serious charges against them.
Loan officials were paid by commission, according to the indictment, and so benefitted personally from the scheme, with one top-producing loan originator making more than $300,000 a year.
Prosecutors described Yiu Wah Wong, 61, of Flushing, as the most senior manager to be charged at the bank. Edward Starishevsky, an assistant district attorney, said Mr. Wong was ''involved in this entire conspiracy from beginning to end.''
Mr. Wong was quietly arrested in mid-April; he is free on $100,000 bail. Outside of the courtroom, his lawyer, Sanford Talkin, said his client looked forward to clearing his name.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 07, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the indictment of Abacus Federal Savings Bank, a small bank with a major presence in New York City's Chinese community, and 19 of its former employees in a scheme to inflate the qualifications of mortgage applicants misidentified a lawyer representing a defendant, Yiu Wah Wong, and a correction in this space on Saturday misstated part of that defendant's name. Yiu Wah Wong -- not Yuh Wah Wong -- is represented by Sanford Talkin. He is not represented by Scott B. Tulman, who has another client in the case.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some of the former Abacus Bank employees who are charged with inflating the qualifications of mortgage applicants arrived at court on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%)

COMPANY: ABACUS FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



15 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: A Terse Warning for Euro States: Do Something Now

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting from Berlin, Raphael Minder from Madrid, Paul Geitner from Brussels and Liz Alderman from Athens.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president who pulled the Continent back from the financial brink late last year, is facing an even more daunting challenge as the debt crisis in Spain deepens. But this time, he may have a harder time fashioning a rescue plan that will work.
In a warning to political leaders, Mr. Draghi told members of the European Parliament on Thursday that the central bank is reaching the limits of its powers and now it is up to politicians to move quickly and decisively because the survival of the euro, the Continent's common currency, is at stake. The structure of the currency union, he said, had become ''unsustainable unless further steps are undertaken.''
The note of frustration and urgency in Mr. Draghi's voice was a sharp contrast to six months ago, when he took over as central bank president and eased the crisis with what was considered a bold easy-money plan that extended some $1.3 trillion in low-interest loans to large banks throughout Europe to restore confidence. 
But the success of that plan has been short-lived, underscoring the far more limited authority he has compared with what the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, had at the height of the financial crisis in 2008. And the few options at Mr. Draghi's disposal help explain why pessimism is growing about Europe's ability to contain its crisis.
Europe's problem, much like in the United States in 2008, is that its financial system is fraying. Troubled countries and weakened banks alike have difficulty borrowing money to sustain their operations as nervous investors pull back from risk.
The solution to the 2008 crisis, orchestrated by Mr. Bernanke along with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., was to flood the banking system with hundreds of billions of dollars while buttressing the system with many other measures to calm investors.
Mr. Paulson famously got down on bended knee to persuade reluctant and divided Congressional leaders to approve the plan. It wasn't an easy sell, but without the infusion of cash, the financial crisis in the United States would probably have been much worse.
Europe similarly needs a robust rescue plan, but Mr. Draghi has to overcome even more obstacles than his American counterparts because Europe has many different countries with many different interests, issues and priorities. Mr. Draghi, a dignified Italian and an economist by training, is not the type to be a supplicant like Mr. Paulson, a former Wall Street banker, was in 2008.
But even if he were, whom would he beseech for action? At least Mr. Paulson, as head of a national treasury, knew whom to convince. The euro zone has 17 heads of government and 17 parliaments, not to mention the relatively powerless European Union executive branch and the European Parliament that was Mr. Draghi's audience Thursday.
In what may have been his most blunt criticism of political leaders since he took office in November, Mr. Draghi said that half-measures and delays had made the euro zone crisis worse. He said the leaders needed to decide what kind of euro zone they wanted, and fast. ''Dispel this fog,'' he said.
Mr. Draghi is among the most powerful figures in the euro zone drama, as head of the only institution with both huge financial resources and an ability to make decisions without a laborious political process. Government leaders, wary of the political cost, have looked time and again to the central bank to deliver relief.
But Mr. Draghi said Thursday that the crisis now demanded solutions that could only come from political leaders -- like creation of a Europe-wide deposit insurance program. Such a system, like deposit insurance in the United States, would reassure bank customers that their money was equally safe in any euro zone country, and that might prevent the sort of money flight that is now sapping Spain. He also backed calls by European Commission leaders on Wednesday for a more unified banking system. But he has no authority to affect change, as only the lawmakers of the euro zone countries could together create such a deposit insurance system.
''From the E.C.B.'s perspective, the next iteration of crisis management largely falls on the shoulders of member states,'' said Mujtaba Rahman, a euro zone analyst at the Eurasia Group. ''Arguably all the incremental plays have been exhausted.''
There have been many spikes in the euro zone's fever, of course, with a bailout here or a stopgap measure there seeming to calm things for a while. But this time, Europe may have reached a moment when the currency union's survival depends on a powerful, convincing response.
Greece, progenitor of the debt debacle, is in political turmoil again, and this time it is in danger of dropping out of the euro zone altogether. Spain, with one of the region's largest economies, is in the grip of a banking crisis, and there is a growing sense that the danger to Spanish banks is of a different order of magnitude from that in suffering-but-small Greece.
The clearest danger signal may be the euro currency itself. It is at a near two-year low against the dollar, as investors who can do so are pulling out. On Thursday, the Bank of Spain revealed that investors had withdrawn 66 billion euros, or $81.7 billion, from the country in March, almost double the previous monthly record of 34 billion euros last December. The statistics, however, do not reflect the most pressing problems faced by Spain, led by the cost of nationalizing Bankia, a giant mortgage lender.
Mr. Draghi has tools to spur governments to action but must use them carefully. He can use rhetoric as he did Thursday. He also can use the central bank's role as lender of last resort to banks, which effectively gives the bank power of life and death over financial institutions.
That power was inadvertently on display Thursday. Mr. Draghi disclosed that the central bank had resumed normal lending to Greece's four largest banks after they received a fresh infusion of European bailout money. That should at least temporarily ease fears of bank failures in that country before its election on June 17.
''The E.C.B. will continue lending to solvent banks,'' Mr. Draghi told a committee of the European Parliament. ''We will avoid bank runs by solvent banks.''
Still, the situation illustrated how dependent Greece is on the central bank. If Greece were cut off, its banking system would collapse, and the country would probably have to leave the euro.
European leaders say they agree with Mr. Draghi on the need for a more centralized euro zone -- but structural changes that could strengthen the euro zone for the long term may not do much to help in the short term.
''I have always said we need more Europe,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany told reporters in the German city of Stralsund on Thursday, hours after Mr. Draghi spoke. But she did not sound as if she would be able to deliver major changes soon.
''There are integration steps that require treaty changes, and we are not there yet today,'' Ms. Merkel said.
Mr. Draghi's powers are also limited, by the bank's charter and conservative members of the bank's 23-member governing council. Unlike Mr. Bernanke, for example, Mr. Draghi cannot unilaterally pump large amounts of money into the financial system by buying government bonds.
Moreover, while the central bank can make sure that banks have enough money to operate from day to day, Mr. Draghi said, it cannot replenish their depleted capital reserves. Nor can it solve the problem of excessive government debt or the inability of countries like Greece to compete in international export markets, he said.
Underlying the euro zone crisis are underperforming economies that lack the basic requirements to create jobs or foster innovation, like modern universities or functioning government institutions. Just getting an electricity connection takes an average of 77 days in Greece, according to the World Bank.
''Can the E.C.B. fill the vacuum left by lack of euro area governance?'' Mr. Draghi asked. ''The answer is no.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi spoke Thursday to the European Parliament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY CHARLIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); APPROVALS (66%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (83%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



16 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Wisecracks in White House As Bush Portrait Is Unveiled

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When former President George W. Bush returned to the White House on Thursday to unveil his official portrait, he brought along his wife, Laura; his parents, George and Barbara; daughters, Jenna and Barbara; and a couple of hundred cheering and whooping former staff members.
''Behave yourselves,'' a grinning Mr. Bush said to the audience, which included his longtime political guru Karl Rove and former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. Turning to President Obama with a look of mock chagrin, Mr. Bush said, ''Thank you so much for inviting our rowdy friends to my hanging.'' 
That wisecrack was one of a series uncorked by the 43rd president, who was making a rare re-emergence into the glare of TV cameras. And it captured the peculiar nature of this White House ritual, in which the president and his predecessor are meant to banish partisanship in favor of civility, bonhomie and even grace.
Mr. Obama, whose re-election bid is based on stoking fears of returning to the failed policies of Mr. Bush, praised his predecessor as having ''extraordinary strength and resolve'' after the Sept. 11 attacks. Americans, he said, will never forget the image of him standing atop the rubble of the World Trade Center, bullhorn in hand.
''Plus,'' Mr. Obama said, smiling at Mr. Bush, ''you also left me a really good TV sports package. I use it.''
It was not clear whether Mr. Obama was lauding or tweaking Mr. Bush when he recalled the chaotic months after the 2008 election. ''We wouldn't know until later just how breathtaking the financial crisis had been,'' he said.
Then the president invited Mr. and Mrs. Bush to the stage, where they lifted black sheets to unveil portraits by a Texas artist, John Howard Sanden. Mr. Bush is depicted in the Oval Office before one of his favorite artworks, a 1929 Western painting, ''A Charge to Keep,'' which he used as the title for his memoir. Mrs. Bush is depicted in a midnight-blue gown, standing in the Green Room, which she helped refurbish in 2007.
Mr. Bush thanked Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, for their hospitality in feeding 14 members of the Bush family. He steered clear of substantive remarks about Mr. Obama's presidency, instead jesting about how the White House collection would now start and end with a George W. (the other being George Washington).
He reminded Mrs. Obama that when British soldiers set fire to the White House in 1814, another first lady, Dolley Madison, saved the portrait of the first George W. ''Now, Michelle,'' he said, gesturing to his newly unveiled painting, ''if anything happens, there's your man.'' And he told Mr. Obama that as he wrestled with tough decisions, he could always ''gaze at this portrait and ask, 'What would George do?' ''
Mr. Bush's voice caught once, when he paid tribute to his father, ''Number 41,'' who he said ''gave me the greatest gift possible: unconditional love.'' Former President George Bush sat in the front row in a wheelchair.
Mrs. Bush got off a few good lines of her own, telling Mrs. Obama that ''nothing makes a house a home like having portraits of its former occupants staring down at you from the walls.'' And Mrs. Obama noted approvingly that Jenna and Barbara were ''just a mess,'' wiping away tears as they watched their parents.
In addition to Mr. Rove and Mr. Rumsfeld, the audience included former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell; Alberto R. Gonzales, the former attorney general; and Andrew Card, who served as chief of staff. Mr. Rove sat in the second row, exchanging pleasantries with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
But Mr. Bush was clearly the big draw. He has been in something of a self-imposed political exile since he left office, offering only a fleeting endorsement of Mr. Romney -- ''I'm for Mitt Romney,'' he said to ABC News -- as the doors of his elevator closed after a speech in Washington.
Mr. Bush offered his predecessor, Bill Clinton, a similarly gracious unveiling in 2004. But earlier in history, the presidential historian Michael Beschloss noted: ''You had presidents hiding the portraits of predecessors they didn't like. In recent years instead, this has become a rare presidential ritual of national bipartisanship.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former President George W. Bush with his wife, Laura, at the unveiling of their portraits. The first President Bush attended in a wheelchair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
 LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



17 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Recall Election Could Foretell November Vote

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
WAUKESHA, Wis. -- If this was ever an election just about Wisconsin, it is far more than that now.
With more than $30 million raised from conservative donors, many of them from other states, and visits from a who's who of high-profile Republican governors (Chris Christie, Nikki Haley, Bobby Jindal, Bob McDonnell), Gov. Scott Walker's campaign to survive a recall vote has the feel, the money and the stakes of a national race.
And in many ways it is. The outcome of the election on Tuesday will not just decide the state's leanings on matters of budget, taxes and policy, as well as the ultimate trajectory of Mr. Walker's fast-rising political prospects. It will also send a message about a larger fight over labor across the country, and about whether voters are likely to reject those who cut collective bargaining rights, as Governor Walker did here last year for most of the state's public workers, setting off this battle in the first place.
Broadly, the results will be held up as an omen for the presidential race in the fall, specifically for President Obama's chances of capturing this Midwestern battleground -- one that he easily won in 2008 but that Republicans nearly swept in the midterm elections of 2010. 
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Walker, who is only the third governor in the nation to face a recall election, dashed onto a makeshift stage on a loading dock here as supporters screamed, the song ''Only in America'' pounded from loudspeakers, a bank of television cameras rolled and Mr. Jindal, the governor of Louisiana, beamed behind him.
With the remnants of a sinus infection and round-the-clock campaign stops lingering in his voice, Mr. Walker urged the crowd not to let up, declaring that union bosses were pouring money into the state to remove him because, he said, ''they don't like the fact that we've got a governor here who stood up and took on the powerful special interests.''
Mr. Walker's Democratic opponent, Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, who holds the hopes of hundreds of thousands of Wisconsin residents who began seeking Mr. Walker's recall just a year into the governor's first term, has trailed in some public polls, though Mr. Walker's lead has generally fallen within each poll's margin of sampling error.
A Marquette Law School telephone poll of 600 likely voters, conducted last week, found Mr. Walker leading 52 percent to 45 percent; the poll's margin of sampling error was plus or minus 4 percentage points for each candidate.
Mr. Barrett, who ran for governor against Mr. Walker in 2010, again became the Democrats' nominee a month ago when he won a contested primary -- one step in the process, set by Wisconsin law, for calling what amounts to a new election for a sitting governor if at least a quarter of the total number of voters from the last election sign recall petitions.
He has drawn his own outside help from national Democrats as well as from union groups, which are operating at least 32 field offices here and say they have been building neighborhood alliances with advocates for environmental issues, women, retirees and other causes. In the last few months, Mr. Barrett has raised more than $4 million in contributions -- a lot, though not on the same scale as Mr. Walker, who benefited from a quirk in state law that allowed him to raise unlimited contributions (in some cases, as much as $500,000 from individual donors) for his campaign's expenses before a recall was officially declared by the state.
At a restaurant in Mondovi, a small town in western Wisconsin, a table of women continued their bridge game the other day as Mr. Barrett asked for the crowd's votes, pledged to end the ''civil war'' that has boiled over in Wisconsin in the last 16 months and poked at his opponent's blossoming national profile.
''He loves being the poster boy for the Tea Party movement in this country,'' Mr. Barrett, addressing another group jammed into a cafe in Menomonie, said of Mr. Walker. ''And he has had a lot of success -- he's become the rock star of the far right.''
Former President Bill Clinton was expected to arrive here on Friday to campaign for Mr. Barrett, but to the disappointment of some voters, Mr. Obama has not appeared in person to bolster the campaign, nor have his top surrogates.
Although the president has conveyed his support for Mr. Barrett, the recall is an undeniably complex calculus for Mr. Obama's strategists: Wisconsin has voted for Democrats in every presidential election since 1988, but the margins have sometimes been remarkably slim, and the recall election has led independents and Republicans who voted for Mr. Obama four years ago to take sides. He needs their votes in November and may not want to alienate them by stepping conspicuously into the fight.
State Democratic leaders say that Mr. Obama's campaign has worked diligently on the race, devoting volunteers to outreach and early voting, and that Democrats nationally -- including the Democratic National Committee's chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who appeared in the state this week on Mr. Barrett's behalf, and the Democratic Governors Association's chairman, Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, who campaigned here on Thursday -- have fought hard.
''I hope everybody understands that this is important not only for Wisconsin, which is of primary importance, but also for the rights of workers across this country and frankly for the Democratic Party, for President Obama -- they all have a stake in this,'' said Russ Feingold, a former United States senator who was defeated here in the 2010 Republican wave.
Wisconsin residents once brimmed with stories of bipartisan cooperation -- or at least civilized discourse between opposing political sides. Overflowing here now: stories of marriages, friendships, workplaces, Thanksgiving dinners divided by the fight that began in February 2011, when Mr. Walker announced plans to cut benefits and strip collective bargaining rights for most public workers.
Winning this election may be less a matter of convincing undecided voters, if there are any, than of getting people to the polls. The splintering that started when Mr. Walker cut bargaining rights has seeped into other issues: austere budget choices; a voter ID law; removal of a law that allowed people to seek punitive and compensatory damages in state court over employment discrimination; efforts to encourage iron ore mining,
Among the voters, the sides are stark and, more than a year after tens of thousands of protesters marched around the State Capitol in Madison, surprisingly raw.
''We don't want the state taken over by the Koch brothers,'' said Mary Jean Nicholls, a former teacher, referring to Charles and David Koch, billionaire industrialists who are among Mr. Walker's supporters.
Craig Dedo, a computer consultant and Walker supporter, said the race boiled down to one question: Who runs Wisconsin? ''The Democrats and the unions, who are the takers?'' he asked, ''or the Republicans, the party of the private sector and the people who pay the bills?''
Mr. Barrett says he will work to restore collective bargaining rights, though, given Republican control of the State Assembly, that would be no small task. On the campaign trail, he regularly points to a continuing investigation that has led to criminal charges against aides and associates from the governor's previous job as Milwaukee County executive.
And he criticizes Mr. Walker, who promised to bring 250,000 new jobs to the state by the end of 2014, over the state's jobs picture -- an issue that is a matter of intense debate. The Democrats, citing survey data used by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, say that the state has lost tens of thousands of jobs since 2010, while Mr. Walker, citing unemployment insurance reports recently submitted by the state to the federal government, says that Wisconsin has actually gained tens of thousands of jobs.
For his part, Mr. Walker criticizes Mr. Barrett for his leadership in Milwaukee, the state's most populous city, citing increased tax burdens and unemployment.
A Walker victory would reawaken the hopes and efforts of Republicans here on behalf of Mitt Romney. It would also, Governor Walker says, allow Wisconsin to end this scuffle at last.
''What we do here in Wisconsin is we disagree sometimes on issues, and then we move on, and that's what we're going to do here,'' Mr. Walker said in an interview. ''I think we're going to move on and move forward.''
Still, whatever the election results, some voters said they expected to see only more -- more recalls of state lawmakers, more lawsuits over legislation, more discord around supper tables.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Walker, the Republican governor, campaigning last week.
 Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, a Democrat, is opposing Mr. Walker for the governorship in the recall election on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (53%); SINUSITIS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NIKKI HALEY (56%); BOBBY JINDAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



18 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: China Lets Its Currency Depreciate

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Xu Yan contributed research from Shanghai.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China's currency dropped further in May against the dollar than in any other month since the Chinese government began allowing the renminbi to appreciate gradually in the summer of 2005. The shift could help Chinese exports but worsen trade friction with Europe and particularly the United States.
By setting weaker and weaker daily ''fixings'' for the renminbi against the dollar at the start of each day's trading, China's central bank has pushed down the renminbi 0.9 percent against the dollar over the last month. The decline in the daily fixings coincides with signs that the Chinese domestic economy is slowing sharply this spring and may need help from stronger exports. 
A cheaper renminbi makes Chinese exports more competitive in overseas markets while making foreign goods more costly and less affordable in China. The Obama administration has been pressing China for the last three years to allow faster appreciation in the renminbi, not depreciation, as a way to narrow the United States's trade deficit with China, which reached a record $295.46 billion last year.
The Treasury Department issued a report last Friday criticizing China's management of its exchange rate and calling for the first time for China to release data on the scale of its foreign exchange market interventions. But the report stopped short of labeling China a currency manipulator, a label that Chinese leaders have indicated they would bitterly resent and oppose.
The Chinese central bank pushed the renminbi up slightly on Monday, the first trading day after the Treasury report, but has let it slide further each of the last three trading days. The Treasury declined on Thursday to comment on the renminbi's depreciation while the Chinese central bank, the People's Bank of China, has stayed silent this spring on currency policy.
Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said last autumn that if he were elected president, he would label China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. One of his recent television ads predicts the expected actions of Mr. Romney's first day in office, with the narrator saying that through the day, ''President Romney stands up to China on trade, and demands they play by the rules.''
Bankers and economists say that there have been some hints that foreign investors and Chinese citizens alike have been moving money out of China in recent weeks, which could have contributed to the fall in the renminbi. Money managers around the world have become more risk averse as the European and Chinese economies have deteriorated this spring, setting off a decline in the currencies of many emerging markets.
China has also been bothered by political worries this spring associated with the purge of Bo Xilai, who was suspended from the Politburo in April.
But with more than $3.3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, combined with tight regulatory controls on the Shanghai currency market and some lingering controls on the movement of money in and out of China, Beijing still has great discretion in deciding the daily value of the renminbi. While Chinese officials have been silent about currency policy in recent weeks, few economists doubt that the recent decline in the renminbi represents anything other than an attempt to stimulate exports.
''During a difficult period of slowing growth and weak export demand, the government is taking the opportunity afforded by an apparent net outflow of capital to guide the value of the renminbi lower against the dollar to help support exports,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund.
The Chinese economy is suffering this spring from the slowest fixed-asset investment in a decade, steadily declining foreign investment, weakening retail sales and a rapidly deflating real estate bubble. China could benefit considerably from the jobs and wealth that would be created by ramping up exports and supplying a larger share of the world's demand in markets, ranging from shoes and garments to flat-panel displays and auto parts.
But a surge in Chinese exports in the middle of a global economic slowdown could also ruin the livelihoods of large numbers of workers in other developing countries that compete with China to supply the same goods.
China is also shifting its exports toward higher-technology products like telecommunications gear and power plant turbines. So an expansion in Chinese exports could also displace sizable numbers of workers in the United States, Europe and Japan who produce goods similar to those from China.
China may have another motive in allowing the renminbi to decline against the dollar over the last month: the dollar's strength. The euro has been sliding against the dollar this spring, and because the renminbi is effectively linked to the dollar, the euro has also been weak recently against the renminbi.
This has hurt the competitiveness of Chinese exports to Europe -- and China exports slightly more to Europe than it does to the United States. Even with the renminbi's decline against the dollar in May, the renminbi still rose 5.5 percent against the euro during the month.
A few Chinese economists are even arguing that the renminbi should now be devalued further. They are largely ignored by mainstream Chinese economists but are starting to receive a warm reception from some of the more nationalistic media outlets, like The Global Times, which is affiliated with People's Daily and is stridently critical of the West and most of China's East Asian neighbors, with the exception of North Korea.
Lu Zhengwei, the chief economist of the Industrial Bank in Fuzhou, is among the advocates of a weaker Chinese currency. ''I personally think the renminbi will be more or less stable this year, but ideally, it should depreciate by at least 3 to 5 percent,'' he said in an interview last Friday.
Mr. Lu said that Chinese exports to the United States, Europe and Japan were growing more slowly than these markets' overall imports. ''Thus sluggish overseas demand is not the only reason behind the slowdown of China's exports -- the appreciation of the renminbi's effective exchange rate also contributed to it,'' he said.
But many Chinese economists are skeptical of this argument, pointing out that a weak currency will keep the country dependent on exports and will keep prices of imported goods high for China's long-suffering consumers. A lower economic growth rate in China is inevitable because the government is clamping down on the country's large real estate sector, and should not be offset by government assistance to exporters through the currency market, said a senior Chinese economist who insisted on anonymity because he did not want to become embroiled in the public debate in China over currency policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (85%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



19 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Regulations

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We disagree with your characterization of the regulatory debate as ''phony'' (''The Phony Regulation Debate,'' editorial, May 27). Even President Obama has acknowledged that the impact of regulations matters. 
There's no denying the rising trend of economically significant rules, or those costing $100 million or more each; they've gone up from 149 in 2001 to 212 in 2011. These costly rules are the product of a flawed regulatory process, which often fails to account for costs and benefits accurately.
The chamber advocates a regulatory system that is based on sound evidence, quality data and a realistic assessment of the overall economic impact of a rule. In fact, we have applauded the recent efforts of President Obama and Cass Sunstein, the information and regulatory affairs administrator, to promote more thorough regulatory analysis.
We don't have to choose between rules that protect public health and safety and rules that promote economic growth and jobs; with the right system, we can have both.
BRUCE JOSTEN Exec. V.P., Government Affairs U.S. Chamber of Commerce Washington, May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



20 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: House Rejects Bill to Ban Sex-Selective Abortions

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House on Thursday rejected a measure that sought to impose fines and prison terms on doctors who perform abortions on women who are trying to select the gender of their offspring -- a practice known as sex-selective abortion.
The legislation, which required two-thirds support to win passage under the fast-track procedure used to bring it to the floor, fell short on a vote of 246 to 168. Republicans did not anticipate that the legislation would pass, but saw it as an opportunity to force Democrats to vote on an issue with appeal among conservatives. 
''Today's vote is a stunning declaration by supporters of abortion that they oppose any restrictions on abortion,'' said Representative John Fleming, Republican of Louisiana.
Democrats accused Republicans of contriving a vote on legislation to address a problem that does not exist.
''I don't support abortion for gender selection,'' said Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado and an opponent of the legislation. ''I don't know anyone who does. Maybe that's because there is no problem in this country of abortion for gender selection.''
Abortion-rights advocates, while pleased with the outcome, slammed Representative Trent Franks, Republican of Arizona, for pushing forward with his bill, known as the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act. ''Many of the bill's supporters have rejected equal pay for women and have tried to slash funding for programs that serve women and children,'' said Nancy Keenan, president of Naral Pro-Choice America.
While there does not appear to be an extensive network of women seeking abortions in order to manage the race or gender makeup of their families, Mallory Quigley, a spokeswoman for the Susan B. Anthony List, an anti-abortion group, cited three studies that she said documented the use of sex-selective abortion, largely among a small number of women from various immigrant groups. ''We're confident there will be future votes and soon, on the issue,'' Ms. Quigley said.
The abortion vote was just one issue on which the two parties engaged in political maneuvering on Thursday. Republicans and Democrats also continued to spar over how to deal with an impending increase in some student loan rates at the end of June. Facing an impasse, Congressional Republicans sent a letter to the White House offering some suggestions for how to pay for an extended lower loan rate.
The letter was sent a few hours after Speaker John. A. Boehner of Ohio told fellow Republicans that he believed that the rate on subsidized undergraduate loans -- currently set at 3.4 percent -- would most likely revert to 6.8 percent on July 1 because he was not sure the House and Senate could come to terms. Mr. Boehner has called the controversy over the potential increase ''phony.''
This set off a mini-firestorm among Democrats. ''Today, Speaker Boehner confirmed to his conference what was already obvious,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader.
In April, the House passed a bill that would freeze the one-year rates at a cost of $5.9 billion by stripping billions from a prevention program within the health care law, something Democrats have said they would not accept. Many Republicans, who do not favor extending the rates, were not interested in passing the bill at all; 13 Democrats, largely moderates, pushed it to passage, when 30 Republicans voted against it.
Senate Democrats failed to clear a procedural vote on their own student loan bill, which would have paid for the extension with a change to a law that allows some wealthy taxpayers to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes by classifying their pay as dividends, not cash income.
On Thursday, Republican leaders from both chambers sent a letter to President Obama offering some new ideas for paying for the extension, culled in part from his own budget.
One would increase current employee contributions to the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System. Another would limit the in-school interest subsidies for subsidized Stafford loans. Republicans also proposed adjusting taxes for Medicaid providers and taking steps to prevent state and local government workers from double dipping on pensions.
All of those ideas are less controversial than the one offered in the original House bill, but each has its detractors. The fight over the student loan bill mirrors a similar skirmish last year over the extension of a payroll tax holiday for workers, in which each party is trying to claim the title of best friend to the middle class.
The White House did not reject the ideas out of hand. ''The president will work with members of both parties to prevent the interest rate from doubling,'' said Matthew Lehrich, a White House spokesman, ''because he understands that seven million American college students and their families don't think that an average $1,000 increase on the typical college student's debt load is 'phony.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Trent Franks sponsored the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act. Representative Diana DeGette opposed the bill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/GETTY IMAGES
 JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); LEGISLATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); CRIMINAL FINES (73%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); STUDENT LOANS (64%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); DIANA DEGETTE (70%); TRENT FRANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



21 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Austerity Agenda

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
LONDON
''The boom, not the slump, is the right time for austerity.'' So declared John Maynard Keynes 75 years ago, and he was right. Even if you have a long-run deficit problem -- and who doesn't? -- slashing spending while the economy is deeply depressed is a self-defeating strategy, because it just deepens the depression.
So why is Britain doing exactly what it shouldn't? Unlike the governments of, say, Spain or California, the British government can borrow freely, at historically low interest rates. So why is that government sharply reducing investment and eliminating hundreds of thousands of public-sector jobs, rather than waiting until the economy is stronger? 
Over the past few days, I've posed that question to a number of supporters of the government of Prime Minister David Cameron, sometimes in private, sometimes on TV. And all these conversations followed the same arc: They began with a bad metaphor and ended with the revelation of ulterior motives.
The bad metaphor -- which you've surely heard many times -- equates the debt problems of a national economy with the debt problems of an individual family. A family that has run up too much debt, the story goes, must tighten its belt. So if Britain, as a whole, has run up too much debt -- which it has, although it's mostly private rather than public debt -- shouldn't it do the same? What's wrong with this comparison?
The answer is that an economy is not like an indebted family. Our debt is mostly money we owe to each other; even more important, our income mostly comes from selling things to each other. Your spending is my income, and my spending is your income.
So what happens if everyone simultaneously slashes spending in an attempt to pay down debt? The answer is that everyone's income falls -- my income falls because you're spending less, and your income falls because I'm spending less. And, as our incomes plunge, our debt problem gets worse, not better.
This isn't a new insight. The great American economist Irving Fisher explained it all the way back in 1933, summarizing what he called ''debt deflation'' with the pithy slogan ''the more the debtors pay, the more they owe.'' Recent events, above all the austerity death spiral in Europe, have dramatically illustrated the truth of Fisher's insight.
And there's a clear moral to this story: When the private sector is frantically trying to pay down debt, the public sector should do the opposite, spending when the private sector can't or won't. By all means, let's balance our budget once the economy has recovered -- but not now. The boom, not the slump, is the right time for austerity.
As I said, this isn't a new insight. So why have so many politicians insisted on pursuing austerity in slump? And why won't they change course even as experience confirms the lessons of theory and history?
Well, that's where it gets interesting. For when you push ''austerians'' on the badness of their metaphor, they almost always retreat to assertions along the lines of: ''But it's essential that we shrink the size of the state.''
Now, these assertions often go along with claims that the economic crisis itself demonstrates the need to shrink government. But that's manifestly not true. Look at the countries in Europe that have weathered the storm best, and near the top of the list you'll find big-government nations like Sweden and Austria.
And if you look, on the other hand, at the nations conservatives admired before the crisis, you'll find George Osborne, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer and the architect of the country's current economic policy, describing Ireland as ''a shining example of the art of the possible.'' Meanwhile, the Cato Institute was praising Iceland's low taxes and hoping that other industrial nations ''will learn from Iceland's success.''
So the austerity drive in Britain isn't really about debt and deficits at all; it's about using deficit panic as an excuse to dismantle social programs. And this is, of course, exactly the same thing that has been happening in America.
In fairness to Britain's conservatives, they aren't quite as crude as their American counterparts. They don't rail against the evils of deficits in one breath, then demand huge tax cuts for the wealthy in the next (although the Cameron government has, in fact, significantly cut the top tax rate). And, in general, they seem less determined than America's right to aid the rich and punish the poor. Still, the direction of policy is the same -- and so is the fundamental insincerity of the calls for austerity.
The big question here is whether the evident failure of austerity to produce an economic recovery will lead to a ''Plan B.'' Maybe. But my guess is that even if such a plan is announced, it won't amount to much. For economic recovery was never the point; the drive for austerity was about using the crisis, not solving it. And it still is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



22 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Two Locations Chosen to Annoy the Other Side

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Ashley Parker reported from Fremont, Calif., and Michael D. Shear from Washington.

 BODY:
FREMONT, Calif. -- The presidential campaigns charged across enemy lines on both coasts Thursday, holding dueling events -- devised for maximum intrigue -- at a solar plant and a state Capitol they said symbolized the weaknesses of their opponents.
In California, Mitt Romney stood in front of Solyndra, a failed solar company that received $528 million in federal loan guarantees, declaring it to be ''a symbol of gross waste'' and an example of President Obama's poor stewardship of a shaky economy. 
More than 3,000 miles away, Mr. Obama's top strategist, David Axelrod, stood with local Democrats on the steps of the Massachusetts Statehouse to accuse Mr. Romney of running a ''shell game'' with state money during his tenure as governor.
Together, the events displayed the boldness of both presidential campaigns and the surprising early intensity with which the battle for the White House will be waged throughout the summer. Neither side seems willing to let an attack go by without a swift, hard counterpunch.
Both campaigns had shrouded in secrecy their incursions into the other's territory. Democrats refused to confirm Mr. Axelrod's presence in Boston until early Thursday. Mr. Romney's campaign required reporters to gather at a distant parking lot to board a bus for an undisclosed location, suggesting ominously that Mr. Obama's administration might have tried to stop the event.
A Romney adviser explained that the campaign was worried that if the Obama administration knew where Mr. Romney was headed, officials would do everything possible to try to prevent Mr. Romney from holding his event at the shuttered factory.
''I think there are people who don't want to see this event occur, don't want to have questions asked about this particular investment,'' Mr. Romney told reporters. He and his aides declined to specify what Mr. Obama's White House might have done to stop it.
Aides to Mr. Obama said they chose Mr. Axelrod to be the featured speaker at their news conference in Boston to send a signal of their intent to focus on Mr. Romney's record in the state. An aide said that Thursday was the start of a ''sustained five-month campaign'' to focus on Mr. Romney's governorship.
But Mr. Axelrod quickly became a lighting rod instead.
His plans leaked on Twitter on Wednesday night, giving Republicans time to organize a loud, rowdy presence at the Statehouse. Mr. Axelrod called the crowd part of the ''great pageant of democracy,'' but he was largely drowned out by boos.
With cameras rolling, the Republican hecklers yelled ''We Want Mitt!'' and ''Broken Record!'' and held signs that said ''Go Back to Chicago!'' At one point, Mr. Axelrod responded to unclear chants from the protesters, saying, ''You can't handle the truth, my friend. You can't handle the truth.''
That truth, according to Mr. Axelrod, is that Mr. Romney's experience as governor of Massachusetts does not provide a record on which to base a presidential career. He offered a ream of negative statistics about Mr. Romney's tenure in the state. He said the state was 47th in job creation under Mr. Romney and said that government grew ''at a clip of 6.5 percent.''
''This may work in the realm of leveraged buyouts and quick scores,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''It may work in that world, but it's not how you build a future.''
Aides to Mr. Obama said surrogates from Massachusetts would soon fan across battleground states for the campaign to talk about his record. The effort follows the campaign's criticism of Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain Capital, the private equity firm he helped found and ran for more than a decade.
For their part, senior officials with Mr. Romney's campaign said that criticizing Mr. Obama over Solyndra would help deflect attention from the Bain attacks.
Mr. Romney and the Republican National Committee coordinated their messages this week, aiming to counter Mr. Obama's attacks on Bain with accusations that the president has poorly invested public money in speculative ventures like Solyndra.
''It's a symbol not of success but of failure,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I'm afraid the reason that the stimulus has been unsuccessful, that the turnaround has taken so long to occur, that the recovery has been tepid, is that the president fails to understand the basic nature of free enterprise in America.''
Standing in front of the abandoned but still gleaming Solyndra building, Mr. Romney mocked what he called the excesses of ''the Taj Mahal of corporate headquarters.'' He said the company's failure despite federal help was damaging for free enterprise.
''You probably also heard that inside there are showers that have LCD displays that tell what the temperatures are of the shower water,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And the robots inside actually provide Disney music tunes.''
Mr. Romney's event came as Mr. Obama was presiding over the ultimate in bipartisanship: the unveiling of the official portrait of his predecessor, George W. Bush, and the former first lady, Laura Bush.
But if Mr. Obama was not in attack mode on Thursday, his campaign was, as Mr. Axelrod, with several local Democratic officials, sought to undermine Mr. Romney's experience as the chief executive of Massachusetts.
Joseph A. Curtatone, the mayor of Somerville, warned that ''as governor, Mitt Romney's approach was all about shifting costs. The story he's telling now about his time as governor? Hey! It just doesn't add up.''
Mr. Curtatone was heckled, too; one supporter of Mr. Romney blew bubbles toward the Democrats, prompting Mr. Curtatone to say, ''That's a hell of a lot better than the smoke Mitt Romney blew at us in Massachusetts.''
Mr. Romney was asked about the hecklers, some of whom included his own staff members who attended the Democratic event. He said he saw no reason for either side to pull its punches.
''At some point you say, you know what, sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,'' Mr. Romney said, suggesting that Democrats have heckled his campaign. ''If they're going to be heckling us, why, we're not going to sit back and play by very different rules.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney in California, at the headquarters of Solyndra, a failed solar company that got millions in federal loan guarantees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David Axelrod, a strategist for President Obama, went to the Massachusetts Statehouse to criticize Mr. Romney's record as governor, but was met by a rowdy group of Romney supporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



23 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3283 words

HEADLINE: Obama Order Sped Up Wave Of Cyberattacks Against Iran

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER. 
This article is adapted from ''Confront and Conceal: , Obama's Secret Wars and Surprising Use of American Power,'' to be published by Crown on Tuesday.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- From his first months in office, President Obama secretly ordered increasingly sophisticated attacks on the computer systems that run Iran's main nuclear enrichment facilities, significantly expanding America's first sustained use of cyberweapons, according to participants in the program.
Mr. Obama decided to accelerate the attacks -- begun in the Bush administration and code-named Olympic Games -- even after an element of the program accidentally became public in the summer of 2010 because of a programming error that allowed it to escape Iran's Natanz plant and sent it around the world on the Internet. Computer security experts who began studying the worm, which had been developed by the United States and Israel, gave it a name: Stuxnet.
At a tense meeting in the White House Situation Room within days of the worm's ''escape,'' Mr. Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the director of the Central Intelligence Agency at the time, Leon E. Panetta, considered whether America's most ambitious attempt to slow the progress of Iran's nuclear efforts had been fatally compromised.
''Should we shut this thing down?'' Mr. Obama asked, according to members of the president's national security team who were in the room. 
Told it was unclear how much the Iranians knew about the code, and offered evidence that it was still causing havoc, Mr. Obama decided that the cyberattacks should proceed. In the following weeks, the Natanz plant was hit by a newer version of the computer worm, and then another after that. The last of that series of attacks, a few weeks after Stuxnet was detected around the world, temporarily took out nearly 1,000 of the 5,000 centrifuges Iran had spinning at the time to purify uranium.
This account of the American and Israeli effort to undermine the Iranian nuclear program is based on interviews over the past 18 months with current and former American, European and Israeli officials involved in the program, as well as a range of outside experts. None would allow their names to be used because the effort remains highly classified, and parts of it continue to this day.
These officials gave differing assessments of how successful the sabotage program was in slowing Iran's progress toward developing the ability to build nuclear weapons. Internal Obama administration estimates say the effort was set back by 18 months to two years, but some experts inside and outside the government are more skeptical, noting that Iran's enrichment levels have steadily recovered, giving the country enough fuel today for five or more weapons, with additional enrichment.
Whether Iran is still trying to design and build a weapon is in dispute. The most recent United States intelligence estimate concludes that Iran suspended major parts of its weaponization effort after 2003, though there is evidence that some remnants of it continue.
Iran initially denied that its enrichment facilities had been hit by Stuxnet, then said it had found the worm and contained it. Last year, the nation announced that it had begun its own military cyberunit, and Brig. Gen. Gholamreza Jalali, the head of Iran's Passive Defense Organization, said that the Iranian military was prepared ''to fight our enemies'' in ''cyberspace and Internet warfare.'' But there has been scant evidence that it has begun to strike back.
The United States government only recently acknowledged developing cyberweapons, and it has never admitted using them. There have been reports of one-time attacks against personal computers used by members of Al Qaeda, and of contemplated attacks against the computers that run air defense systems, including during the NATO-led air attack on Libya last year. But Olympic Games was of an entirely different type and sophistication.
It appears to be the first time the United States has repeatedly used cyberweapons to cripple another country's infrastructure, achieving, with computer code, what until then could be accomplished only by bombing a country or sending in agents to plant explosives. The code itself is 50 times as big as the typical computer worm, Carey Nachenberg, a vice president of Symantec, one of the many groups that have dissected the code, said at a symposium at Stanford University in April. Those forensic investigations into the inner workings of the code, while picking apart how it worked, came to no conclusions about who was responsible.
A similar process is now under way to figure out the origins of another cyberweapon called Flame that was recently discovered to have attacked the computers of Iranian officials, sweeping up information from those machines. But the computer code appears to be at least five years old, and American officials say that it was not part of Olympic Games. They have declined to say whether the United States was responsible for the Flame attack.
Mr. Obama, according to participants in the many Situation Room meetings on Olympic Games, was acutely aware that with every attack he was pushing the United States into new territory, much as his predecessors had with the first use of atomic weapons in the 1940s, of intercontinental missiles in the 1950s and of drones in the past decade. He repeatedly expressed concerns that any American acknowledgment that it was using cyberweapons -- even under the most careful and limited circumstances -- could enable other countries, terrorists or hackers to justify their own attacks.
''We discussed the irony, more than once,'' one of his aides said. Another said that the administration was resistant to developing a ''grand theory for a weapon whose possibilities they were still discovering.'' Yet Mr. Obama concluded that when it came to stopping Iran, the United States had no other choice.
If Olympic Games failed, he told aides, there would be no time for sanctions and diplomacy with Iran to work. Israel could carry out a conventional military attack, prompting a conflict that could spread throughout the region.
A Bush Initiative
The impetus for Olympic Games dates from 2006, when President George W. Bush saw few good options in dealing with Iran. At the time, America's European allies were divided about the cost that imposing sanctions on Iran would have on their own economies. Having falsely accused Saddam Hussein of reconstituting his nuclear program in Iraq, Mr. Bush had little credibility in publicly discussing another nation's nuclear ambitions. The Iranians seemed to sense his vulnerability, and, frustrated by negotiations, they resumed enriching uranium at an underground site at Natanz, one whose existence had been exposed just three years before.
Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, took reporters on a tour of the plant and described grand ambitions to install upward of 50,000 centrifuges. For a country with only one nuclear power reactor -- whose fuel comes from Russia -- to say that it needed fuel for its civilian nuclear program seemed dubious to Bush administration officials. They feared that the fuel could be used in another way besides providing power: to create a stockpile that could later be enriched to bomb-grade material if the Iranians made a political decision to do so.
Hawks in the Bush administration like Vice President Dick Cheney urged Mr. Bush to consider a military strike against the Iranian nuclear facilities before they could produce fuel suitable for a weapon. Several times, the administration reviewed military options and concluded that they would only further inflame a region already at war, and would have uncertain results.
For years the C.I.A. had introduced faulty parts and designs into Iran's systems -- even tinkering with imported power supplies so that they would blow up -- but the sabotage had had relatively little effect. General James E. Cartwright, who had established a small cyberoperation inside the United States Strategic Command, which is responsible for many of America's nuclear forces, joined intelligence officials in presenting a radical new idea to Mr. Bush and his national security team. It involved a far more sophisticated cyberweapon than the United States had designed before.
The goal was to gain access to the Natanz plant's industrial computer controls. That required leaping the electronic moat that cut the Natanz plant off from the Internet -- called the air gap, because it physically separates the facility from the outside world. The computer code would invade the specialized computers that command the centrifuges.
The first stage in the effort was to develop a bit of computer code called a beacon that could be inserted into the computers, which were made by the German company Siemens and an Iranian manufacturer, to map their operations. The idea was to draw the equivalent of an electrical blueprint of the Natanz plant, to understand how the computers control the giant silvery centrifuges that spin at tremendous speeds. The connections were complex, and unless every circuit was understood, efforts to seize control of the centrifuges could fail.
Eventually the beacon would have to ''phone home'' -- literally send a message back to the headquarters of the National Security Agency that would describe the structure and daily rhythms of the enrichment plant. Expectations for the plan were low; one participant said the goal was simply to ''throw a little sand in the gears'' and buy some time. Mr. Bush was skeptical, but lacking other options, he authorized the effort.
Breakthrough, Aided by Israel
It took months for the beacons to do their work and report home, complete with maps of the electronic directories of the controllers and what amounted to blueprints of how they were connected to the centrifuges deep underground.
Then the N.S.A. and a secret Israeli unit respected by American intelligence officials for its cyberskills set to work developing the enormously complex computer worm that would become the attacker from within.
The unusually tight collaboration with Israel was driven by two imperatives. Israel's Unit 8200, a part of its military, had technical expertise that rivaled the N.S.A.'s, and the Israelis had deep intelligence about operations at Natanz that would be vital to making the cyberattack a success. But American officials had another interest, to dissuade the Israelis from carrying out their own pre-emptive strike against the Iranian nuclear facilities. To do that, the Israelis would have to be convinced that the new line of attack was working. The only way to convince them, several officials said in interviews, was to have them deeply involved in every aspect of the program.
Soon the two countries had developed a complex worm that the Americans called ''the bug.'' But the bug needed to be tested. So, under enormous secrecy, the United States began building replicas of Iran's P-1 centrifuges, an aging, unreliable design that Iran purchased from Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani nuclear chief who had begun selling fuel-making technology on the black market. Fortunately for the United States, it already owned some P-1s, thanks to the Libyan dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
When Colonel Qaddafi gave up his nuclear weapons program in 2003, he turned over the centrifuges he had bought from the Pakistani nuclear ring, and they were placed in storage at a weapons laboratory in Tennessee. The military and intelligence officials overseeing Olympic Games borrowed some for what they termed ''destructive testing,'' essentially building a virtual replica of Natanz, but spreading the test over several of the Energy Department's national laboratories to keep even the most trusted nuclear workers from figuring out what was afoot.
Those first small-scale tests were surprisingly successful: the bug invaded the computers, lurking for days or weeks, before sending instructions to speed them up or slow them down so suddenly that their delicate parts, spinning at supersonic speeds, self-destructed. After several false starts, it worked. One day, toward the end of Mr. Bush's term, the rubble of a centrifuge was spread out on the conference table in the Situation Room, proof of the potential power of a cyberweapon. The worm was declared ready to test against the real target: Iran's underground enrichment plant.
''Previous cyberattacks had effects limited to other computers,'' Michael V. Hayden, the former chief of the C.I.A., said, declining to describe what he knew of these attacks when he was in office. ''This is the first attack of a major nature in which a cyberattack was used to effect physical destruction,'' rather than just slow another computer, or hack into it to steal data.
''Somebody crossed the Rubicon,'' he said.
Getting the worm into Natanz, however, was no easy trick. The United States and Israel would have to rely on engineers, maintenance workers and others -- both spies and unwitting accomplices -- with physical access to the plant. ''That was our holy grail,'' one of the architects of the plan said. ''It turns out there is always an idiot around who doesn't think much about the thumb drive in their hand.''
In fact, thumb drives turned out to be critical in spreading the first variants of the computer worm; later, more sophisticated methods were developed to deliver the malicious code.
The first attacks were small, and when the centrifuges began spinning out of control in 2008, the Iranians were mystified about the cause, according to intercepts that the United States later picked up. ''The thinking was that the Iranians would blame bad parts, or bad engineering, or just incompetence,'' one of the architects of the early attack said.
The Iranians were confused partly because no two attacks were exactly alike. Moreover, the code would lurk inside the plant for weeks, recording normal operations; when it attacked, it sent signals to the Natanz control room indicating that everything downstairs was operating normally. ''This may have been the most brilliant part of the code,'' one American official said.
Later, word circulated through the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Vienna-based nuclear watchdog, that the Iranians had grown so distrustful of their own instruments that they had assigned people to sit in the plant and radio back what they saw.
''The intent was that the failures should make them feel they were stupid, which is what happened,'' the participant in the attacks said. When a few centrifuges failed, the Iranians would close down whole ''stands'' that linked 164 machines, looking for signs of sabotage in all of them. ''They overreacted,'' one official said. ''We soon discovered they fired people.''
Imagery recovered by nuclear inspectors from cameras at Natanz -- which the nuclear agency uses to keep track of what happens between visits -- showed the results. There was some evidence of wreckage, but it was clear that the Iranians had also carted away centrifuges that had previously appeared to be working well.
But by the time Mr. Bush left office, no wholesale destruction had been accomplished. Meeting with Mr. Obama in the White House days before his inauguration, Mr. Bush urged him to preserve two classified programs, Olympic Games and the drone program in Pakistan. Mr. Obama took Mr. Bush's advice.
The Stuxnet Surprise
Mr. Obama came to office with an interest in cyberissues, but he had discussed them during the campaign mostly in terms of threats to personal privacy and the risks to infrastructure like the electrical grid and the air traffic control system. He commissioned a major study on how to improve America's defenses and announced it with great fanfare in the East Room.
What he did not say then was that he was also learning the arts of cyberwar. The architects of Olympic Games would meet him in the Situation Room, often with what they called the ''horse blanket,'' a giant foldout schematic diagram of Iran's nuclear production facilities. Mr. Obama authorized the attacks to continue, and every few weeks -- certainly after a major attack -- he would get updates and authorize the next step. Sometimes it was a strike riskier and bolder than what had been tried previously.
''From his first days in office, he was deep into every step in slowing the Iranian program -- the diplomacy, the sanctions, every major decision,'' a senior administration official said. ''And it's safe to say that whatever other activity might have been under way was no exception to that rule.''
But the good luck did not last. In the summer of 2010, shortly after a new variant of the worm had been sent into Natanz, it became clear that the worm, which was never supposed to leave the Natanz machines, had broken free, like a zoo animal that found the keys to the cage. It fell to Mr. Panetta and two other crucial players in Olympic Games -- General Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Michael J. Morell, the deputy director of the C.I.A. -- to break the news to Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden.
An error in the code, they said, had led it to spread to an engineer's computer when it was hooked up to the centrifuges. When the engineer left Natanz and connected the computer to the Internet, the American- and Israeli-made bug failed to recognize that its environment had changed. It began replicating itself all around the world. Suddenly, the code was exposed, though its intent would not be clear, at least to ordinary computer users.
''We think there was a modification done by the Israelis,'' one of the briefers told the president, ''and we don't know if we were part of that activity.''
Mr. Obama, according to officials in the room, asked a series of questions, fearful that the code could do damage outside the plant. The answers came back in hedged terms. Mr. Biden fumed. ''It's got to be the Israelis,'' he said. ''They went too far.''
In fact, both the Israelis and the Americans had been aiming for a particular part of the centrifuge plant, a critical area whose loss, they had concluded, would set the Iranians back considerably. It is unclear who introduced the programming error.
The question facing Mr. Obama was whether the rest of Olympic Games was in jeopardy, now that a variant of the bug was replicating itself ''in the wild,'' where computer security experts can dissect it and figure out its purpose.
''I don't think we have enough information,'' Mr. Obama told the group that day, according to the officials. But in the meantime, he ordered that the cyberattacks continue. They were his best hope of disrupting the Iranian nuclear program unless economic sanctions began to bite harder and reduced Iran's oil revenues.
Within a week, another version of the bug brought down just under 1,000 centrifuges. Olympic Games was still on.
A Weapon's Uncertain Future
American cyberattacks are not limited to Iran, but the focus of attention, as one administration official put it, ''has been overwhelmingly on one country.'' There is no reason to believe that will remain the case for long. Some officials question why the same techniques have not been used more aggressively against North Korea. Others see chances to disrupt Chinese military plans, forces in Syria on the way to suppress the uprising there, and Qaeda operations around the world. ''We've considered a lot more attacks than we have gone ahead with,'' one former intelligence official said.
Mr. Obama has repeatedly told his aides that there are risks to using -- and particularly to overusing -- the weapon. In fact, no country's infrastructure is more dependent on computer systems, and thus more vulnerable to attack, than that of the United States. It is only a matter of time, most experts believe, before it becomes the target of the same kind of weapon that the Americans have used, secretly, against Iran.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iran's nuclear enrichment facility at Natanz, which President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, right, visited in 2007. A computer worm temporarily disabled 1,000 centrifuges, officials said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
IRANIAN TELEVISION, VIA REUTERS
IRAN PRESIDENCY OFFICE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A12) GRAPHICS: How a Secret Cyberwar Program Worked: Programmers at the National Security Agency and in the Israeli military created a series of worms to attack the computers that control Iran's nuclear enrichment center at Natanz. The attacks were repeated for several years, and each time the programs varied to make them difficult to detect. One of the variants escaped from Natanz and became public. (GRAPHICS BY GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHART: From Inception to a Leak: 2006: Iran resumes uranium enrichment at Natanz after negotiations with European and American officials flounder. United States military and intelligence officials propose a top-secret cyberwar program against Iran's nuclear enrichment program.
2007: The program begins in earnest, eventually known by the code name Olympic Games. A virtual replica of the Natanz plant is built at American national laboratories. The United States joins Israel in developing a sophisticated computer worm.
2008: Centrifuges begin crashing at Natanz, the crown jewel of the Iranian nuclear program. Engineers at the plant have no clue that the facility is under attack. The initial breakdowns are designed to seem like small random accidents, with code variations that prompt different breakdowns.
2009: Accounts that President Bush approved new ways to undermine the Iranian program, including cyberattacks, appear just as his administration is leaving office. In a private meeting, Mr. Bush urges President-elect Obama to continue Olympic Games, telling him the program could mean the difference between peace and war. Mr. Obama begins reviewing the plans, and he is given updates every few weeks with the results of attacks.
Spring 2010: The National Security Agency and Israel's secretive Unit 8200 decide to swing for the fences. They target a critical array of centrifuges composed of nearly 1,000 machines, whose failure would be a huge setback to Iran. A special version of the computer worm is developed, with the Israelis putting the finishing touches on the program.
Summer 2010: The creators of the bug realize that copies of the worm have escaped Natanz and are available on the Internet, where they are replicating quickly. In a few weeks, articles appear in the technical press, and then in mainstream newspapers, about a mysterious new computer worm carried on USB keys that exploits a hole in the Windows operating system. The worm is named Stuxnet. Obama decides not to kill the program, and a subsequent attack takes out nearly 1,000 Iranian centrifuges, nearly a fifth of those operating.
Late 2010-11: After a dip in 2010, Iranian production recovers. The Untied States estimates that Olympic Games delayed Iran's progress toward a weapons capability by a year and a half or two years. Others dispute the estimate, saying it overstates the effect.
 2011-12: With the program still running, intelligence agencies in the United States and Israel seek out new targets that could further slow Iran's progress. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); EVIDENCE (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); OLYMPICS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



24 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FULL SWING; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Iowa House Battle Draws Speakers Present and Past

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- The Champagne glasses ceased clinking, and for a moment, the plate of locally produced, thinly sliced prosciutto went untouched, as Representative Leonard L. Boswell took the floor at a cozy fund-raising event to plead his case for cash.
''I'm actually running against three people,'' said Mr. Boswell, a Democrat, making an oft-repeated appeal for help in his matchup against Representative Tom Latham, a Republican with whom he has served in the House on behalf of Iowa for nearly two decades.
''There's Latham, and I'm running against the speaker,'' he said, referring to Speaker John A. Boehner, one of Mr. Latham's closest friends. ''The third person is Karl Rove.''
Iowa lost a House seat after the 2010 census, leaving these two veteran incumbents facing off in a new district made up of a nearly equal number of Republican, Democratic and independent voters in one of the most closely watched races in the country. 
But perhaps no one is watching more closely than Mr. Boehner. He spent a long Memorial Day weekend in Iowa bolstering his compatriot, helping raise the money he knows Mr. Latham, whom he refers to as ''my bud,'' will need to keep his job. While outside groups headed by the likes of Mr. Rove, the Republican operative, are sure to dump hundreds of thousands of dollars into this race, Mr. Boehner is the star.
''Without question,'' Mr. Boehner said in an interview. ''He's my friend, and I'd do anything I can to help him.''
In the new Third District of Iowa, Mr. Boswell, 78, enjoys some significant advantages: he already represents Polk County, which includes Des Moines, and a few other parts adding up to roughly 60 percent of the new district. But Mr. Latham, 63, is winning at the bank, in no small part with the help of Mr. Boehner, who is using the full force of his position and popularity among the party faithful, shaking hands, scarfing eggs and pressing donors to dig deep.
At the very moment Tuesday night that Mr. Boswell was with about 25 supporters who had paid about $150 each to visit with him at the home of owners of a successful cured meat business, Mr. Boehner was with Mr. Latham across town at a $5,000-a-head fund-raiser at the golf-course-adjacent home of a wealthy donor. About 60 people reveled with the group, which included the professional golfer Fuzzy Zoeller.
The speaker also spent the morning helping Mr. Latham raise money at a breakfast in nearby Johnston, where people paid $100 to hear the two opine on the nation's debt crisis and make Mr. Latham's case to new voters. ''There was a sense of urgency,'' said David Greenspon, a local businessman who attended.
Mr. Latham is one of many beneficiaries of the fund-raising prowess of Mr. Boehner. The speaker has traveled the country this spring filling the coffers of Republican candidates, surpassing his most prodigious rival, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader and former speaker, raising over $70 million to her $43 million since early 2011.
But perhaps nowhere is Mr. Boehner's influence as quantifiable as in the House race here. As of May 16, Mr. Boswell had raised $976,926, compared with Mr. Latham's $2.2 million. Mr. Latham had received nearly $1.5 million from political action committees active in House races, compared with $486,750 at the same time two years ago. Mr. Boswell had received $522,325 from PACs, compared with $610,357 last cycle.
Put another way, Mr. Boswell has raised less PAC money this election, while Mr. Latham has nearly tripled his PAC haul.
Mr. Boswell says the reason for this is that Mr. Boehner's team has leaned on Washington-savvy donors who have given to him in the past -- often along with his Republican opponent -- to leave him high and dry.
''We've got it from pretty good sources that that is putting some restraint on my ability to raise money back in Washington,'' he told his fund-raiser guests. (Mr. Boehner's team dismisses this accusation: ''Absurd,'' said Cory Fritz, a spokesman.)
Mr. Boehner and Mr. Latham met before Mr. Latham was first elected in 1994 and became fast friends while serving on the Agriculture Committee, lighting up together in the smoking room and eventually at Trattoria Alberto, an Italian restaurant on Capitol Hill that both men fancy.
''I think we have a lot of similarities,'' Mr. Latham said. ''We both came out of a small-business background; we both have a couple of daughters the same age.'' Mr. Boehner also relies on Mr. Latham to keep him abreast of worrisome trends within his conference, and occasionally to make his case for him.
Raising money is no member's favorite activity. ''I don't know of anyone that really enjoys asking for people to contribute,'' Mr. Latham said, conceding that it is not fun asking people to choose sides, though he feels confident that he can win most of those calls. Mr. Boswell is equally demur, and has frustrated some Democratic political operatives who want him to increase his appeals for help.
Democrats have been quick to seize on the relationship between Mr. Latham and the speaker, portraying the two as partners in efforts to dismantle Medicare among other things.
Republicans have hit back, pointing out that Ms. Pelosi is an ally of Mr. Boswell's; she has been to Iowa once for him already this cycle, and raised money for him at a fund-raiser over the state border in Omaha.
''I have a professional relationship with Pelosi,'' Mr. Boswell said. ''We don't smoke together, we don't have dinners together. For the most part I agree with what she does, and she stood by me when we had the floods here. She is welcome to come back.''
Mr. Latham's staff and local Republicans have made endless fun of the Omaha event, pointing out that Mr. Latham was proud to welcome Mr. Boehner to his home state. Perhaps, but Mr. Boehner and Mr. Latham did not allow the media into his events; at the breakfast meeting, the two slid in a side door of the inn and slid out the same way into a waiting S.U.V., dodging tree branches in their hasty escape to elude the waiting press.
Mr. Boehner, fresh off a long week of raising money for other candidates and the Republican National Committee, flew into Iowa last Sunday, where his wife, Debbie, joined him for a weekend of family time, dinners out and golfing with Mr. Latham and his wife, Kathy. ''It was good to spend some quiet time,'' Mr. Latham said, when they were not raising money.
''I think any time you can have the speaker in your district,'' Mr. Latham said, ''he is a draw, because people love to meet him, he loves to visit with people. It is important to have him in there, I think, because it raises the visual level of the campaign.''
In Full Swing: Articles in this series look at Iowa's newly redrawn Third Congressional District and a fight by two veteran House members to stay in power.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Speaker John A. Boehner and Representative Tom Latham, Republicans
right, Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Leonard L. Boswell, Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ANDREA MELENDEZ/DES MOINES REGISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEATS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); GOLF (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); DEBT CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: TOM LATHAM (90%); LEONARD L BOSWELL (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); KARL ROVE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (89%) IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



25 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Poor-Mouthing Britain

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Much more potential than the official line says. 

 BODY:
I wrote a few days agoabout the widespread belief here in the UK that there has somehow been a dramatic collapse in the economy's potential. Martin Wolf has much more, plus a link to a very important paper by Martin and Rowthorn (pdf) that, as I read it (and Wolf too) very effectively debunks that belief.
There's a lot of technical detail, but as I see it the main point is that we see a sharp drop in measured British productivity that could be the result either of some mysterious structural shift or the much more ordinary notion that many firms have held on to "overhead" labor in the face of what they expect to be only a temporary fall in sales. And the data just don't support any of the proposed explanations of the supposed structural shift.
Specifically, the popular line here is that it's the loss of all those high-value jobs in finance, which sounds plausible until you do the arithmetic and find that it's way, way too small. This bears a strong family resemblance to stories about alleged structural unemployment in the US that focus on the shift out of construction; again, it sounds good until you do the numbers and find that it's tiny.
This matters, a lot. If Britain has not experienced a mysterious productivity collapse, it is suffering much more than acknowledged from a lack of effective demand -- and also has a much smaller underlying budget problem than the government claims. The British may be poor-mouthing their economy -- and in so doing creating a self-fulfilling prophecy, in which excessive pessimism about potential leads to policies that in fact impoverish the nation.
Do I know for sure that this is the truth? No. But it looks more plausible than the official line. And surely policy should take into account not just the so far purely hypothetical risk of a loss of confidence by the bond market, but also the very real chance that vast amounts of potential production, not to mention the future, is being squandered through excessive pessimism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); BONDS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



26 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: How I Became @SmallBizLady

BYLINE: MELINDA F. EMERSON


HIGHLIGHT: Introducing Melinda Emerson, who will be blogging about social media. 

 BODY:
I am an accidental business coach. I have taken a very serendipitous route to writing for The New York Times. I began my professional journey out of college as a broadcast journalist. After nearly half a dozen years of producing newscasts and writing about murders and fires -- working too many overnights and weekends -- I decided that I wanted to do more with my life and I decided that starting my own business was the way to go. I was blissfully ignorant of the challenges I would face.
Six years of broadcast experience led me to believe I could run a production company, and that is where my life in business began. My inspiration and support came from family and friends but the spark to start a production company was ignited by Oprah Winfrey. I was in college when she started Harpo Productions, which gave me the courage to believe that one day I might own my own production company as well. Back then, I even came up with the name of Quintessence Multimedia because quintessence means the perfect embodiment of something, and I wanted to be recognized as the best in my industry.
I started the business in 1998 while I was still working in television. I had more ambition than knowledge but it never occurred to me that I wouldn't succeed. Eager to learn some basic business practices, I did what any journalist would do: I treated learning to run a business as if it were an in-depth investigation. The first thing I did was to work two days a week for someone else's production company. This was very helpful, because while I knew how to craft a video story, I had no idea how to price a job or budget edit time to make a profit. There were opportunities to learn many expensive lessons, but the most important one was this: My first order of business had better be learning what I didn't know about business. 
In addition to this hands-on experience, I took classes on management, business plans and leadership, including programs offered by the State of Pennsylvania, the Small Business Administration, the National Urban League, the University of Virginia, Dartmouth and Harvard. I continue to avail myself of any opportunities and resources that will help me build my business education.
About four years into running my business, I started making strides. Quintessence landed major contracts with Fortune 500 clients, including Verizon, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, and GlaxoSmithKline. My company was name No. 29 on a list of the fastest growing small businesses in the Philadelphia region. We began winning business awards, and we were invited to speak on panels and conduct workshops on marketing and how to grow a business.
And my friends started calling to ask for advice in conversations that went something like this, "Girl, I want to be like you. I want to quit my job today. Melinda please, tell me the formula to start a small business." Then I would look at the phone, start laughing and say, "Girl, you love Prada. You can't quit your job. Go out to your car and do some scream therapy and get back to work. I must get back to work myself. Later."
All of a sudden, as my exposure and contacts grew, more people started to call to ask for help starting a business. I thought it might be time to write down my thoughts to make them easier to share. In 2006, I wrote a report, "44 Things to Do Before Going Into Business," that I gave away on my Web site. I chose 44 things because I didn't want people to think it was too easy, and I didn't want to overwhelm them with 100 things. To my surprise, this little 12-page report went viral. I was asked to give interviews about it. I was invited to speak at a corporate women's leadership conference, and I found out the woman sitting next to me had been paid $10,000 to appear and the conference had purchased 300 copies of her book to give to all attendees. I was there for a ham sandwich, but a new business idea formed in my mind, MFE Consulting. I also befriended this woman who gave me some insight on paid professional speaking. She told me about the National Speakers Association and made me aware of the fact that it's hard to be taken seriously as an expert until you write a book. Note: your No. 1 job as an entrepreneur is to evolve. Always keep your mind open mind to opportunities!
That fall I took her advice and started working on my book, "Become Your Own Boss in 12 Months" (Adams Media). The book was submitted to my publisher in the fall of 2008, but because of the bad economy, the publication date was pushed out to March of 2010. A friend suggested that I read a book on building an author platform, so that I could build an audience for my coming book. In it, I learned two things: one, publishers were not interested in making you famous, they were interested in capitalizing on the fame you create for yourself. And two, social media was going to be the wave of the future -- and I had better get on it in a major way.
A mentor introduced me to a publicist who specialized in social media marketing. I hired her to create my Twitter strategy. Once I had learned the ropes, the day came for me to set up my Twitter account. Well that was fine, except that my name was taken. I was astounded. I have met other Melindas but other Melinda Emersons? Then we looked on Facebook where I learned there were seven Melinda Emersons. The big issue was, "What will I use for a Twitter name?" We kicked around a few ideas and then settled on a name that would tell people what I do instantly. Twitter later became the platform that changed my life -- a story for another day -- and that's how I became @SmallBizLady.

        
Why Would a Plumber Need Social Media?
        
Solving 3 Marketing Problems with One Online Tool
        
A Tool to Help Business Owners Struggling With Social Media
        
Small Businesses That Understand Social Media
        
Should Every Business Invest in Social Media?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (79%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (79%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%) marketing; social media; Twitter; Small Business; Social Networking (Internet); On Social Media

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (51%); GSK (LSE) (51%); BIOC (EGX) (51%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



27 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: How Close Are You to Your Parents?

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Student Opinion | Are you friends with your parents? Do you think intense parental support in adulthood is damaging, or do you think it is healthy and beneficial? 

 BODY:
In the Opinion piece "You Can Go Home Again," Karen L. Fingerman and Frank F. Furstenberg write:
Our research shows that the closer bonds between young adults and their parents should be celebrated, and do not necessarily compromise the independence of the next generation.
Grown children benefit greatly from parental help. Young adults who received financial, practical and emotional support from their parents reported clearer life goals and more satisfaction than young adults who received less parental support. This support ranged from room and board to making a car available, to parents' listening to their son or daughter talk about the day.
Twenty-five years ago, young people sought advice and help from nave peers. Today's young adults may be savvier than their predecessors; they receive advice and help from middle-aged adults with greater life experience and material resources to offer.
This relationship has been evolving over the last generation.
In 1986, about half of parents reported that they had spoken with a grown child in the past week. In 2008, 87 percent said they had. In 1988, less than half of parents gave advice to a grown child in the past month, and fewer than one in three had provided any hands-on help. Recent data show that nearly 90 percent of parents give advice and 70 percent provide some type of practical assistance every month.
It turns out that many parents and children want this close contact. We first observed a shift in this relationship in 1999, when the economy was booming. Even before the cellphone era, many 20-something women talked with their mothers several times a week. They discussed boyfriend problems, classes and plans for the future. They brought home their laundry, went shopping with their mothers and even pronounced their mothers (and sometimes their fathers) their "best friends." Their descriptions might have seemed cloying, yet the mothers involved said that they were thrilled. They took pride in their daughters and reveled in the intimacy.
Students: Tell us how much you recognize your own relationship with a parent or both parents in the description above. How close are you in general? How much contact do you think you will have when you're no longer living at home? Would you consider moving back in right after college? How do your parents support you, financially or emotionally? Is enforcing discipline or having a supportive relationship more important in a parent-child relationship? Do you think, like some mentioned in this piece, that "intense parental support in adulthood as a sign of damaging over-involvement," or do you agree with the Op-Ed authors that support from parents is healthy and beneficial?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
What Do You Hope to Be Doing the Year After You Graduate From College?
        
If You Drink or Use Drugs, Do Your Parents Know?
        
How Much Do Your Parents Know About Your Life Online?
        
College Graduates and the Cities They Choose
        
Guest Post | Teenager Writes About 'Crushing Weight of College Debt'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARENTING (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) college; hometowns; parents; parents and children; U.S. economy; Student Opinion

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



28 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: College Graduates and the Cities They Choose

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: 6 Q's About the News | Why are many college graduates choosing to live in certain cities - and how does that affect the ones they don't choose? 

 BODY:
WHY are some cities trying to attract college graduates?
WHAT are some of these cities doing to lure college graduates?
WHAT percentage of residents in Dayton, Ohio, have college degrees?
WHAT is the difference in unemployment rates for cities with populations made up of one-third college graduates or more vs. those with fewer graduates?
WHERE are, according to this graphic, are there many college graduates?
WHERE are there very few?
WHEN was the difference between the most educated and least educated cities, in terms of the portion of residents with four-year degrees, 16 percentage points?
HOW long has the shift been going on?
WHO tends to have longer life expectancies, higher household incomes, lower divorce rates and fewer single-parent families, those with a college education, or those without?
Related: Our lesson "Home is Where the _____ Is" and Student Opinion question "What Do You Hope to Be Doing the Year After You Graduate From College?"

        
How Close Are You to Your Parents?
        
Guest Post | Teenager Writes About 'Crushing Weight of College Debt'
        
Free College Courses Begin to Proliferate Online
        
When College May Not Be Worth the Cost: Examining Student Loan Debt
        
How Necessary Is a College Education?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PARENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%) college; Economics; graduates; Population; 6 Q's About the News

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



29 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: California Highway Patrol May Put Ford Explorers on Duty

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The agency is looking to replace its aging fleet of patrol cars, which is based primarily around the discontinued Ford Crown Victoria. 

 BODY:
Ford Explorers outfitted for duty as California Highway Patrol cruisers could start patrolling the Golden State's freeways as early as October. The highway patrol is looking to replace its aging fleet of patrol cars, which is based around the discontinued Ford Crown Victoria.
Despite reports in the last week saying that the agency's purchase from Ford was a done deal, Angie Kozleski, a spokeswoman for the automaker, wrote in an e-mail that only a verbal agreement had been reached. It was unclear when a contract with the C.H.P. might actually be signed, she added.
Should a deal go through, it would be a rather momentous development for the agency, which must replace several thousand patrol cars, as well as for Ford, which is trying to convince law enforcement departments across the nation to put their trust in the Explorer with the Police Interceptor package, known officially as the Ford Police Interceptor utility.
It would also be a coup over rivals General Motors and Chrysler. G.M. is shopping around a specially equipped Chevrolet Caprice, and Chrysler its Dodge Charger police cruiser. The C.H.P.'s order would be the largest fleet order of the redesigned Explorer and could influence the purchase decisions of other police departments.
The Crown Vic has been popular with law enforcement agencies for its large size, capacity for hauling gear and security for suspects. The sedans also are reasonably powerful, predictable to drive and relatively easy to maintain.
The Police Interceptor utility, however, would present a different driving experience for officers, in that they have full-time all-wheel drive instead of rear-wheel drive; front-wheel drive is available as an option on the Interceptor. Combined with a higher center of gravity, the handling of these vehicles, particularly in emergency maneuvers, may differ markedly from that of the Crown Vics.
Horsepower is one area where officers should welcome the change. The 3.7-liter V-6 engines in the Police Interceptors produce 304 horsepower, significantly more than the listed 250 horsepower generated by the Crown Vic's V-8. Ford asserts the Explorers meet or exceed common law enforcement standards, like acceleration tests from zero to 60 miles per hour in less than 10 seconds, top speeds of more than 120 m.p.h. and the ability to run at sustained triple-digit speeds without engine damage. Ford also claims fuel economy should markedly improve. The outgoing Crown Vic averaged about 14 miles per gallon in the city and 21 m.p.g. on the highway. The Police Interceptor has an E.P.A. rating of 16 m.p.g. in city and 22 m.p.g. in highway driving.
Outfitted for patrol, the vehicle will also have a greater payload than the Crown Victorias.
In addition to the Explorer, Ford offers Taurus sedans kitted up with Police Interceptor packages. The C.H.P. order, however, would principally consist of Explorers, Ms. Kozleski said. This, despite the Taurus offering superior fuel economy and, in addition to a 3.5-liter V-6 good for 280 horsepower, an EcoBoost 3.7-liter V-6 producing 365 horsepower, as well as a more familiar sedan-based layout.
The Police Interceptor packages include improved crash-worthiness, heavy-duty components throughout, high-capacity radiators capable of idling for hours in high heat, bullet-resistant doors and a range of law enforcement electronic gear.

        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
G.M. Revives Chevrolet Caprice Police Car
        
Wheelies: The Michigan Calling Edition
        
Coming Soon, a Rear-Wheel-Drive Chevrolet Sedan With Evocative Initials
        
Chevrolet Corvette ZR1 Will Pace the Indianapolis 500

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SEDANS (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%) California; Caprice; Chevrolet; Dodge Charger; Ford Crown Victoria; Ford Explorer; highways; patrol cars; Police Interceptor; Automobiles; Police; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Chrysler Group LLC; Ford Motor Company; Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; Industry News; New Cars

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Chrysler Group LLC; Ford Motor Company

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%) Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



30 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Reaction to May Jobs Report, in Tweets

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: What do the May jobs figure say to you about the state of the economy? 

 BODY:
On Thursday, David Leonhardt wrote that more than any other data, the May jobs report would "indicate whether the economic slowdown of March and April was largely a statistical blip." On Friday, the government said that the American economy added 69,000 jobs in May. The unemployment rate is 8.2 percent, up from 8.1 percent. What do these new figures indicate to you?
We're collecting a variety of ideas and thoughts about the jobs report from Twitter. Let us know what you think by sending us a tweet (@nytimesbusiness). You can also leave a comment below.
[View the story "Reaction on Twitter" on Storify]

        
Weak U.S. Hiring in May
        
For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts
        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker
        
What Would Improve Job Prospects for Young Workers?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); TRENDS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%) jobs; May 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



31 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: The Future of the Euro

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: On the IHT Rendezvous blog, Jack Ewing, European economics correspondent, has responded to readers' questions about potential runs on banks, the utility of German inflation and how a Greek exit from the euro would work. 

 BODY:
On the IHT Rendezvous blog, Jack Ewing, European economics correspondent, has responded to readers' questions about potential runs on banks, the utility of German inflation and how a Greek exit from the euro would work. Read more 

        
How Richer States Finance Poorer Ones
        
U.S. Assets at Work, Unsupervised
        
The Euro Zone Crisis and the U.S.: A Primer
        
The European Debt Crisis and the G-20 Summit Meeting
        
The 4-Trillion-Euro Fantasy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (82%) euro; euro zone; European debt crisis; European Union; reader response

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



32 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Weak U.S. Hiring in May

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: The United States economy gained a net 69,000 jobs in May, the Labor Department said Friday, a showing that reflected mounting fears of a global slowdown. 

 BODY:
The United States economy gained a net 69,000 jobs in May, the Labor Department said Friday, a showing that reflected mounting fears of a global slowdown. The unemployment rate rose for the first time in almost a year, to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent. It was the third lackluster performance by the job market in three months, after a period of solid growth over the winter that raised hopes that the recovery was gaining momentum. (We'll have more analysis later this morning on Economix.) Read more 

        
For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts
        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker
        
What Would Improve Job Prospects for Young Workers?
        
Unemployment, Beyond the Rate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (86%) jobs; May 2012 jobs report; Unemployment

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



33 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: A Lagging Recovery

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Reasonably strong private-sector job growth has been offset by government layoffs. 

 BODY:
The jobs report for May was worse than almost anyone expected. It cries out for action from Washington, but the political pressures point the other way. Just as Europe needs to do something to push growth, so does the United States. But there are powerful forces screaming to cut government spending on both continents. 
It may be worth noting that -- in the private sector -- this recovery is going a little faster than did the one following the early 1990s downturn, and is only a little slower than the most recent ones. The big difference is in government jobs.

Total employment bottomed out in February 2010, well after the official end of the recession. The previous post-recession lows were in May 1991 and August 2003.
Here are some comparable figures for the first 27 months from the bottom, in terms of percentage change in employment:
Private Sector Jobs
1993-95: +2.7%
2003-5: +4.2%
2010-12: +4.0%
Government Jobs
1993-95: +2.9%
2003-5: +1.4%
2010-12: -2.2%
The seeds of this slow recovery were sown in the boom, when an irresponsible -- not to mention badly regulated -- financial system caused the country to waste huge sums of capital on excessive construction, largely but not solely of homes.
 Now construction employment remains lower than it was when the overall job number bottomed out in 2010. State and local governments, dependent on property taxes in many cases, are being badly squeezed. So they cut back on infrastructure spending, which is badly needed on its own merits and could provide jobs in a sector where they are most needed.
There is absolutely no prospect that will change anytime soon. 
Maybe this is just another spring slowdown, one that looks worse than it really is because of defective seasonal adjustments that exaggerate seasonal patterns. But with much of Europe in recession and doing nothing to get out of it, and signs of slowing in China and India, it is getting harder to believe that the American recovery is strong enough to bounce back on its own.

        
G.O.P. Assails Obama Over Jobs
        
What the Jobs Report Means for the Fed
        
The Spring Slowdown Has Arrived
        
Weak U.S. Hiring in May
        
Reaction to May Jobs Report, in Tweets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%) jobs; jobs report; May 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Economics; Floyd Norris

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



34 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: The Spring Slowdown Has Arrived

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: When the jobs market weakened in March and April, economists could tell a sensible story about why the weakening wasn't as severe as it looked. But you can't tell that story anymore. For the third straight year, the economy has fallen into a spring slump. 

 BODY:
 Friday's jobs report was the most important in a while - and it was terrible.
 When the jobs market weakened in March and April, economists could tell a sensible story about why the weakening wasn't as severe as it looked. The unusually warm weather had caused people to spend more money than they had planned, pulling forward economic activity - and hiring - into late 2011 and early 2012. The slowdown in March and April seemed as if it might simply be payback, rather than a truly worrisome new trend. 
 But you can't tell that story anymore. Some combination of problems - Europe's new troubles, the rise in gas prices from several months ago, the continued cuts in government employment, the continued hangover from the financial crisis - has clearly slowed the economy. You can look at either survey that the Labor Department does, of businesses or households, and you can look at any time period. The message is the same.
 For the third straight year, the economy has fallen into a spring slump.
 Over the last three months, the economy has added an average of only 96,000 jobs a month, down from a three-month average of 252,000 in February. The growth of the last three months is the weakest since August. It's weaker than the three-month growth in most of 2011 and half of 2010. 
 Job growth in the private sector has slowed, while the federal government and local governments are cutting workers. (State governments are no longer cutting, but they are not adding many, either.)
 What happens now? Don't expect much action from Congress, despite the talk you will hear on Friday. The jobs numbers will certainly raise the odds of further action by the Federal Reserve, but it's not clear by how much. Perhaps most important, the decisions of European policy makers loom even larger now.

        
A Lagging Recovery
        
G.O.P. Assails Obama Over Jobs
        
What the Jobs Report Means for the Fed
        
Weak U.S. Hiring in May
        
Reaction to May Jobs Report, in Tweets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) jobs; May 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



35 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: When Cleaning Up Power Plants, Time is Money

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: An analysis suggests that the power sector will incur far lower costs if federal pollution rules are phased in more gradually. 

 BODY:
 New rules on pollution from coal plants will cost the American economy $175 billion to $275 billion between now and 2035, , a nonprofit utility consortium. But the price can be be closer to the lower figure if the government shows flexibility in how the rules are phased in, the researchers said. 
 Power sector expenditures will range from $140 billion to $220 billion, according to the institute, which used computer modeling to predict effects across the economy. Those are big numbers. But the electricity industry is vast, so the estimated impact on the retail price of electricity is expected to be just 4.5 to 8 percent in 2015, the group said. 
Other trends, like a big increase or drop in overall demand or a major change in the price of natural gas, could yield larger charges in cost than this. And the estimates are a national average -- the rise in costs would be steeper in the Midwest and Southeast, which rely more heavily on emissions-intensive coal, the report said. 
Asked whether it had a cost estimate of its own or whether it viewed the utility group's estimates as accurate, the Environmental Protection Agency, which drafted the new rules, said that it was ordering "a series of common-sense and long overdue steps," and that the standards were achievable and relied on existing technology.

The research institute analyzed new rules on emissions of sulfur dioxide andnitrogen oxides and mercury, the disposal of coal ashand the use of cooling water. The estimate does not factor in the rule on carbon dioxide emissions. 
The analysis said that compliance costs would be driven up if all of the roughly 1,000 coal-fired power plants in the country had to meet the new rules simultaneously, which would lead to shortages of hardware and skilled labor. And some mandates could be met more cheaply if the industry had five years rather than three to comply because there are promising new technology ideas that need additional research before they can be deployed, it said. 
For example, new technologies are emerging for pre-treating coal before it is burned to reduce pollution and creating activated carbon that would capture mercury before it could be emitted. 
The power industry's standard way of meeting clean water rules is to build cooling towers so that power plants do not draw in as much water from rivers and kill fish and other marine organisms. But with work, new kinds of screens could be developed that would reduce such damage without the need for the cooling, the researchers said. 
Bryan Hannegan, vice president for environment and renewables at the institute, said the electric industry needed "a little bit of time for the technology to catch up." 
The possibility of extending deadlines for compliance are written into some of the pending rules, but such extensions would require the approval of the E.P.A. or the relevant state.
No matter what the cost and schedule of new pollution control requirements, the institute predicts hard times for the coal industry. With low natural gas prices, some older plants are certain to be shuttered, the study said. About 202 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity will survive no matter how the new rules are applied, but that number could be 288 gigawatts if the rules are phased in more slowly, according to the Institute's computer projections. 
The brave new world of less-polluting electricity generation is creating some hiccups, experts at the institute said. For example, as more wind turbines are added to the grid, coal-fired power plants must crank their production up and down much more rapidly to balance production with demand when the wind freshens or dies. And the pollution control equipment, which often resembles a small chemical factory, often does not perform well with rapid changes in power levels. 

        
A Speed Record on the Power Grid
        
Coal, Jobs and America's Energy Future
        
E.P.A. Issues Delayed Rules on Boiler Emissions
        
Is Fashion Week Smoking?
        
In New N.Y.U. Plant, a Collateral Carbon Benefit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); APPROVALS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) Air Pollution; Electric Power Research Institute; electricity; federal rules and standards; fossil fuel emissions; power generation; Chemicals; Coal; Computers and the Internet; Electric Light and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Mercury (Metal); Natural Gas; Research; Wind Power; Business; Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (84%) Electric Power Research Institute

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



36 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: New Ad Campaign to Highlight 'More Sophisticated' Australia

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The new ads continue the theme introduced in 2010, "There's nothing like Australia." But with the Australian dollar stronger than it was two years ago, the pitch to come visit has to be stronger too, officials say. 

 BODY:
Two years after the introduction of a big campaign to encourage tourists from around the world to visit Australia, the ads are already changing to reflect changing times.
Commercials for the organization known as Tourism Australia are to begin appearing in the United States on Sunday and in Shanghai on Monday. The campaign -- which also includes online and print ads, the Web site Australia.com, social media and a new app -- continues to use the theme that was introduced in June 2010, "There's nothing like Australia."
And the ad agency - DDB Sydney, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group - is the same, too.
But there are a number of differences in the new campaign, said Andrew McEvoy, managing director of Tourism Australia in Sydney, that are intended to convince potential visitors who "say 'I want to do it and I'll do it one day,' to do it today."
The Australian dollar is stronger now than it was two years ago, Mr. McEvoy said, meaning "we're probably not the high-value holiday we used to be."
So "we've got to demonstrate the experience is strong enough, good enough, that it's worth coming the distance," he added, particularly to the higher-income baby boomers who have continued to visit Australia despite the recent global economic woes.
The campaign presents glimpses and vignettes of what is intended to be perceived as "a more sophisticated, modern Australia," Mr. McEvoy said, with what Tourism Australia and DDB Sydney hope is "the same cheeky, irreverent personality."
For instance, an ad showing a couple walking on an uncrowded beach in the Whitsunday Islands carries the headline, "Welcome to the world's most scenic runway."
An ad photographed near the Sydney Opera House carries the headline, "Where a trip to the opera is as magical as the performance."
And an ad depicting a couple looking at the denizens of Kangaroo Island carries the headline, "Discover a zoo without fences."
The idea of the new approach is "letting the place become the hero," said Dylan Harrison, executive creative director at DDB Sydney.
That represents another change from the previous campaign, he added, which was focused on "seeing the country through its people," who were featured in ads inviting tourists to visit.
"The land has to become a character" in the Australia story, Mr. Harrison said, in the way the landscape of the American West became the story in the movies of the director John Ford.
"There was a feeling" among potential visitors, Mr. Harrison said, that he described this way: "Australia will always be there. I know what it is. There's no urgency to visit."
That can be countered, he added, by centering the new campaign on "the truth of the country."
The worldwide budget for the campaign during the next three years is estimated at $190 million.
Another change in the campaign involves the theme song heard in commercials, which are to run on television, online and in movie theaters.
An anthem written in 2010, titled "There's Nothing Like Australia" after the theme of the campaign, is being replaced with a more sophisticated-sounding song called "It's Like Love," by an Australian singer-songwriter, Dwayne Everett, and a 22-year-old viola player from Milwaukee, Jasmine Beams, who visited Australia last year.

        
Mars Reshuffles Agency Roster
        
Madison Avenue Turns to Executive Moves and Deals
        
DDB Sends Contest Winner to 9 Countries in 99 Days
        
CBS Finds Some Super Bowl Sales Success

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); OPERA (67%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) Australia; DDB Worldwide; Travel and Vacations; advertising

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: DDB Worldwide

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (64%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



37 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $23,350,000

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: A three-bedroom condo, with panoramic views of Central Park and the Hudson, was extensively renovated. 

 BODY:
A 37th-floor apartment in the condominium tower at 15 Central Park West that brought $23.35 million was the biggest sale of the week, according to city records.
The deal - in which the apartment more than doubled in value in only four short years - proves once again that few buildings can match 15 Central Park West when it comes to resale value.
A three-bedroom, it was first bought in 2008 by William Lawrence, the founder and chief executive of Meridian Capital Management, and his wife, Gloria, for about $10.6 million, according to city records.

In this week's section: Brownstones in Brooklyn are in demand, as buyers come out of economic hibernation. 
The new owner bought the apartment anonymously through a limited-liability company. 
The selling price partly reflects an extensive renovation. The new design plays up the apartment's most striking feature: sweeping views of Central Park to the east and the Hudson River to the west.
Paula Del Nunzio, a broker for Brown Harris Stevens, who represented the sellers, declined to comment on the deal, but she described the renovation as "exquisite."
The apartment is configured so that three of its largest rooms, all overlooking the park, could function either as separate spaces or, when oversized doors dividing the rooms are opened, as a grand "triple parlor."
Still, many apartments in the city have been extensively renovated without doubling in value in four years. It is the 15 Central Park West address that seems to be coveted by buyers as much as any fancy Calacatta marble finishes or walk-in closets. "The resales in the building are extraordinary," said Ms. Del Nunzio, noting that many apartments had doubled or tripled in value since sales began in 2007. "It seems to have created a mini-market all its own." 

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $14,380,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $52.5 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $7,750,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $31,500,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19,397,662.50

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Big Ticket; real estate; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Central Park (NYC); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



38 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Jurors in Edwards Case Say Prosecutors Failed to Present Enough Evidence

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Jurors from the John Edwards trial appeared on morning network television shows to talk about their deliberations. Some jurors said they believed Mr. Edwards was guilty but the government did not make its case. 

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Three jurors from the federal trial of former Senator John Edwards saidon the "Today" show Friday morning that they believed Mr. Edwards was guilty of at least one of the campaign finance law violations brought against him.
But in a live interview with Matt Lauer, two of the jurors, Cindy Aquaro and Ladonna Foster, said the government had failed to prove its case. The jury foreman, David Recchion, said the credibility of the government's star witness, Andrew Young, was a major concern for members of the jury during their nine days of deliberation.
As my colleagues Kim Severson and John Schwartz reported, the jury reached a unanimous decision Thursday, acquitting Mr. Edwards on one charge, which was based on a $200,000 check that the heiress Rachel Mellon had written him. They remained deadlocked on the five other counts, and a mistrial was declared.
Three other jurors said in an with George Stephanopoulos on ABC's "Good Morning America" that they did not think there was enough evidence to convict Mr. Edwards. 
Jonathan Nunn said that he voted "not guilty" on all six counts, explaining that he viewed the money as a personal gift, not a campaign contribution to Mr. Edwards. He said there was a small group of jurors who thought otherwise, which is what extended the deliberations. 
Two other jurors, Theresa Fuller and Sheila Lockwood, told Mr. Stephanopoulos that they did not think there was enough evidence presented to find Mr. Edwards guilty. 
"I felt like the evidence just wasn't there," said Ms Fuller, who added that she did not think the federal government should have brought the case at all. "It could have been more. It could have been a lot more than what it was."
Ms. Lockwood said: "I just felt that he didn't receive any of the money, so you can't really charge him for money that he got."
On the "Today" Show, Mr. Recchion, the jury foreman, said the jurors did make a serious effort to try and reach consensus on all counts when they were asked to return to deliberations on Thursday, but they could not.
During the deliberations, Mr. Recchion said, the jury prayed together as a group and would begin each day working together in a calm manner.
Ms. Aquaro said "it got very frustrating" at times. "The emotions got high," she said. 
When asked why it was so difficult to reach a guilty verdict when they believed he was guilty of some of the charges, Ms. Aquaro said Mr. Edwards was smart enough to hide the evidence. "I think he was guilty, but the evidence just was not there for us to prove guilt," she said.
Ms. Foster said she also did not believe the government presented enough evidence for a conviction: "I think he definitely had some knowledge of where the money was going, especially the money from Mrs. Mellon," she said.
Mr. Lauer also asked the jurors to raise their hands if they believed Mr. Edwards was a "bad guy" after listening to the evidence about his secret affair with Rielle Hunter as his wife was dying of cancer. None of them did so.
"We tried to put our feelings aside and what we were doing was just looking at the facts to come up with our verdict," Ms. Aquaro said.
The weakest part of the case, the jurors said, was the testimony of Mr. Young, a former top aide of Mr. Edwards.
It remains unclear whether the government will seek a new trial on any of the five counts in which a mistrial was declared.
Ms. Foster said she thought the government should seek to try Mr. Edwards again on the remaining five counts.

        
Edwards Might Have Broken Distracted-Driving Law en Route to Court

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); MISTRIAL (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); WITNESSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%) John Edwards; jurors; Matt Lauer; Rielle Hunter; Edwards, John; Hunter, Rielle; Young, Andrew; Jury System; News

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%) Edwards, John; Hunter, Rielle; Young, Andrew

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



39 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: DealBook's Week in Review: Trials and Default

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: The insider trading case against a former Goldman director continued and a bankruptcy filing represented the largest law firm collapse in United States history. A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 

 BODY:
 The insider trading case against a former Goldman director continued and a bankruptcy filing represented the largest law firm collapse in United States history. A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Research in Motion, Struggling, Ponders a Dim Future | After rejecting the idea of a sale for months, the maker of BlackBerry acknowledged that it was considering "strategic business model alternatives." But, asks Michael J. de la Merced, did it wait too long? DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Wants to Raise Stake in Brokerage Venture to 65% | James P. Gorman has made it clear he wants to get his hands on the brokerage business that his financial firm owns with Citigroup, Susanne Craig reported. DealBook 
Pfizer Executive to Take the Helm of WebMD | Cavan M. Redmond, a 20-year veteran of the health care industry, is joining the company as drug makers cut back on advertising spending and competition has grown from other Internet sites, Mr. de la Merced reported. DealBook 
Deal Joins Two Dynasties in Banking | RIT Capital Partners, led by Jacob Rothschild, said that it was buying a minority stake in Rockefeller Financial Services, Mark Scott reported. DealBook 
Research in Motion Warns of Second Consecutive Loss | The beleaguered BlackBerry maker said that it had retained J.P. Morgan Securities and RBC Capital Markets to help guide it through a previously announced strategic review, Ian Austen reported. DealBook 
Japanese Trading Company to Buy U.S. Grain Merchant | Marubeni said that it would buy Gavilon Group for $3.6 billion, as it looks to ship American agricultural products to fast-growing Asian markets, Hiroko Tabuchi reported. DealBook 
Investment Banking 
Deutsche Bank Chief Hands Over the Reins | Josef Ackermann bowed out "after more than a decade in which he transformed the institution into a global contender but also became a symbol to many Germans of the excesses of capitalism," Jack Ewing reported. DealBook 
Private Equity 
Deal Professor: For Private Equity Industry, Fewer Deals in Leaner Times | Steven M. Davidoff says that private equity isn't the money machine it used to be. DealBook 
One of the industry's biggest problems is that it has too much money to invest. According to Preqin, private equity firms had at the end of last year about $900 billion worth of "dry powder," or money that they raised mostly before the financial crisis and still needed to invest. At current takeover rates, this would take almost a decade.
I.P.O./Offerings 
Facebook's Troubled I.P.O. Gives Pause to New Offers | No offerings have priced since Facebook's debut on May 18, Mr. de la Merced reported. DealBook 
Venture Capital 
Growing, Strand by Strand | Like many new ventures, Arjuni, an e-commerce site in Cambodia that sells hair extensions, is harnessing the latest Internet tools like Twitter and social media to build a loyal customer base, Ron Gluckman reports. DealBook 
Legal/Regulatory 
Prosecutors Try to Prove Consultant's Link to Galleon's Moves | "Among the government's hurdles in its insider trading case against Rajat K. Gupta is proving that he benefited from any illegal trades," Peter Lattman reported. DealBook 

        
Insider Trial Includes Name-Dropping | A lawyer defending Mr. Gupta dropped the names of the George Soros and Irene B. Rosenfeld to portray traders at Galleon Group as braggarts who lied to impress their boss. DealBook 
        
Ex-Galleon Trader Plays Big Role in Insider Case | Michael Cardillo was a low-level trader barely known outside of his firm before he was accused of insider trading. Now, he could end up playing a major role in the trial, Azam Ahmed and Mr. Lattman reported. DealBook 
Dewey Hopes to Resolve Bankruptcy Quickly | Among the chief near-term goals of the firm's advisers is reaching an agreement to recover money from some of the firm's former partners, Mr. de la Merced and Mr. Lattman reported. DealBook 

        
Crippled Firm in Bankruptcy Proceedings | Dewey & LeBoeuf's filing punctuates the largest law firm collapse in United States history, Mr. Lattman reported. DealBook "Because the partnership lacks any shared cultural values or history, money becomes the core value holding the firm together," said William Henderson, a law professor at Indiana University who studies law firms. "Money is weak glue."
DealBook Column: Madoff Case Is Paying Off for Trustee ($850 an Hour) | Andrew Ross Sorkin says that a look at recent court filings shows Irving H. Picard has had much more success collecting money for himself and a dozen law firms and consultants than any victim of Bernard L. Madoff's crime. DealBook 
Helen Davis Chaitman, a lawyer with Becker & Poliakoff who has been fighting Mr. Picard on behalf of some net winners of Mr. Madoff's crime, famously told The New York Daily News: "Picard is going to wind up being richer than Madoff."
Madoff trustee @BakerHostetler, led by Irving Picard, has billed $554 mil in fees. Victims have gotten $330 mil so far ow.ly/bdu7Z
- Stephanie Fierman (@stephfierman) May 29, 2012
Marina Keegan, 22, Journalist and Playwright | Ms. Keegan argued in her column in DealBook that college students should try to resist the allure of a high-paying job in finance after graduation, William Alden reported. DealBook 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MERGERS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); AGRICULTURE (64%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%) Top Headline 1; Week in Review

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); PFIZER INC (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (90%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); RCP (LSE) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (58%); JOSEF ACKERMANN (53%); JACOB ROTHSCHILD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



40 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Economy, and Obama, Mired in Down Data

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: It's not just one set of poor jobs figures -- almost every significant economic figure over the past week has come in below expectations. 

 BODY:
Once we introduce our presidential forecasting model next week, which is based in part on current and projected economic data in addition to the polls, we'll be able to estimate in real time how something like the poor May jobs report would imperil President Obama's re-election chances.
The short version: this is a case where our model's insight would match the conventional wisdom - the bad economic numbers over the past weeks are sapping Mr. Obama of the edge he might have had on Mitt Romney.
It would be one thing if there were just one poor set of jobs figures. Economic data, like political polls, can be subject to measurement error and other idiosyncrasies. One data point -- however good or bad -- doesn't usually tell you all that much. The model accounts for this problem by looking at several different economic data series in addition to the jobs numbers.
However, almost every significant economic figure that has come out over the past week has come in below expectations, reversing a pattern from earlier in the year.
The stock market is also down sharply as investors assess their concerns over the American economy as well as the problems in Europe. There are also some troubling numbers from China, which had been one of the few bright spots in the global economy over the past few years.
Sometimes the internals of a jobs report look better than the headline numbers, but this isn't really one of those cases. In particular, the government revised downward its estimates of job growth in March and April, essentially wiping out the small 69,000-job gain that was said to occur in May.
If you want to find a bright spot, you would instead have to look at the household survey, from which the unemployment rate is calculated. Although the unemployment rate ticked up by one-tenth of a point, the number of employed persons increased and the unfavorable change in the unemployment rate occurred because more people were seeking jobs.
Another favorable data point, of sorts, is oil prices, which have declined substantially because of fears of a decline in global demand.
Oil prices have become a strongly counter-cyclical indicator in recent years. Prices tend to increase when the economic outlook is brighter -- potentially creating headaches for consumers and undermining plans by businesses for expansion. Prices decline as pessimism comes to dominate again, creating a little bit more slack in the economy.
Thus, energy prices have behaved as something of a thermostat on the economy. But it's a thermostat that may be tuned to a too-cool-for-comfort temperature given the tepid overall economic performance of the past few years. 
Indeed, the American economy as a whole has had a strong tendency to revert to the mean since we officially exited the recession in June 2009. Promising economic quarters have been followed by negative surprises. The reverse to some extent has also been true: the set of relatively good jobs numbers that were printed in January through March came after a difficult period in late 2011 when fears of recession were increasing.
In general, however, the lows have been lower and the highs have been high. At no point in the past three years has the economy shown sustained growth above the long-term trend, as it will eventually need to do to make up for the loss in productivity and jobs it suffered during the recession.
It is also the case, however, that the statistics have not been recessionary -- and incumbent presidents, especially in their first term after their party takes over the White House, have typically received a lot of credit from voters, getting a pass more often than not when they have an economic story to sell.
Mr. Obama's approval ratings have not yet declined discernibly after increasing earlier this year. His head-to-head polls against Mr. Romney have so far declined only mildly, and are better at the state level than in national tracking polls.
The concern for Mr. Obama, however, is not so much what might happen if the election were held today but what will happen in November. The economic news in recent weeks has been poor enough to suggest that if the economy finally breaks from its pattern of tepid growth in the second half of the year, it could be toward the downside.

        
Economically, Obama Is No Jimmy Carter
        
Has Obama's Magic Jobs Number Changed?
        
The General Election Ground Game: A First Look
        
Obama's Magic Number? 150,000 Jobs Per Month
        
A 30,000-Foot View on the Presidential Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); THERMAL SENSORS (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); PRICE CHANGES (66%) barack obama; economy; jobs; mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Economics; Politics

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



41 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Michigan Calling Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Preparations have been completed for the return of the Chevrolet Detroit Belle Isle Grand Prix, and Road &#038; Track schedules a move from Newport Beach, Calif., to Ann Arbor, Mich. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 The Detroit Grand Prix returns this weekend after a four-year hiatus. Renamed the Chevrolet Detroit Belle Isle Grand Prix, the event was reinstated on the IndyCar calendar in large part because of support from General Motors and the Penske Corporation. According to The Detroit Free Press, ticket sales for Sunday's IndyCar race are outpacing the rate in 2008 by 23 percent. Though Sunday's race is the marquee event, there are also races planned for the Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car Series, Indy Lights Series and the Pirelli World Challenge Championship Series. (The Detroit Free Press)
 Hearst Corporation announced Thursday that Road & Track magazine would relocate its offices from Newport Beach, Calif., to Ann Arbor, Mich., this summer, where it would join Car and Driver, its sister publication. Automobile magazine, owned by Source Interlink Media, also is published out of Ann Arbor. Hearst appointed Larry Webster, formerly the automotive editor for Popular Mechanics, another Hearst publication, to lead Road & Track. Matt DeLorenzo, the current editor in chief, will step down June 4 to assume an advisory role for the magazine. (Hearst)
 Having previously pulled its advertising from Facebook and decided against producing a commercial for next year's Super Bowl, General Motors on Thursday announced another marketing move. The company said in Shanghai that it signed a five-year contract with Manchester United, the Premier League soccer club, to be its official automotive partner. Terms of the partnership were not disclosed by G.M. The automaker also pledged to donate 1.5 million soccer balls through the One World Futbol project to be distributed by nonprofit groups and aid organizations over the next three years. (General Motors)
 Mercedes-Benz released details Thursday of its coming GL63 AMG. The seven-passenger crossover, based on the GL-Class, receives the 5.5-liter biturbo V-8 engine found throughout the AMG line, here producing 550 horsepower and 560 pound-feet of torque. The automaker claims the all-wheel-drive crossover accelerates from a stop to 62 miles per hour in 4.9 seconds. (Motor Trend)
 Rolls-Royce inaugurated its largest showroom in North America Thursday, in the town of Jericho, N.Y., on Long Island. The showroom, owned by Bespoke Motor Group, can accommodate 12 vehicles on the floor. It includes a customization lounge, cafe and meeting space. (Rolls-Royce)
Bernie Ecclestone, the Formula One boss, told reporters Thursday that the long-anticipated IPO for the race series on the Singapore stock exchange would only go forward when "we think it's the right time." The series was expected to float on the exchange later this month, but with softness in Asian markets and a recent 21 percent equity sale by CVC Capital, the majority owner of Formula One, analysts said the IPO was unlikely to occur on the initial timetable. (Reuters)
An earlier version of this post said Motor Trend magazine was based out of Ann Arbor, Mich. Its offices are in Los Angeles.

        
Wheelies: The Trickle-Down Edition
        
Wheelies: The 'We Are the 63.4 Percent' Edition
        
Chevrolet Corvette ZR1 Will Pace the Indianapolis 500
        
Wheelies: The Skunkworks Edition
        
Monday Motorsports: Ferrari and Red Bull Abandon Formula One Teams Association

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (83%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%) Belle Isle; Bernie Ecclestone; britain; Chevrolet; dealers; Formula One; General Motors; GL; IndyCar; Mercedes-Benz; road & track; Rolls Royce; Ecclestone, Bernie; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Hearst Corp; Indy Racing League; Manchester United (Soccer Team); Penske Corp; Rolls-Royce Motor Cars; Michigan; General Motors|GM|NYSE; advertising; Industry News; Motorsports; New Cars

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%); PENSKE CORP (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); SOURCE INTERLINK COS INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Formula One; General Motors; Hearst Corp; Indy Racing League; Manchester United (Soccer Team); Mercedes-Benz; Penske Corp; Rolls-Royce Motor Cars

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); MANU (NYSE) (54%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (72%); SIC7513 TRUCK RENTAL & LEASING WITHOUT DRIVERS (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS424920 BOOK, PERIODICAL & NEWSPAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (54%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD ECCLESTONE (86%) Ecclestone, Bernie

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (86%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (74%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



42 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Confusion About the Deficit

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Because the American economy is operating far short of its capacity, the government should provide more stimulus, even if it increases the budget deficit, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Is a decrease in the federal budget deficit good or bad for jobs and growth in the American economy? This deceptively simple question confuses thousands of students who enroll in introductory economics every year, and it will undoubtedly confuse millions of voters this year. 
Based on misleading political rhetoric -- a nave assumption that government budgets are like individual or family budgets (and poorly taught economics courses) -- most voters believe that a large government deficit is necessarily bad for the economy. 
Following this logic, the large spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to occur in January 2013 should be good for the economy because they would sharply reduce the deficit. 
But the Congressional Budget Office has just issued a sober warning that these measures, which would reduce the fiscal deficit by about 5 percent of gross domestic product between 2012 and 2013, are likely to throw the economy back into recession. 
Even Mitt Romney, who is attacking President Obama for fiscal profligacy and has pledged to balance the budget if he is elected, has acknowledged that slashing more than a trillion dollars from the deficit next year would bring on another recession. 
But if a significant decrease in the deficit would be bad for the economy, does that mean an increase in the deficit would be good for the economy?
At the heart of the confusion lies the fact that there is no one answer. No wonder students and voters are confused. The effects of an increase or a decrease in the deficit depend on the economy's specific conditions. Under current conditions, an increase in the budget deficit would be better for the economy than the decrease scheduled to take effect next year. 
Here's why. 
By itself an increase in the deficit, either in the form of an increase in government spending or a reduction in taxes, causes an increase in demand. But how this affects output, employment and growth depends on what happens to interest rates. 
When the economy is operating near capacity, government borrowing to finance an increase in the deficit causes interest rates to rise. Higher interest rates reduce or "crowd out" private investment, and this reduces growth. 
The "crowding out" argument explains why large and sustained government deficits take a toll on growth; they reduce capital formation. But this argument rests on how government deficits affect interest rates, and the relationship between government deficits and interest rates varies. 
When there is considerable excess capacity, an increase in government borrowing to finance an increase in the deficit does not lead to higher interest rates and does not crowd out private investment. Instead, the higher demand resulting from the increase in the deficit bolsters employment and output directly, and the resulting increase in income and economic activity in turn encourages or "crowds in" additional private spending. 
The crowding-in argument is the right one for current economic conditions. The economy is operating far below capacity, as evidenced by the high unemployment rate and the considerable gap between the actual and potential levels of output. 
Nominal short-term interest rates are near zero, and the Federal Reserve is committed to keeping them there for the foreseeable future in an effort to strengthen private spending. 
The yield on the 10-year Treasury, the best measure of the cost of borrowing for the federal government, has fallen below 2 percent (to a historic low of 1.6 percent this week as a result of concerns over the future of the euro), despite the fact that the deficit is about 8.5 percent of gross domestic product. In 2007, before the onset of the Great Recession, when the deficit was only 1.2 percent of G.D.P., the 10-year Treasury offered a yield of 4.6 percent. 
The remarkable combination of surging deficits and falling borrowing rates for the federal government indicates that the American economy is slowly recovering from a balance-sheet recession. 
In the wake of the real estate bubble and ensuing financial crisis, the private sector has curtailed spending to reduce debt and rebuild assets. The result has been a significant and sustained contraction in private demand, reflected in a sharp and unprecedented swing in the gap between private saving and investment from an average deficit (investment exceeding saving) of $267 billion in 2005-7 to an average surplus of $789 billion in 2008-11. 
This implies a large drop in private demand of about 7.4 percent relative to G.D.P. in 2008, when the recession took hold. 
As part of deleveraging, the private sector has also increased its demand for safe financial assets and has been willing to pay a premium for them. In terms of liquidity, risk and returns, Treasury bills and bonds are the closest thing to cash. They can be used as collateral to secure lending and as a convenient place to store savings without much costly due diligence. 
In the wake of increasing doubts about the viability of the euro, foreign investors, including central banks, have also been stashing larger shares of their balances in United States Treasury debt, driving its yields down further. 
Indeed, the demand for such debt is so strong that the Treasury is exploring how to let investors enter negative yields when bidding at its auctions. Despite fear-mongering by deficit hawks, there is no evidence of bond-market vigilantes poised to flee United States government debt because of concerns about the government's creditworthiness.
Instead, investors are becoming more anxious that political stalemate will drive the United States off a fiscal cliff and into recession at year-end. 
Under prevailing economic conditions, there is a strong case for expansionary fiscal policy, even at the expense of an increase in the deficit. Additional fiscal support would increase output and employment now. 
It would also increase output and employment in the future because stronger demand now would encourage more private investment and stem the loss of skills and productivity associated with long-term unemployment and declining labor-force participation. 
Indeed, the longer the current output level remains below the economy's potential, the larger the loss of potential output in the future. 
The question that needs to be asked is whether the future gains in potential output and growth that would result from expansionary fiscal policy today would outweigh any future losses of output and growth caused by the repayment of the government's additional debt.
Under current conditions, with a significant gap between actual and potential output, a high rate of long-term unemployment and a real government borrowing rate at zero or lower, the answer to this question is almost certainly yes. 
Indeed, Lawrence H. Summers and J. Bradford DeLong assert in a recent paper that under these conditions, expansionary fiscal policy is likely to be self-financing - the future gains in potential output are likely to offset the policy's cost. 
The self-financing hypothesis is particularly compelling for expansionary fiscal policies targeted at investment. 
The government can currently borrow funds and repay less than it borrows in constant dollars. Many job-creating public investment projects in education, research and infrastructure would earn much higher rates of return in terms of future growth. The government could also borrow to finance new loan-guarantee programs and tax incentives to leverage private investment in these areas. 
Congress should adopt a multiyear plan that begins to reduce the long-run deficit gradually when the economy has recovered and when borrowing by the federal government begins to crowd out private spending. 
For now, however, insufficient private spending rather than excessive government borrowing is what is impeding job creation, discouraging investment and eroding skills. Under these conditions, additional growth-enhancing fiscal measures to "crowd in" private spending are warranted. 

        
Jobs Deficit, Investment Deficit, Fiscal Deficit
        
What Rule Should the Fed Follow?
        
Taxes and Employment
        
The Varying Impact of Austerity and Stimulus
        
How the Banks Endangered Medicare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (97%); BUDGET DEFICITS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%) budget deficit; Congressional Budget Office; Daily Economist; employment; fiscal stimulus; government spending; Interest Rates; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Federal Budget (US); United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



43 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: What the Jobs Report Means for the Fed

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve is the only plausible source of significant government action to give the economy a boost in the foreseeable future. Will it decide to take action? 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, one of the most important voices on the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee strongly indicated that the Fed was unlikely to expand its extraordinary campaign to stimulate the economy.
"As long as the U.S. economy continues to grow sufficiently fast to cut into the nation's unused economic resources at a meaningful pace, I think benefits of further action are unlikely to exceed the costs," said the official, William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
On Friday, we learned that during the month of May, growth did not make much of a dent in those unused resources. Only 69,000 jobs were created.
The Fed remains the only plausible source of significant government action to give the economy a boost in the foreseeable future. Will the central bank decide to take action when its policy-making committee meets in late June?

We will learn more when the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testifies before the Joint Economic Committee next Thursday.
In the meantime, the rest of Mr. Dudley's speech suggests that the answer is still probably no. Or at least, not yet.
Slow job growth could eventually prompt action by the central bank. It could once again purchase Treasuries or other securities to drive down the cost of borrowing for businesses and consumers.
But the Fed has also made it clear that it would rather not act.
Senior officials have said repeatedly in recent months that the bar for additional action is unusually high at the moment, because any additional steps to encourage growth would have to be huge to be meaningful. Many analysts also feel that the Fed is more reluctant to take action during a presidential campaign.
Mr. Dudley's voice is particularly important because he serves as the policy-making committee's vice chairman and, in that position, is generally careful to say nothing that breaks from the views of the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
Here's what he said Wednesday:
 "If the economy were to slow so that we were no longer making material progress toward full employment the downside risks to growth were to increase sharply, or if deflation risks were to climb materially, then the benefits of further accommodation would increase in my estimation and this could tilt the balance toward additional easing."
In other words, let's see how things go from here.
Or as Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist for Capital Economics, put it in a note Friday morning, "We certainly wouldn't rule out a QE3 if conditions continue to deteriorate."

        
The Spring Slowdown Has Arrived
        
Weak U.S. Hiring in May
        
Reaction to May Jobs Report, in Tweets
        
What Else Could the White House Have Done?
        
Bernanke to Markets: Chill Out, We're Ready

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEFLATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%) Ben S. Bernanke; Federal Reserve; jobs; May 2012 jobs report; Quantitative Easing; Unemployment; Bernanke, Ben S; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



44 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Forecast Shifts the Electoral Outlook

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The latest projections by Moody's Analytics for monthly job growth still point to a close race for the White House. But the odds of a mini-boom that would help the incumbent have faded. 

 BODY:
The disappointing jobs report released Friday suggests that the economy is weaker than most analysts thought - and that job growth in coming months will be weaker.
 Forecasts from Moody's Analytics, which we are updating weekly on this blog, now suggest that average monthly job growth in the six months before the election will be 157,000. (Those six months include May, the month for which the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its initial estimate this morning.) The forecast is down from 184,000 just a week ago. 
 Even the newly sober forecast assumes that the economy will pick up next month and add 150,000 jobs, compared with only 69,000 in May. Why the predicted uptick? Moody's economists note that other indicators of the labor market - initial jobless claims, a monthly survey by the payroll processor ADP, regional Federal Reserve surveys, and the pace of growth in gross domestic product - suggest that job growth should be faster than it was last month. "Odds are the labor market is better than it appears, but only modestly," the economists wrote in a blog post on Friday.
Going by history, monthly job growth of 157,000 would suggest that the economy would be roughly neutral in the presidential race, pointing to a very close election. But there is no question that the odds of a 2012 mini-boom that would help President Obama have fallen markedly in the last few months. And unless job growth accelerates substantially - and quickly - from its May pace, the economy will make Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, a favorite.
"The bottom line is that the U.S. recovery has hit another wall," the Moody's economists wrote. "Until Europe resolves its crisis and U.S. lawmakers address the fast-approaching fiscal cliff, the economy will continue to struggle."

        
For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts
        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
A Lagging Recovery
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker
        
G.O.P. Assails Obama Over Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (68%) 2012 election; jobs; jobs report; May 2012 jobs report; Moody's; presidential election; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Forecasts; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Moody's Corporation; Moody's Corporation|MCO|NYSE; Jobs and the Election

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%) Moody's Corporation

TICKER: Moody's Corporation; MCO; NYSE

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



45 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Good for Jeb Bush

BYLINE: JULIET LAPIDOS


HIGHLIGHT: The former governor of Florida explains why he never signed Grover Norquist's anti-tax pledge. 

 BODY:
Jeb Bush, the former governor better known as the brother and son of former presidents, testified in front of the House Budget Committee today on the state of the economy. He criticized the Dodd-Frank financial reform law and over-dependence on government institutions, repeating some of the themes from his recent Wall Street Journal op-ed on "Capitalism and the Right to Rise." He also delighted liberals.
When Rep. Chris Van Hollen asked if Mr. Bush agreed with Grover Norquist's anti-tax pledge, he responded:
So I ran for office three times. The pledge was presented to me three times. I never signed the pledge. I cut taxes every year I was governor. I don't believe you outsource your principles and convictions to people. I respect Grover's political involvement. He has every right to do it, but I never signed any pledge.

In this fallen age of super PACs and ALEC, sounds almost radical, even if, in actuality, it's the most basic of moral concepts.
Mr. Bush went onto reject not just the concept of signing a pledge (any pledge), but the conceit that tax hikes are never tolerable. He said he would accept a mixed, if lop-sided, deficit-reduction package: "If you could bring to me a majority of people to say that we're going to have $10 in spending cuts for $1 of revenue enhancement-put me in, coach."
Ten-to-one would sound insulting in a less extreme political context. But this meager willingness to compromise puts Mr. Bush outside the Republican mainstream. Presented with the same hypothetical cut-to-revenue ratio at a debate last summer, every Republican candidate for the presidency said they'd turn it down.

        
At Least Grover Norquist Is Consistent
        
Give Me Your Tired, Your Over-Taxed
        
No Comment Necessary: Grover Norquist Plays the Nazi Card
        
Partisanship Is Not a Bipartisan Problem
        
Romney's Victory Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAX INCREASES (70%) Grover G Norquist; Jeb Bush; Taxes; Bush, Jeb; Norquist, Grover G; Van Hollen, Christopher Jr; Federal Taxes (US)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (79%) Bush, Jeb; Norquist, Grover G; Van Hollen, Christopher Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



46 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: The Future of the Euro: Jack Ewing Answers Readers' Questions

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: Jack Ewing, European economics correspondent, explores potential runs on banks, the utility of German inflation and how a Greek exit from the euro would work. 

 BODY:
First of all, thank you for the large number of excellent questions in response to our call for your queries about the euro crisis. I have picked some questions that were most representative of the interest - from all over the world - and most pertinent. And many thanks to readers like "abo" from Paris who did my work for me and supplied replies of their own.
I've condensed and edited the questions somewhat, so apologies if I have misconstrued anything.
Q.
 An anonymous reader writes:
I would like to understand why it appears that the governments of Greece and Spain, to say nothing of European Central Bank officials, have done nothing to address the looming threat of bank runs in these countries. It seems like they should have long ago thought about how to address this most basic threat.
A.
 Your question gets at one of the fundamental issues raised by the crisis. Banks are still regulated at the national level, but their problems can have international consequences.
Greece and Spain have deposit guarantee programs designed to reassure bank customers and prevent runs. But bank customers naturally may wonder whether the guarantees are any good, considering that the governments have severe fiscal problems of their own.
European leaders have talked about a Europe-wide deposit guarantee fund, but so far there has been little action. Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has promised that healthy banks won't be allowed to run out of money. But the E.C.B. can only give banks loans. It can't replace depleted capital reserves or guarantee deposits.
So for the time being bank runs remain a threat.
Q.
 From Hanno Achenbach in Essen, Germany:
How can one seriously believe that 5 percent inflation in Germany would help Greece, Italy, Spain or France in any significant way? Do you believe that? If so, please indicate precisely how much that would help those countries over their ears in debt?
A.
 The argument - and I'm not saying I agree with it - is that higher inflation in Germany makes it easier for Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal to become competitive again. By some estimates Greek wages need to fall 40 percent before unit labor costs are on a par with Germany. (German workers earn much more than Greeks, but on average are more productive, so it is cheaper to produce something in Germany than Greece.)
If wages in Germany rise faster, then wages in other countries don't need to fall as much, or so the argument goes. Also, inflation erodes the value of the debt, which then becomes easier to repay.
The big problem with this argument is that European countries don't just compete with each other. They compete with the whole world. So if German wages rise too much, the whole continent could become less competitive.
Q.
 From Schmid in East Lansing, Michigan:
Why can't the E.C.B. do like the U.S. and Iceland did - essentially loan money to banks and nations? Iceland nationalized the banks and wrote off the bad loans and started over. The U.S. took equity interest in failing banks. If central banks can loan to banks, why can't they loan to nations?
A.
 The E.C.B. can and does loan huge sums to banks, but by charter it is not allowed to finance governments. The E.C.B. has already bent this rule by buying some government bonds on open markets. But it is unlikely that the E.C.B. will ever buy government bonds on the same scale as the Federal Reserve. Some economists and political leaders think it should, but "quantitative easing" would encounter huge resistance in Germany and other northern countries.
Europe is discussing pooling its debt into some form of euro bond, but for the time being Germany remains allergic to any solution that calls for its taxpayers to assume the financial burdens of other countries.
Q.
 From Rational Expectations, New York:
It seems to me that the version of austerity which has been applied by the indebted European governments has been to stick it to the private sector by raising or increasing collection of taxes, which is contractionary, with little, if any, pro-growth supply side policies such as labor market reforms, privatizations or reductions in civil service numbers, salaries or benefits. Is this a correct impression, and, if so, what can be done to get the governments to take some of the pain themselves so that the affected economies have a chance to grow?
A.
 In fact, the European Central Bank has criticized governments for applying the wrong kind of austerity, increasing sales taxes for example when they could cut government bureaucracy. European governments almost everywhere, not just the troubled countries, have been slow to deregulate labor markets or take other steps - structural reforms - that economists say would promote growth. Even Germany, though often praised for loosening its labor rules in recent years, faces criticism for regulations that impede lively competition among small service businesses.
If political leaders took steps to encourage growth, they would also have an easier time paying the national debt. But they are still dragging their feet. The problem, from an elected official's point of view, is that most of these changes cost votes. If a government cuts the salaries of 500,000 public employees, for example, it probably loses the votes of those workers without necessarily getting much credit from the rest of the electorate.
Q.
 From Mark T., New York:
It seems to me that there are two Europes, the productive and less corrupt north and the less productive and more corrupt south. Is there any talk of simply going to two currencies, one for the northern and one for the southern nations?
A.
 Many people would find your characterizations of southern and northern Europe over broad. That said, we can all understand that at heart your question is about relative levels of corruption and productivity. 
In fact, some people have proposed exactly this solution. Most economists would agree that a common currency has a better chance of working among countries that have similar levels of productivity and growth. The problem would be how to disentangle the euro zone without incurring enormous costs. Also, the idea of having two currencies is built on the assumption that the northern and southern countries will always be similar to one other. But there is not really any reason why this should be so. Only a few years ago Germany was seen as the sick man of Europe and a drag on the rest of the continent. So I would not assume that the northern countries will always have better economies than the southern countries.
Q.
 Taxpayer in Athens writes:
Has anybody calculated so far how much (and if) Germany has benefited from the euro, including the amount already paid for aiding Greece and other countries in trouble?
A.
 I'm not aware of anyone who has come up with a sum total of the benefits to Germany, but you raise an important point. Germany is able to borrow money at nearly zero interest rates, which is helping the country to lower its deficit without too much pain.
In addition, German companies are almost certainly enjoying a lower exchange rate with the euro than they would if they still had the Deutschmark - just look at how the Swiss franc has gone through the roof (though part of the current rise has to do with being a so-called safe haven during the turmoil around the euro). Still, the weak euro makes German products less expensive in dollars or other foreign currencies and makes it easier for German companies to compete on price in export markets.
It is probably impossible to quantify those benefits, but I think it is safe to say they exceed the cost of aid provided to Greece and other countries.
Q.
 From Arnie in San Diego:
One reads about structural impediments such as the wealthy evading taxes in Greece and Italy, and about the lack of competition in these countries because of the strength of unions, and the difficulty in obtaining new business licenses and the like. Even if some austerity conditions imposed by the E.C.B. and others were relaxed or eliminated, as some economists propose, would the economies of these countries become sound if the existing structural impediments were not eliminated?
A.
 The debt crisis probably wouldn't exist if Spain, Greece, Italy and Portugal had healthier economies. Greece, in particular, is known for being a difficult place to do business. It takes 77 days just to get electricity hooked up, according to the World Bank. Any long-term solution to the debt crisis has to include an overhaul of economies in the troubled countries. The political leaders know this. They are just having trouble getting it done.
Q.
 From Spanky in France:
Could you detail the kinds of steps that would have to be taken for Greece to exit (or be forced out of) the euro zone?
A.
 There is no official procedure for a country to leave the euro zone, and no country can be kicked out. If Greece decides to leave on its own, or is forced to by circumstances, European leaders will have to improvise. There is no road map. While some economists say a Greek exit is manageable, others think it could create social chaos in Greece and financial turmoil in Europe and the rest of the world, perhaps on the same scale as the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008.
Q.
 Adam Corson-Finnerty of Southampton, Pennsylvania, asks:
I wonder whether this crisis could represent a milestone in the further integration of European nations. Is the cost of unwinding steeper than the cost of moving forward? I also wonder if the United States has an interest in which way things go? We seem to be standing on the sidelines.
A.
 The crisis has already forced European nations to create a common bailout fund and agree on ways to impose more fiscal discipline on each other. There is talk, though not much action, of common supervision of banks and euro bonds (see above). One of the lessons of the crisis, not lost on political leaders, is that it is very hard for a common currency to work in a fragmented economic and political system. The costs of unwinding the euro and the benefits of doing so are probably impossible to quantify, but the risks are massive and it is not in the nature of policymakers to embark on grand experiments. So, yes, the crisis could well push Europe closer together. 
The United States definitely has an interest in the way things go because financial upheaval in Europe can easily spread across the Atlantic via the banking system. Europe is also an important market for many U.S. companies. I wouldn't say the United States is standing on the sidelines. President Obama and other top U.S. officials have repeatedly pressed their European counterparts to move more aggressively to contain the crisis. But there is a limit to what they can get the Europeans to do.

        
Ask About the Euro
        
Things Fall Apart Economically, Everywhere
        
The Decline and Fall of Greece
        
Hollande on European Leaders: They Talk a Lot
        
Can Europe Be Saved? Should It?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); TRENDS (61%) Euro; European sovereign debt crisis; Banking and Financial Institutions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Euro (Currency); European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); European Central Bank; Europe; Germany; Greece; E Crisis

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%) European Central Bank

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (71%) Europe; Germany; Greece

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



47 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Counterterrorism Actions Complicate Republican Strategy

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: A report in The New York Times is the latest evidence that Mr. Obama has embraced the use of his predecessor's national security and anti-terrorism machinery. 

 BODY:
The revelation that President Obama has been personally and secretly directing a covert cyberwar against Iran could have political implications as the president enters the final stretch of his re-election campaign against Mitt Romney this year.
The report in The New York Times is the latest evidence that Mr. Obama has embraced the use of his predecessor's national security and anti-terrorism machinery, decisions that some of his liberal supporters have viewed as a misguided and hawkish approach to foreign policy.
But the news also complicates the political strategy for Republicans, including Mr. Romney, who are trying to build a case against Mr. Obama as a feckless, indecisive foreign policy leader, citing in particular the humanitarian crises in Libya and Syria.
That case may be more difficult to make against a president who has once again pushed the envelope for waging covert operations abroad. In in this instance, the target was Iran, a country against which Republicans have been urging the administration to take stronger and more decisive action. Last year, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of being "weak and timid" with Iran for not reacting more strongly when a United States drone crashed in that country.
Ironically, the news of Mr. Obama's cyber war against Iran comes a day after the president stood shoulder to shoulder with George W. Bush in the White House as the official portrait of Mr. Bush, the 43rd president, was unveiled. Mr. Obama praised Mr. Bush and joked that he "left me a really good TV sports package" in the White House. 
It turns out, Mr. Bush also left behind a secret computer virus that Mr. Obama used to try and cripple Iran's nuclear program.
The Times report portrays Mr. Obama as personally engaged in the decision to use the virus, which was eventually called Stuxnet, to slow Iran's progress and destroy its nuclear enrichment equipment. The virus was developed during Mr. Bush's time in office, but its use continued and expanded under Mr. Obama.
"From his first months in office, President Obama secretly ordered increasingly sophisticated attacks on the computer systems that run Iran's main nuclear enrichment facilities, significantly expanding America's first sustained use of cyberweapons, according to participants in the program," the article, by David Sanger, says.
It was the second Times story in a week to provide a behind-the-scenes look at the president's direct involvement in covert decisions abroad. A story on Tuesday by Jo Becker and Scott Shane described Mr. Obama's role in deciding what terrorists to put on a "kill list."
The "kill list" story prompted predictable outrage from some of Mr. Obama's staunchest supporters, who have long complained that anti-war rhetoric he expressed during the 2008 campaign has given way to a hawkish policy in the White House.
"He has put a prettier and more palatable face on extremely ugly policies," Glenn Greenwald, of Salon Magazine, wrote this week. "Many Obama fans claimed during the 2008 election that his background as a constitutional lawyer would ensure reversal of the most extremist Bush/Cheney policies, but he has instead used that background for the opposite goal."
Liberals have not always been unhappy with the president. In his first days in office, Mr. Obama banned interrogation techniques that his supporters deemed tantamount to torture and he ordered the closure of the detention facility at Guantnamo Bay, Cuba, within a year, although he failed to follow through in the face of Congressional opposition. Later in his presidency, he followed through on a promise to end the war in Iraq by the conclusion of 2011. Both moves earned him praise from his base.
But his decision to increase the number of troops in Afghanistan by 30,000 was viewed by some liberals as a betrayal, even though Mr. Obama had said during the 2008 campaign that the war in that country was the right one to be fighting.
And his willingness to dramatically increase the use of drones for targeted assassinations of terrorist figures has strained his credibility among those who view such tactics as the work of the neoconservative hawks who surrounded Mr. Bush in the White House.
Even the killing of Osama bin Laden, which was widely supported by members of both political parties, made some progressives queasy because of its implications for defining the executive powers of the presidency to order an assassination.
But the same actions by Mr. Obama that anger liberals could also help insulate him from the "weak on defense" political attacks that Republicans have historically leveled against Democrats.
Mr. Romney and his fellow Republicans have accused the president of not being aggressive enough with Iran, Syria and other adversaries. They have said he should have done more to support an uprising in Iran two years ago. And they accuse Mr. Obama of not doing enough in Syria.
"President Obama's lack of leadership has resulted in a policy of paralysis that has watched Assad slaughter 10,000 individuals," Mr. Romney said this week, calling for the United States and its allies to provide weapons to the Syrian opposition forces.
Mr. Obama's campaign has already begun to use the killing of Osama bin Laden as a political tool, questioning in an ad about the president's leadership whether Mr. Romney would have made the decision to authorize the raid in Pakistan during which Bin Laden was killed.
Similarly, the president's allies could use the stories from this week - Mr. Obama's role in assembling a terrorist "kill list" and his involvement in authorizing cyber warfare - to challenge the idea that his foreign policy is characterized by paralysis.
The campaign between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney is likely to remain primarily about the economy and how to fix it. But foreign policy and national security issues will help shape how both men are perceived as leaders.
And events in the world - including in Iran and Syria - could heighten voter interest in how both men will use the country's national security apparatus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (68%) Obama, Barack; Republican Party; Iran; United States; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iran; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



48 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Assail Obama in Wake of Disappointing Jobs Report

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans quickly seized on Friday's disappointing jobs report as fresh evidence of what they say are President Obama's "job-killing" policies and further proof of the need for a new occupant in the White House next year. 

 BODY:

Republicans quickly seized on Friday's disappointing jobs report as fresh evidence of what they say are President Obama's "job-killing" policies and further proof of the need for a new occupant in the White House next year.
The United States economy added only 69,000 jobs in May, the lowest number in a year. The unemployment rate, which had been heading lower over the last several months, ticked back up to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent a month earlier.
For Mr. Obama, who faces re-election in less than six months, the report suggests that the economic fortunes of the country are headed in a direction that will task his campaign. The sagging recovery could complicate his efforts to persuade voters to give him another four years.
Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, called the report "devastating news for American workers and American families" and mocked the president's campaign slogan, "forward," saying that the country has been moving backward under the president's policies. 
"This week has seen a cascade of one bad piece of economic news after another," Mr. Romney said in a statement. "Slowing G.D.P. growth, plunging consumer confidence, an increase in unemployment claims, and now another dismal jobs report all stand as a harsh indictment of the president's handling of the economy."
In a statement, Alan B. Krueger, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, stressed the positive, saying that the president's policies are working, but require more time. 
"Problems in the job market were long in the making and will not be solved overnight," Mr. Krueger wrote. "The economy lost jobs for 25 straight months beginning in February 2008, and over 8 million jobs were lost as a result of the Great Recession. We are still fighting back from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression."
The White House stressed the "headwinds" that are affecting the economy in the United States. "Just like last year at this time, our economy is facing serious headwinds, including the crisis in Europe and a spike in gas prices that hit American families' finances over the past months," Mr. Krueger wrote.
Mr. Obama's campaign has been trying for weeks to challenge Mr. Romney's claim of having been a job creator during his time at Bain Capital, a private equity firm, and later as governor of Massachusetts. But the tepid job growth in the country for the last two months will likely fuel Mr. Romney's aggressive retort about the current economic situation during Mr. Obama tenure.
Top advisers from both sides have said the economy would be the primary topic of interest during the presidential campaign. But Republicans would like to present the decision as a referendum on Mr. Obama's record in office. The jobs report on Friday provides Mr. Romney new political ammunition in that effort.
House Speaker John A. Boehner called the economic situation in the country "the sad new normal" and blamed it on Mr. Obama. But he said Americans don't have to accept the situation if they vote for Republicans in the fall.
"Republicans have a Plan for America's Job Creators designed to remove the government barriers holding back economic growth and hurting job creation," he said.
In a news conference at the Capitol on Friday morning, Mr. Boehner and Republican lawmakers chastised the president and his Democratic allies in the Congress for failing to pass legislation the Republicans said would create jobs.
"It's clear that the policies that we have seen are not working," Mr. Boehner said. "We've passed over 30 bills that are sitting over in the Senate. It's time for us to change course and have real policies that will put Americans back to work."
Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, said the jobs numbers "are pathetic" and said "I think under the right leadership we can do better."
Mr. Obama is traveling to Minnesota on Friday afternoon where he is expected to call on Congress to pass his "to-do list" of policies that would help create jobs. Asked about the trip, Mr. Boehner mocked it as a campaign trip that would not accomplish anything.
"Instead of a campaign speech, the president might want to engage with Republicans and Democrats here on Capitol Hill," Mr. Boehner said. "The president ought to get out of the badminton game and get into the rugby game that's right in front of him."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INDICTMENTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Elections

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%) Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ERIC CANTOR (74%); JOHN BOEHNER (74%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



49 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton Calls Romney's Business Career 'Sterling'

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Prominent Democrats keep undermining President Obama's central attack on Mitt Romney, in an unusually open show of defiance against the party's presidential nominee. 

 BODY:
Prominent Democrats keep undermining President Obama's central attack on Mitt Romney, in an unusually open show of defiance against the party's presidential nominee.
On Thursday, former President Bill Clinton become the latest and by far the most prominent Democrat to suggest the strategy of criticizing Mr. Romney's career in private equity is misguided.
Appearing on CNN Mr. Clinton described Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain Capital, a Boston private equity firm, as "sterling" - a message directly at odds with that of Mr. Obama's re-election campaign, which has sought to portray the Republican as a rapacious capitalist who is out of touch with ordinary voters.
"I don't think we ought to get into the position where we say this is bad work; this is good work," Mr. Clinton said.
"There's no question that, in terms of getting up, going to the office, and basically performing the essential functions of the office, a man who's been governor and had a sterling business career crosses the qualification threshold," Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Clinton called for the two campaigns to instead focus on their contrasting visions for the country.
During Mr. Romney's time as chief executive of the firm, it bought and sold dozens of companies. Many of those deals, which frequently generated big profits for Bain's investors and partners, resulted in layoffs, in some cases because the companies were in deep distress and in others to cut costs.
The layoffs at Kansas City steel plant owned by Bain became the subject of a searing campaign advertisement produced by the Obama campaign recently.
Mr. Clinton's praise for Mr. Romney's work at Bain puts him in a small but growing camp of Democrats who have challenged the president's strategy.
Cory Booker, the mayor of Newark and a surrogate for the Obama campaign, last week called attacks on private equity "nauseating." (He later backtracked slightly, after Republican's seized on his remarks.)
And this week, Deval Patrick, the governor of Massachusetts, said that Bain Capital was "a perfectly fine company."
The resistance from well-known Democrats highlights the party's ambivalence about picking a fight with an industry whose role in the economy has expanded significantly in recent years and that has traditionally provided huge amounts of campaign contributions to the party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; Democratic Party; Elections

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Democratic Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%) Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



50 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: The White House Strikes 'Recover' From Response to Jobs Report

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: For the last seven months, the White House has blasted out a statement with the verb "recover" or "heal." But the response to the May jobs report? No more healing, no more recovering. 

 BODY:
The anemic jobs report released on Friday was one thing. But here's another worrisome economic indicator: Even the White House written response this month dropped the words "recover" or "heal" in describing the economy.
Each month when the Labor Department releases its employment report, the White House quickly blasts out a statement in the name of Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. And for seven months straight, in every statement since his appointment, Mr. Krueger began with almost exactly the same line:
"Today's employment report provides further evidence that the economy is continuing to heal from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression," the statement has begun each month since the October jobs report. The only variation was that in five of those months, he used the verb "heal," and in the other two he used "recover."
So what was Mr. Krueger's first sentence on Friday in response to the May jobs report? No more healing, no more recovering. Instead, he opened his statement this way: "Problems in the job market were long in the making and will not be solved overnight."
That's not to say that Mr. Krueger or the White House have given up on the economy or think it has stopped recovering. Indeed, President Obama in his public remarks later Friday said, "We knew the road to recovery would not be easy." But the abrupt abandonment of the cut-and-paste optimistic language in the written statement that had been used for so long certainly seems striking given the May numbers. 
In his statement, Mr. Krueger went on to say that "we are still fighting back from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression" and that "the economy is growing, but it is not growing fast enough." Similar to other months, he pointed out that "the economy has added private sector jobs for 27 straight months, for a total of 4.3 million payroll jobs over that period." But he said "our economy is facing serious headwinds, including the crisis in Europe and a spike in gas prices that hit American families' finances over the past months."

        
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Praises New White House Tone
        
President's Club Meets Friday: Obama, Clinton at the White House
        
White House Says President Misspoke on 'Polish Death Camp'
        
Veterans Stick With the Republican Nominee
        
'Super PAC' Continues Attacks on Bain With New Video

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) jobs report; May; obama; White house; Krueger, Alan B; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; White House Council of Economic Advisers; Elections; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%) White House Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%) Krueger, Alan B

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



51 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton Campaigns Against Walker in Wisconsin Recall Election

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY


HIGHLIGHT: The former president says that Gov. Scott Walker has split the state, and that division does not work. 

 BODY:
In a crowded, chilly park in downtown Milwaukee, former President Bill Clinton on Friday urged Wisconsin residents to remove Gov. Scott Walker from office in the state's recall election next week, saying that the Republican governor had split the state and that division, as an overarching political philosophy, doesn't work.
"This is about what's best for you and your kids and your future, but it's also about America," Mr. Clinton said, standing beside Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, the Democrat who is challenging Mr. Walker and who has trailed slightly in public polls.
Mr. Clinton reflected on his visits to the state when he was president, and said he could see a change now.
"For 100 years now, people have looked to Wisconsin from all over this country to see a place of small towns and vibrant cities, to see a place of farmers and factory workers and small-business people, to see a place where there were vigorous political debates, closely held elections and then people got together and figured out what the heck to do," Mr. Clinton told the crowd. "And now, they look at Wisconsin and they see America's battleground between people who want to work together to solve problems and people that want to divide and conquer."
Mr. Clinton ticked off a list of cities around the country that, he said, were seeing signs of economic prosperity even now. All of them, he said, had one thing in common when it came to their political circumstances: "creative cooperation, not constant conflict."
Mr. Clinton is by no means the only national name to appear here for a state recall election that has grown into a race about far more than just Wisconsin. Later in the day, Mr. Walker is to be joined on the campaign trail by Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, one in a long list of high-profile Republican governors who have appeared in the state beside him. Critics of Mr. Walker, who only took office last year, filed hundreds of thousands of signatures on petitions for his recall after he announced plans to sharply cut collective bargaining rights for most public workers in the state in his first months in office.
No other governor in Wisconsin history has faced a recall election, and only two other governors ever have - Gray Davis of California, who was recalled in 2003, and Lynn Frazier of North Dakota, recalled in 1921. If Mr. Walker holds onto his seat, he will be the first governor in the nation to survive a recall election. 
Mr. Clinton's appearance here was viewed as a significant boost among Democrats. President Obama has said he supports Mr. Barrett but has not appeared in the state in person, nor has he sent his top surrogates.
"Ordinarily I'm against recall elections," Mr. Clinton told the crowd. "But sometimes it is the only way to avoid a disastrous course."
Mr. Clinton said Mr. Walker's type of approach would never have worked among the nation's founding fathers. "This divide and conquer, no-compromise crowd - if they had been in control, there never would have been a United States Constitution," Mr. Clinton said. 

        
Wisconsin G.O.P. Sees Insurance in Placeholder Candidates
        
Wisconsin Primary Overshadowed by Recall
        
Wisconsin Democrats Start Drive to Recall Governor 
        
In Wisconsin, Walker Campaign Reports More Than $13 Million Raised Since January
        
Romney Target of April Fool's Joke

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETITIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%) former President Bill Clinton; Gov. Scott Walker; Wisconsin; Clinton, Bill; Haley, Nikki R; Walker, Scott K; Collective Bargaining; Governors (US); Democratic Party; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (94%); BILL CLINTON (94%); NIKKI HALEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Clinton, Bill; Haley, Nikki R; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



52 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 'Thingamajig' Offers Cure for Boredom If Not Economy

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama hopes his economic plan will prompt "thingamajig" purposes, a line that moves Twitter if not the markets. 

 BODY:
If President Obama is often criticized for sounding too professorial, his moment as an absent-minded professor is drawing derision today.
Urging Congress to pass his economic measures in the wake of a disappointing jobs report, Mr. Obama told employees of Honeywell in Golden Valley, Minn., that with extra cash from a refinancing plan, some homeowner might "be replacing some thingamajig for their furnace."
Republicans pounced. (It was the G.O.P.'s rapid response unit that posted the video to YouTube.)
Rick Gorka, Mitt Romney's traveling spokesman, posted to Twitter:
Mr. President, millions of Americans want a job not a "thingamajig." #ObamaIsntWorking
- Rick Gorka (@Rick_Gorka)1 Jun 12
"Thingamajig" was already trending on Twitter when AlexaShrugged, a conservative blogger, started the meme #replacequotewiththingamajig, which started trending worldwide.
"The cost of #thingamajig's will necessarily skyrocket" #replacequotewiththingamajig
- AlexaShrugged (@AlexaShrugged)1 Jun 12
(The original quote, by Mr. Obama in January 2008, is, "Under my plan of a cap-and-trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.")
"Then I thought how ridiculous it would sound in contrast to other presidents & famous quotes," she said in an exchange of direct messages.
Other conservatives, like Redstate's Erick Erickson, got in on the action. (His message was re-posted by Ryan Williams, another Romney spokesman.)
RT @EWErickson: I, Barack Obama, do solemnly swear to preserve, protect, and defend the thingamajig. #replacequotewiththingamajig
- Ryan Williams (@RyanGOP)1 Jun 12
But for others, it was just a remix of the hit song of the summer.
#replacequotewiththingamajig Hey, I just met you, and this is crazy. But here's my thingamajig, so call me maybe?
- Jordan Williamson (@Joorddann)1 Jun 12
Or a botched classic reveal.
"Luke. *I* am your thingamajig." #replacequotewiththingamajig
- Jeff Emanuel (@jeffemanuel)1 Jun 12
However, by early Friday evening, #replacequoteswiththingamajig seemed to be losing out to #replacelyricswithsweat, fleeting as that word for that furnace part.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); UTILITY RATES (52%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; War Room

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



53 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: After a Day of Bad Economic News, an Invitation From Anna Wintour

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's campaign put out a video appeal from Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue magazine, the same day a grim jobs report was released. 

 BODY:
Friday was a day of grim economic news - a jobs report that put an exclamation point on the financial struggles of average Americans.
But it was also the day that President Obama's campaign chose to put out a video appeal from Anna Wintour, the oh-so-fabulous editor in chief of Vogue magazine, inviting supporters to compete for a chance at a dinner with her, the Obamas and Sarah Jessica Parker in New York City.
In the video, Ms. Wintour urges supporters to contribute for a chance at two seats at the dinner. "It'll be a fantastic evening, and you can join us," she says of the "New York Nights" dinner. "Please join us. But just don't be late."
The contrast between the sparkling Big Apple dinner and the dire economic news was quickly noted on Twitter, where one person wrote: "The Obama Anna Wintour thing is BEYOND PARODY."
Sean Spicer, the communications director for the Republican National Committee, wrote: "This is not a joke - on day of disappointing job #s Obama camp releases this video."
The video invitation is the latest example of a technique embraced by the Romney and Obama campaigns: using the promise of dinner with celebrities to raise money from supporters. Mr. Romney's campaign recently dangled a dinner with Donald Trump.
But the timing of the video of Ms. Wintour, coming on the same day as the jobs numbers, might not have been ideal.

        
A Drop in Fund-Raising for the Obama Campaign
        
Veterans Stick With the Republican Nominee
        
'Super PAC' Continues Attacks on Bain With New Video
        
Romney Rejects Using the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Against Obama
        
In Iowa, Romney Warns of a 'Prairie Fire of Debt'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%) Anna Wintour; Campaign Finance; obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Sarah Jessica Parker; Wintour, Anna; Vogue; United States; The Caucus

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) Vogue

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (70%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Wintour, Anna

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



54 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Rose in May, Continuing a Bright Trend

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- While sales of new cars fell short of expectations in May, most automakers still reported solid gains over last year's depressed selling rate, continuing a yearlong trend of growth.
The turnaround has given the auto industry enough confidence to add jobs and increase production, making it a rare bright spot in an otherwise grim employment picture.
Automakers said Friday that they sold 1.33 million vehicles in the United States in May, a 25.7 percent increase over the same month a year ago, although the comparison was skewed because the major Japanese auto companies suffered big shortages of vehicles last year in the aftermath of the tsunami and earthquake in Japan. 
The closely watched, seasonally adjusted annual sales rate was about 13.8 million vehicles, the first time this year that the pace had fallen below 14 million.
Industry analysts were forecasting even better year-over-year increases this May, which had two additional selling days on the calendar than a year ago. They had predicted the annualized sales rate would be 14 million to 15 million.
Yet even with slightly softer sales than expected, the car market has been a consistent bright spot this year.
''May was one of the lowest sales rates since last year, but given what happened last month in the overall economy it could have been much worse,'' said Jesse Toprak, chief market analyst for the research Web site TrueCar.com.
The industry's recovery is producing much-needed results on the jobs front. While employment is stagnant or shrinking in other sectors of the economy, automakers are adding workers to keep up with the healthy demand for new vehicles.
Employment at auto manufacturers and their suppliers increased 6 percent, to 644,000 workers, in the first three months of this year over 2011, according to the most recent data available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The hiring has continued through April and May, as Ford, Chrysler and some of the foreign companies have increased production.
That does not make up, of course, for the hundreds of thousands of jobs that Detroit's Big Three and their suppliers cut during the recession.
But the auto companies have become an unlikely source of new jobs as they try to keep up with the demand for new vehicles from consumers who had previously put off replacing older models.
''The hiring levels are surprisingly strong given the overall national unemployment and sluggish recovery,'' said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst with the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
Ford, for example, has recently added shifts at plants in Chicago, Kansas City, Mo., Louisville, Ky., and Wayne, Mich. The company expects to hire more than 6,500 workers over the course of the year to support the production of an additional 400,000 vehicles in the United States.
Chrysler, the German automaker Volkswagen and the Korean carmaker Hyundai are also increasing employment at American plants.
Much of the higher demand for new vehicles can be traced to the advanced age of existing models on the road. Vehicle registration data shows the average vehicle age at 10.8 years, and the replacement rate is expected to remain strong through this year and into 2013.
''This should keep us going strong for quite a while,'' said Jenny Lin, Ford's senior United States economist.
Better sales, combined with the deep restructurings in recent years, have also produced healthy profits for the car companies. As a result of that, the automakers are pouring money into new models that are attracting more customers.
The auto companies said May's results reflected the broad nature of the resurgence in sales. Virtually every vehicle segment made gains, from small cars to large pickups.
And most of the improvement was accomplished without heavy sales incentives. Incentives increased slightly in May from the month earlier to an average of $2,100 per vehicle -- the same level as a year ago, according to the automotive information Web site Edmunds.com.
Among the largest gains posted in May were at Toyota and Honda, which a year ago were troubled with extensive earthquake-related problems in their supply chains. For the month, Toyota said its sales improved 87.3 percent from a year earlier, and Honda reported a 47.6 percent increase.
Chrysler was once again the standout among the Detroit automakers, reporting a 30.1 percent gain on strong demand for its Jeep sport utility vehicle, Ram pickups and revamped stable of passenger cars. The results represented the 12th consecutive month of year-over-year increases of 20 percent or more.
''In spite of a tremendous amount of global uncertainty, the U.S. new vehicle sales industry continues to power ahead,'' said Reid Bigland, head of United States sales for Chrysler.
Ford reported a 12.6 percent increase in May sales, and G.M. said its sales rose 10.9 percent.
Analysts cited G.M.'s numbers as the most disappointing among the big automakers. But company executives said the introduction of new Chevrolet and Cadillac models later in the year would broaden the company's lineup and spur needed growth.
''We are slowly but surely working our way back to prerecession sales levels,'' said Don Johnson, G.M.'s United States sales chief.
Some analysts expressed concern that falling consumer confidence and a stubbornly high unemployment rate could eventually hurt demand for new cars.
''There may be some payback in June,'' said Mr. Toprak of TrueCar.com. ''But over all, we're seeing a healthy pace of recovery and it is a sustainable pace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toyota Prius
Nissan Altima CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); STATISTICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TSUNAMIS (69%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%); TRUECAR INC (54%)

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



55 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Set, and Left, Adrift

 BODY:
Around the world, some 42.5 million vulnerable people were forcibly out of their homes and on the move in 2011, according to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
There are growing concerns that those numbers will get even worse in the face of armed conflicts and political violence that are increasingly exacerbated by climate change, population growth, rising food prices, natural disasters and struggles for scarce resources.
According to Antonio Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Africa and Asia are the most vulnerable regions. But new crises are appearing unpredictably -- in the past year, thousands have been driven from their homes in Syria, Sudan, Mali, Yemen and Cote D'Ivoire -- and will continue to grow.
Since 2005, the agency's caseload has expanded -- from about 24 million, mostly internally displaced persons and refugees, to roughly 37 million at the end of 2010.
Today's environment is also more chaotic. Instead of negotiating with governments for humanitarian access, the agency often must deal with multiple actors, including warlords and rebels and breakaway regions, even less subject to international pressure, law or shaming. The risk for aid workers and the displaced has increased.
There is also a crisis of political will. The international community, preoccupied with financial and domestic crises, has been less willing to help -- whether with money or diplomacy or offers of asylum. Take the 7.2 million refugees considered to be in ''protracted exile,'' meaning they may never go home again. The report said that everybody involved -- host countries, countries of origin and donors -- ''seem less able to work together to find solutions.''
There are no easy answers, but certain strategies stand out. In 2010, 94 percent of all resettled refugees went to just four countries: Australia, Canada, Sweden and the United States, which takes more than any other country. Surely there are scores of others that can also open their doors. Better systems for predicting crises and quickly responding to natural and man-made disasters would also help. As ever, the best solution is for the world to do a better job of pre-empting conflicts in the first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); FOOD PRICES (56%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); MALI (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



56 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: A Question Before Investing

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at BAM Advisor Services. His book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' was published earlier this year. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog.
On a regular basis, I get asked whether someone should buy a specific investment. I also get asked about the market, the economy and specific things like gold, the Facebook initial public offering or the European debt crisis. 
All of those things are very interesting and they seem to be something we spend a lot of time talking about and debating. But I wonder if our obsession with current events and specific investments focuses on the wrong questions.
What if the better question to ask is, ''Does this investment fit in my plan?'' If your answer is, ''Plan? What plan?'' that gets to a broader issue I'm seeing more often.
While it may be interesting to talk about specific investments, it's far more important to get a plan in place first. Only then should you go looking for specific investments to populate that plan. It's kind of like figuring out where you're going on a trip before you decide the mode of transportation to get there.
When we focus on the wrong question (''should I have gotten in on the Facebook I.P.O.?''), we're more likely to make poor decisions based on short-term thinking and emotion. Instead, we ought to realize that we may not even know the correct answer to the bigger questions about our long-term plans.
We don't know how the most recent I.P.O.'s will perform. We don't know how things will work out with the European debt crisis. We don't know what will happen to the price of gold. But if we have a plan, we can know whether those things have a place in our long-term strategy.
Let's take the I.P.O. example. I would argue that in most sound investments plans, I.P.O.'s rarely fit. Investing in one of them puts you in the position of owning a specific, individual stock as opposed to being diversified. So if you're debating the question of whether to buy, you should do so on the basis of answering the question, ''Does it fit?'' If the answer is no, move on. Go back to what you were doing before, which was, hopefully, enjoying your life.
Depending on your plan and your situation, it may make sense to commit capital to an individual stock or an I.P.O. Perhaps it's important for you to own a small allocation of an individual stock for work reasons, or maybe you just enjoy the idea of having a little ''play money'' to invest. Whatever your reasoning, it needs to be a part of your plan.
It may look like this: I will allow myself to use up to 5 percent (this as an example; your number could be different) of my investments as play money, but I will not allow it to go higher. It is super important to understand the value of having that cap specifically spelled out in your plan.
When we start to make investment decisions in isolation, without understanding the why of those decisions in the context of our lives, we tend to do things emotionally. And emotion makes it that much easier to commit the classic behavioral mistakes, like buying high and then later selling low.
As simple as it sounds, it all really goes back to the idea of asking the right question.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); EURO CRISIS (70%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



57 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Tumbles 2% on Jobs Data

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
In their worst daily performance this year, stocks dropped more than 2 percent on Wall Street Friday, and United States government bond yields fell to record lows as investors sought refuge amid new signs of trouble in the global economy.
The upheaval across markets reflected the resignation among investors that it is safer to stash money in assets that offer hardly any returns than to risk losing the assets themselves. Driving the panic were the usual suspects of the intensifying European debt crisis, a cooling economy in China, and weak employment in the United States and the euro zone. 
The dismal report by the Labor Department showed a net gain of 69,000 jobs in May and an unemployment rate of 8.2 percent, up from 8.1 in April. The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro zone reached 11 percent in March and April, the highest since the European statistical agency, Eurostat, began tracking data for that region in 1995.
Ten-year bonds in some of the European countries seen as relatively safe, like Germany and Britain, also fell to record lows. While the benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields reached a new low of 1.46 percent, the German bund dropped to 1.171 percent and the British gilt fell to 1.529 percent.
The low rates allow governments and corporations to borrow on the cheap, but American investors in 10-year Treasury notes are effectively losing money when factoring in a 2 percent rate of inflation. In Germany, the two-year bond fell below zero -- meaning investors felt safer taking a guaranteed loss than in holding other securities.
''People are very risk-averse right now,'' said Jerry H. Tempelman, an analyst in the capital markets research group of Moody's Analytics. ''What it tells you is investors are anxious and are willing to forgo a lot of potential return for the ability to park their money with what they perceive to be high quality, safe governments.''
In contrast, borrowing costs for Italy and Spain, which have become the center of attention in the festering European banking and sovereign debt crisis, were far higher. They rose earlier in the week but then declined Friday. Italy's 10-year bond was down slightly to 5.711 percent and Spain's dipped to 6.459 percent, though both have risen sharply in recent months.
The jobs report in the United States should have provided ''something of a distraction for the markets, which have had a single-minded focus on the devolving European situation,'' wrote Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott, in a research note. ''Unfortunately, that distraction was extremely disappointing from an economic perspective and is essentially throwing gasoline onto an already raging risk-off fire in the capital markets.''
On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 2.2 percent, or 274.88 points, to 12,118.57. The broader market as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.5 percent, or 32.29 points, to 1,278.04. And the Nasdaq fell 2.8 percent to 2,747.48.
The three indexes were down about 3 percent this week.
The daily decline pushed the Dow negative for the year so far, or down 0.8 percent, while the S.& P. 500 was still ahead about 2 percent for 2012 and the Nasdaq was up 6 percent.
In May, stocks recorded their worst monthly performance this year, with the S.& P. falling more than 6 percent. The Dow shed a net 820 points in May, its worst monthly showing since the same month in 2010.
''Uh oh -- reintroducing recession call?'' said the headline of an economic commentary by Dan Greenhaus, the chief global strategist for BTIG, a financial services firm. He said the American jobs report, ''in the context of every other development, certainly reintroduces'' the possibility of a recession.
In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index closed down 2.4 percent, while the CAC 40 in France fell 2.2 percent. Stocks in Germany slid, with the DAX down 3.4 percent for the day.
Analysts said investors were grappling with data that showed economy activity slowing down in the core and periphery countries of the euro zone, while leaders struggled to keep strapped governments and the banking system afloat.
Petr Zemcik, director of European economics for Moody's Analytics, said he was ''a little surprised'' to see the drop in stocks, although Germany's macroeconomic data has recently been mixed and the top loser among stock sectors on Friday was automobiles, suggesting that the market may be starting to price in a potential hit to exports.
Oil prices sank but gold soared as the bargain-basement interest rates spurred expectations for the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy with another round of asset purchases.
''This week, economic data sparked renewed chatter about further monetary easing by the Fed,'' said James Steel, an HSBC analyst.
''What we can say at a minimum is gold's own fundamentals are reasserting themselves,'' he said. ''It is being sought out by investors not as a safe haven necessarily, but it is attractive in comparison to other assets.''
As an indicator of future volatility, the VIX, officially known as the CBOE Volatility Index, was up to 26, its highest level so far this year. But that is still less than half its level in late 2008 and early 2009 as the financial crisis emerged.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders on Friday at the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 A trader on Friday at the Madrid stock exchange. Debt problems in Europe affect investor activity in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGIO PEREZ/REUTERS) (B7) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); INFLATION (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); EURO CRISIS (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



58 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: A Librarian's Plea to Keep the Stacks of Books

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Public Library Head Faces Critics of Renovation Plan'' (news article, May 23):
During my 30-year career as a reference librarian at the great New York Public Library on 42nd Street, I had the privilege and pleasure, along with my colleagues, to help thousands of people gain access to the collections. Unfortunately, I also witnessed a slow, steady decline in the quality of book delivery service that the public has depended upon for over a century. This decline might accelerate dramatically because the book stacks within the building are threatened with demolition; the books would be sent to offsite storage. 
Library administrators say that the stacks at the 42nd Street library, 88 miles of shelves holding millions of books, need to be gutted so that new reading areas and a circulating library can be built within the space, out of economic necessity. However, architects and scholars are suggesting, with increasing urgency, that alternatives to this plan be considered.
The library's use of an offsite storage facility in Princeton, N.J., is a necessity, given the size of the collections. But books housed there can take up to 24 hours or even longer to arrive at 42nd Street, time that can be critical to researchers, students, journalists and scholars.
I ask that library administrators and trustees instead consider building a new flagship facility either directly behind the main building, facing Bryant Park, or on the site of the nearby Mid-Manhattan Library. Either of these plans would provide for even more comfortable ''people space'' and would prevent further damage to the public's access to the collections.
DAVID SMITH Baldwin, N.Y., May 28, 2012
The writer is one of three staff members honored as a Library Lion in 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (92%); LIBRARIANS (92%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



59 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: After Deadly Italian Quakes, Economic Impact Will Linger

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO; Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting from Rome.

 BODY:
MEDOLLA, Italy -- Until 11 days ago, this district in northern Italy was renowned as the home of some of the world's leading manufacturers of disposable medical devices used for dialysis, transfusion and surgery.
Then the earth shook. First on May 20, and then again nine days later, on Tuesday, when a second earthquake and a series of strong aftershocks reduced this industrial area to a wasteland of closed factories and collapsed warehouses.
''It's all so frustrating,'' Antonio Petralia said as he stood near the closed gate of Eurosets, a midsize company that makes medical devices, including for heart and orthopedic surgery. Eurosets, where Mr. Patralia is scientific technical director, was relatively unscathed in the first quake and had received approval to resume production. ''We are Back!'' its Web site proclaimed, telling customers, prematurely, it turned out, that the earthquake ordeal was over. 
Tuesday's quake killed 17 people, and it left as many as 14,000 people living in makeshift tent camps or sleeping in cars. Beyond that, though, concerns are turning to the grave economic uncertainties for this corner of Emilia-Romagna, an area that is one of Italy's economic powerhouses.
The biomedical district in Medolla and in nearby Mirandola employs about 5,000 people in 90 factories, said Maria Nora Gorni, the president of the sector's trade association. Of the area's 90 companies, including multinationals, 80 have suffered some damage, along with the satellite industries that supply them.
''The biomedical sector has shut down,'' Ms. Gorni said, adding, ''There isn't a family here that doesn't have someone who works in this sector.''
Given that the district produces a large quantity of devices used for dialysis, and other lifesaving instruments, the impact should not be underestimated, she said.
Giovanni Messori, director of the Modena industrialists' association, said 1 percent of Italy's gross domestic product is produced among nine of the region's earthquake-stricken towns, which account for about $3.7 billion in taxes a year. ''It may be a small area geographically, but it is very productive,'' Mr. Messori said.
The economic impact could be even more intense as Italy struggles with its budget problems and the euro crisis.
Eurosets, for one, exports 70 percent of its devices abroad, mostly to the former Soviet republics.
''Six months ago, we had got F.D.A. approval to start exporting to the United States,'' Mr. Petralia said. ''We were going to send our first products in September, now who knows?''
Barely 24 hours after work had resumed following the May 20 quake, the new quake struck around 9 a.m. on Tuesday, sending the company's 110 employees fleeing for safety. The workers escaped with only minor scrapes, but the second floor of the huge warehouse was compromised.
Across the road, four workers at Haemotronic, a company making medical disposables, were crushed when the warehouse roof collapsed on them. On Wednesday, a small crowd gathered under a sweltering sun as firefighters recovered the bodies. Employees looked on with dismay, some hugging each other.
''The problem is that we're being assailed by hospitals asking for their orders, but everything has halted,'' Mr. Petralia said.
Even the company's stock is inaccessible because it was stored in structures that have been declared unstable.
The company is still paying its workers, he said, ''and now we'll have to decide what needs to be done to restart.''
Elsewhere, on the outskirts of Cavezzo, one of the worst-hit towns in Tuesday's quake, hundreds have lost jobs, among them Rossella Ballerini, who worked at a knitwear company.
''We rushed out just in time to see the factory in front of us collapse as if it were made of papier-mache,'' she said, standing to get a hot meal at one of the town's makeshift camps.
Ms. Ballerini fears for her future.
''There was always work,'' she said. ''This was one of Italy's industrial lungs, but we've been dealt a big blow on the work front.''
Prime Minister Mario Monti's government on Wednesday expanded the state of emergency that had been declared after the May 20 quake and announced that it would raise gasoline taxes to help fund quake relief. The government also suspended taxes for residents here and delayed mortgage payments for those whose homes were affected.
But some people said they would not wait for government assistance.
Production continued Wednesday at La Cappelletta, a Parmesan cheese maker in San Possidonio, as farmers with milk arrived as usual.
''Cows need to be milked, earthquake or not,'' said one, Mauro Galavotti.
At a huge warehouse at La Cappelletta, about 30,000 wheels of Parmesan cheese are piled in a messy mountain. About 600,000 wheels in several factories were jolted off their shelves during the two earthquakes, said Igino Morini, a spokesman for the Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese Consortium, but many of them could be recovered or reutilized to make other cheese.
Looking desolately at the mound of cheeses, Maurizio Morini, vice president of the co-op that runs La Cappelletta, estimated the value at 16 million euros, almost $20 million. The total loss to the sector was around 40 million euros, or about $50 million.
''When I first walked in after the earthquake and saw what had happened, I wanted to jump on the first plane to Brazil,'' Mr. Morini said. ''But with the luck I've been having, I'd probably be swept away by a tsunami.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A man, in light shirt, whose son died when an earthquake collapsed an industrial moldings plant in Mirandola, Italy, walked by the building on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Firefighters worked in the debris of a collapsed factory in Medolla, Italy, on Wednesday. A quake on Tuesday killed 17 people in an industrial area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORIO BORGIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); DIALYSIS (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ORTHOPEDICS (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



60 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: The Day's Other Reports Offer Little Clarity

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A variety of statistics on the American economy released on Friday gave a mixed message about near-term prospects for the recovery to continue.
Consumer spending was up, personal income slowed, a manufacturing index fell and construction spending rose. Combined with a bleak unemployment report from the Labor Department and robust sales posted by car companies, reading the resulting scatter of tea leaves was certain to be a challenge for economists.
Consumer spending edged up modestly in April in the United States, the government reported, but personal income growth was the slowest in five months, raising concerns about the ability of Americans to keep spending in the future. 
Consumer spending increased 0.3 percent in April following a revised 0.2 percent gain in March, the Commerce Department said. Americans' income grew 0.2 percent in April, the poorest showing since incomes fell 0.1 percent in November. The April gain was just half the 0.4 percent March rise.
Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity in the United States. Economists hope consumers will keep spending to support further economic growth. But the concern is that incomes have been lagging in this subpar recovery, meaning households have less to spend. The small April income gain will add to those worries.
Worries about income growth will likely increase in light of the separate report Friday showing that the nation created just 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year. The unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in April, the first increase in 11 months. Weak job growth translates into weak income growth.
With consumers spending more in April at the same time their earnings growth slowed, they financed the difference by tapping savings. The savings rate as a percent of after-tax incomes dipped to 3.4 percent, matching a low hit in February.
An index of manufacturing activity grew more slowly in May, according to a separate report, hampered by weaker hiring and declining production. But a measure of new orders rose to a 13-month high, suggesting factory activity would pick up in June.
The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, said its index of manufacturing fell to 53.5 points in May, down from a reading of 54.8 in April. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
A measure of employment in the I.S.M.'s survey slipped from April's level. But it showed that factories are still hiring at a solid pace. Industries reporting growth in May employment included clothing and leather, metals and mineral products.
The Labor Department's employment report showed factories added 12,000 jobs in May.
A gauge of new orders in the ISM survey rose to 60.1, the highest reading since April 2011. That could signal faster production in the coming months.
Manufacturing has been a key source of economic growth since the recession ended in June 2009. The sector has expanded for 34 straight months, according to the I.S.M.'s index.
Construction spending rose 0.3 percent in April, matching an upwardly revised 0.3 percent March gain, as builders increased their work, according to Commerce Department data.
The consecutive gains pushed spending to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $820.7 billion in March. That is 7.6 percent above a 12-year low hit in March 2011. Still, the level of spending is roughly half of what economists consider to be healthy.
Residential construction rose 2.8 percent in April, the best showing in six months, to an annual rate of $256.1 billion. Recent data shows that housing has stabilized after years of weakness following the collapse of the housing boom.
Sales of new homes rose 3.3 percent in April to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 343,000 units, the second highest level in two years. But the sales rate is still just half of the level that economists consider a healthy sales market.
Builders have grown more confident since last fall, in part because more people are expressing interest in buying a home. In May, builder optimism rose to the highest level in five years, according to a monthly index compiled by the builders' group.
Spending on office buildings was up 1.6 percent in April, while spending on commercial facilities, the category that includes shopping centers, increased 1 percent
Spending on government building projects fell 1.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $271 billion in April, the lowest level since December 2006. Governments at all levels have been struggling to deal with huge budget gaps caused by the recession.
Many analysts forecast that home construction will add to overall growth this year, the first time that has happened in five years. But the contribution is expected to be modest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (81%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



61 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Wiring Money, Feeling Squeezed

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
From her job at a packaging factory in Chicago, Patricia Gonzalez cobbles together $70 a month to send to her mother in Guadalajara, Mexico, leaving her less money for groceries. In Boardman, Ore., Raul Esparza, a migrant farmworker, works as many hours as he can to send $50 a week to his children in Mexico City.
Both resent having to pay Western Union a $10 fee to send money abroad and an additional cut to convert dollars to pesos. But these charges have fueled the company's record profits and made it a relative outlier in the financial services industry.
As billions of dollars in fee income has evaporated at the nation's largest banks because of regulations passed in the wake of the financial crisis, the money-transfer industry has escaped the crackdown. 
Soon, however, the companies, which are largely regulated by states, will be subject to new federal rules. Starting in February, they will have to disclose more to customers about transfer fees and currency exchange rates. The rules, part of the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, will also require companies to give customers up to 30 minutes after a transaction to get a full refund.
But consumer advocates are raising alarms that money-transfer companies face fewer restrictions because the rules do not touch the pricing of services.
''You still have a situation where customers are subjected to these predatory products with no cap on fees or exchange rates,'' said Oscar Chacon, the executive director of the National Alliance of Latin American and Caribbean Communities in Chicago.
Money-transfer companies say that they offer an invaluable service for customers who might not have access to traditional banks and who would otherwise have no way of transmitting money to their families.
''The money-transfer industry is very competitive, and consumers have a range of choices for sending money,'' said Tom Fitzgerald, a Western Union spokesman.
Western Union, which dominates the money-transfer market, notes that it already discloses the amount of money being submitted, the exchange rate and the amount that the recipient will receive. It also tells customers that ''in addition to the transfer fee, Western Union also makes money when it changes your dollars into foreign currency.''
MoneyGram, among the largest companies, said, ''We believe the new rules essentially standardize across the industry our existing high level of disclosure, which should benefit anyone wishing to send funds.''
Mr. Esparza, who sends money to his children in Mexico City, said that the $10 fee would not be onerous if he were sending a larger amount, but that it seemed exorbitant for $50. ''Western Union's fees are just too high,'' he said.
Ms. Gonzalez said that even though $10 might not seem like a lot, ''In Mexico, that money goes farther.''
Aside from the transfer fees, Western Union and other similar services profit as they buy batches of currencies at a wholesale rate. The money-transfer companies do not disclose the spreads they benefit from when they set exchange rates.
''It's a big profit center for these companies, borne on the backs of the people who can least afford it,'' said Matthew Piers, a lawyer in Chicago, who successfully brought a lawsuit on behalf of Mexican immigrants against Western Union in 2000 that accused the company of misrepresenting exchange spreads.
Western Union did not admit or deny wrongdoing, but agreed to pay more than $400 million to settle the claims.
Referring to the money it makes off the spread, Western Union said in its 2012 annual filing, ''we generate revenues based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency.''
Western Union received $1.15 billion in so-called foreign-exchange revenue in 2011, up from $910.3 million in 2009.
For Javaid Tariq, a taxi driver in New York City who sends money monthly to his family in Pakistan, the exchange rate is particularly infuriating because of how much money he loses. When he sent $300 to his family in April, he received 89.2 rupees for every dollar, less than the 91.2 exchange rate that he checks each morning, he said. For his family, that means 599 fewer rupees, or more than a week's salary in Lahore.
Frustrated, Mr. Tariq said, ''They are taking this money from the people who can least afford it.''
Analysts expect the market for money transfers to grow. The value of cross-border transfers is expected to reach $437 billion in 2012, up from $387 billion in 2009, according to the Aite Group, a research and advisory firm. In the United States, this is led partly by a growth in transfers to China and India and an influx of immigrants from western and eastern Africa, said Larry Berlin, an analyst with First Analysis in Chicago.
Western Union and rival companies are poised to profit. Western Union, with the largest share of the market at nearly 18 percent, recorded $4.2 billion in transaction fees last year, up 4 percent from 2010. The fees accounted for more than 75 percent of the company's total revenue last year. In the first quarter, profits totaled $247.3 million, up 18 percent from the year-ago period, and for all of 2011, net income was $1.16 billion, up 28 percent from the year before.
Western Union and MoneyGram, which has nearly 4 percent of the money-transfer market, according to the Aite Group, are primarily regulated by the states in which they operate. The new rules, however, fall under the oversight of the new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
In the buildup to the Dodd-Frank rules, Elizabeth Warren, in her former role as a special adviser to President Obama charged with forming the consumer bureau, warned that with money-transfer companies, ''you put your money in and take your chances.''
The central idea behind the new regulations was that having more transparency would promote greater competition and allow immigrants to shop for better rates, said Betsy Cavendish, the executive director of Appleseed, a nonprofit organization focused on policy reform that provided public comment during the rule-making process.
In a February speech to the League of United Latin American Citizens, Richard Cordray, the director of the consumer bureau, emphasized that ''with our rule, we hope to increase competition.''
But competitors have made little progress in penetrating the money-transfer market largely because Western Union has half a million locations in 200 countries and territories, making it more difficult for others to edge in, industry consultants said. Although there was some hand-wringing in the industry during the rule-making, analysts said that disclosure requirements would not significantly dampen the revenue at Western Union.
''There will be some one-time costs, but not anything significant,'' Mr. Berlin said. Western Union, he added, already works to make fees clear to customers.
Already there are signs that competition might be slow to materialize, banking analysts said. They pointed to a growing number of partnerships between Western Union and banks that might have competed for a slice of the business.
Regions Financial, for example, just finished introducing Western Union's money-transfer services through its 1,800 branches. U.S. Bancorp gives customers access to Western Union services through its online banking site.
Immigrant advocates argue that many people do not have time to shop for better rates.
''These are people working who are often working minimum wage jobs with very little savvy or time about where to price-shop,'' said Francis Calpotura, the founder and director of the Transnational Institute for Grassroots Research and Action in Oakland, Calif.
Some immigrants complain that while there might be multiple options to send money from the United States, there are not as many in the countries where their families live.
Mr. Tariq, the taxi driver with family in Lahore, says he must use Western Union to send $300 a month because ''they have a monopoly on stores and are in every post office.''
That makes him feel ''like a hostage,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Javaid Tariq, a cabby in New York, says he is frustrated by the fees he must pay to send money to his family in Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Western Union dominates the market with 500,000 locations around the world, including Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY GERSHOFF/WIREIMAGE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRE TRANSFERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); FARM LABOR (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); PRODUCT PRICING (66%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (84%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (88%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



62 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: How to Make Renewable Energy Competitive

BYLINE: By FELIX MORMANN and DAN REICHER. 
Felix Mormann is a fellow, and Dan Reicher is the executive director, both at Stanford's Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance.

 BODY:
STANFORD, Calif.
Renewable energy needs help. Technological innovation has significantly reduced the cost of solar panels, wind turbines and other equipment, but renewable energy still needs serious subsidies to compete with conventional energy. Today, help comes mostly in the form of federal tax breaks.
These tax incentives, and the Congressional battle over extending them for wind projects beyond the end of this year, mean that other, more powerful policies to promote renewables are not getting the attention they deserve. If renewable energy is going to become fully competitive and a significant source of energy in the United States, then further technological innovation must be accompanied by financial innovation so that clean energy sources gain access to the same low-cost capital that traditional energy sources like coal and natural gas enjoy. 
Two financial mechanisms that have driven investment in traditional energy projects -- real estate investment trusts and master limited partnerships -- could, with some help from Washington, be extended to renewable energy projects to lower their cost and make America's energy future cleaner, cheaper -- and more democratic.
Federal support for renewable energy today consists primarily of two tax breaks: tax credits and accelerated depreciation rates. But both tools have a very limited reach. Only investors with hefty tax bills, typically big banks or corporations, can exploit them to reduce their tax burden. Most potential investors, including tax-exempt pension funds and, importantly, retail investors trading stocks, don't have big enough tax bills to exploit the break. As a result, the few remaining players whose considerable tax bills place them in the market for tax breaks are able to demand returns of up to 30 percent for investing in renewable energy projects -- an investment known as ''tax equity.''
There are better options. They may sound wonky, but they could prove revolutionary.
Real estate investment trusts, or REITs, which are traded publicly like stocks, could tap far broader pools of capital to vastly lower the cost of financing renewable energy. REITs have a market capitalization of over $440 billion while paying shareholders average dividends below 10 percent -- roughly a third of the cost of tax equity investments for renewable energy.
Master limited partnerships carry the fund-raising advantages of a corporation: ownership interests are publicly traded and offer investors the liquidity, limited liability and dividends of classic corporations. Their market capitalization exceeds $350 billion. With average dividends of just 6 percent, these investment vehicles could substantially reduce the cost of financing renewables.
But current law makes using both of these investment vehicles for renewable energy difficult if not impossible. Washington could help in two ways. First, the Internal Revenue Service needs to clarify the eligibility of renewable power generation for REIT financing. Second, Congress needs to fix a bizarre distinction in the tax code that bars master limited partnerships from investing in ''inexhaustible'' natural resources like the sun and wind, while allowing investments in exhaustible resources like coal and natural gas. In 2008, as surging gasoline prices were infuriating American voters, Congress amended the tax code to enable master limited partnerships to invest in alternative transportation fuels like ethanol. We should treat power sources, like wind and solar farms, similarly.
There is hope. Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, plans to introduce a bill to allow master limited partnership investment in renewable energy. This approach is preferable to a recent proposal by Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, and Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, to eliminate this investment option for fossil-fuel projects. Both moves would level the playing field between conventional and renewable energy, but the Coons bill does so by promoting, rather than limiting, economic growth across the energy industry.
These approaches could help renewable energy projects reduce their financing costs up to fivefold. These cost improvements could significantly reduce the price of renewable electricity and, over time, erase the need for costlier subsidies. Of course, making renewable energy eligible for master limited partnership and REIT financing would amount to a new kind of subsidy, because both are exempt from income tax. Indeed, some members of Congress fear that expanding master limited partnerships will erode the federal tax base. We don't think so. Investors in master limited partnerships and REITs still pay taxes on dividends. Moreover, these investments would most likely bring many more renewable energy projects online, actually raising overall tax revenue.
A more valid concern is whether renewable energy master limited partnerships might be abused as tax shelters, reminiscent of what happened in the 1980s California ''wind rush.'' Back then investors cared more about putting turbines in the ground to secure tax credits to lower their tax bill on other income than whether the machines actually produced electricity.
History, however, need not repeat itself. Renewable energy master limited partnerships can guard against such abuse by ensuring that these tax privileges actually result in green electricity.
There's another benefit to expanding the pool of renewable energy investors: It would help democratize, and thus build support for, these new energy sources. Today, all American taxpayers fund renewable energy subsidies, but only a deep-pocketed few can cash in on the tax benefits. Publicly traded master limited partnerships and REITs would empower all Americans to invest and have a stake in the transition to cleaner energy.
Renewable energy has come a long way since the 1970s energy crisis but much work remains. We must complement continued technological innovation with critical financial innovation -- to level the playing field, incentivize growth, reduce subsidies and democratize America's energy future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); WIND ENERGY (90%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (86%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (73%); DEPRECIATION (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); PENSION FUNDS (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



63 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing's Turn for the Worse

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE end of the credit crisis in 2009 was followed by a sharp rise in world trade. Manufacturing helped lead economic recoveries in the United States and elsewhere.
But now, there are signs that trade volumes are losing momentum, particularly in Europe but also in most other developed countries. 
Each month, manufacturers in more than two dozen countries are asked whether business is getting better or not, and the answers are combined into numbers reflecting how widespread improvements -- or declines -- are.
The accompanying charts show the results of one question in those surveys in eight countries -- the United States, China, Japan, Britain and the four largest economies in the euro zone. In late 2010 and early 2011, manufacturers in all those countries reported that export orders were growing. Now, orders are more likely to be falling or, at best, holding their own.
''The story is the collapse of growth,'' said Chris Williamson, the chief economist of Markit Inc., which conducts the surveys. In some countries, particularly the United States, he said, ''it has not yet gone into contraction, but it is close.''
In the survey, which was pioneered in the United States by the Institute for Supply Management, a figure of 50 indicates that the same number of companies report improvement as are reporting the opposite. The higher the figures go, the greater the proportion of companies that are reporting gains.
Markit, a British company, has recently begun releasing results of its own survey in the United States, as well as surveys in other countries. For consistency, the charts reflect that survey, not the one done by the I.S.M.
In the United States, the figure has remained above 50, although by only a little, with the May number coming in at 50.5. But in Germany, the largest economy in the euro zone and until recently the strongest exporter by far, the figures fell below 50 last summer and have stayed there. In May, Germany's reading of 43.0 was below that of Italy, which came in at 47.4. That does not mean Italy is faring better than Germany, only that companies there were less likely to see orders declining in May.
Overall, the American export sector appears to be doing better than most of its competitors. The number most watched in the surveys by Markit and the I.S.M. reflects companies' statements about whether business is improving for them. That figure is low in many countries, but remains relatively high in the United States at 54.0 in the Markit report. The American jobs report on Friday showed another gain in manufacturing employment. The rival I.S.M. survey came in a little lower, but the export orders number was better than the one Markit reported.
Outside the United States, there are exceptions to the gloom. Manufacturers in India continue to report expanding orders from overseas, an indication that that country may be gaining market share in some industries. Ireland, where wages have fallen, also reports more orders coming in. But in most countries, the export sector appears to be losing momentum before consumers can pick up the slack. That is one more challenge for economic policy makers to confront.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Indications of a Trade Slowdown: Surveys of manufacturers in many countries appear to indicate that the trade-led recovery of 2010 and 2011 is stalling out or even reversing. The charts reflect the proportion of manufacturers each month who said export orders are increasing. A figure of 50 indicates as many said orders were growing as said they were declining. A figure well above 50 indicates most said orders were rising, while one well below the figure indicates the opposite. They reflect surveys over the past year in the four largest euro zone countries and in four other major exporters.
 Proportion of manufacturers who said export orders are increasing (Source: Markit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



64 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Plans Big Buyouts For Retirees In Pension

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors said Friday that it would offer lump-sum payments to thousands of white-collar retirees to reduce its pension obligations, which are the biggest in the nation, and would pay Prudential Insurance to take over its pension payments to other retirees.
The changes, which will eliminate about one-fifth of the automaker's pension obligations, are intended in part to increase its appeal to investors. 
Everyone affected by the change is already retired, and many will be able to spend the money without rolling it over into another retirement account, as long as they pay the appropriate taxes. The company is planning to provide extensive financial counseling to help people make the money last through their retirement years.
G.M. is following a similar move by the Ford Motor Company, which announced last month that it would offer retirees the chance to take their pensions as a single big check. Both automakers are seeking to reduce retiree-related costs.
''Clearly pensions have continued to be a significant issue for General Motors,'' said Dan Ammann, G.M.'s chief financial officer, in a conference call with reporters. ''It is important for us to mitigate the growth of these obligations.''
G.M.'s stock price fell 19 cents to $22.01 in trading Friday, a comparatively strong showing on a day when other auto shares and the general market were down significantly.
Philip Waldeck, Prudential's head of pension and structured solutions, called the plan ''a breakthrough transaction.''
''I think over time, others will follow,'' he said.
Shedding pension obligations might indeed be attractive to other companies, especially those with pension plans so large they have started to overshadow the operating business and cause unpredictable fluctuations in cash flows. But for many companies, it would still be too expensive to pay an insurer to take over their pension obligations since pensions can become more costly to provide when interest rates are low, as they are now. G.M. is benefiting from investment changes it made in the last few years to make the value of its pension assets mirror the value of the obligations even when market conditions change.
In addition, legal changes this year allow companies to offer retirees lump-sum payments that have an equivalent economic value to the stream of monthly pensions they replace. In the past, companies had to pay a premium to retirees if they offered lump sums.
Mr. Ammann said that the pension changes announced on Friday would reduce G.M.'s total obligations, currently $134 billion, by $26 billion. Most of the cost will be paid with money the company had already set aside in its pension fund for salaried workers, but G.M. will put in an additional $4 billion from its corporate coffers.
Unionized hourly workers' benefits are unaffected by the changes.
G.M. said that even after sending roughly $29 billion of pension assets to Prudential, it will still have $8 billion of assets in the salaried workers' pension fund. That will leave the plan $2 billion short of the total $10 billion that the company owes its current workers for future pensions. The white-collar workers' pension plan has been frozen already, and officials said their benefits would be unchanged.
G.M. said that in the coming weeks, about 42,000 of its 118,000 retired salaried workers would get letters offering the chance to trade their regular monthly pension checks for a single upfront payment. Those who choose the big check would receive it by September. The conversion factor for calculating the value of the single check was established by law in 2006.
For retirees who do not accept or are ineligible for the lump sum, G.M. will purchase a group annuity contract from Prudential Insurance to pay and administer the continuing benefits.
Mr. Ammann said that G.M. was anxious to transfer the day-to-day management of its obligations to retirees to Prudential. ''It allows us to focus more on our core business, which is building cars and trucks,'' he said.
The lump-sum offers will be made to retirees who left G.M. between October of 1997 and December of last year. The size of the offers will vary by age, health, length of corporate service, and current pension benefits.
G.M. will spend $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion to finance the buyouts, buy the group annuities, and create the new plan for existing salaried workers. The company expects to take a charge of as much as $3.5 billion against earnings in the second half of the year for the changes.
It will also lose about $200 million a year in noncash profits that it was allowed to report because of accounting rules that apply to pensions. Those rules have been controversial among investors because they can allow companies to raise their reported earnings without improving the performance of the business.
Ford, for its part, has said it will offer lump-sum pension buyouts to all of its 98,000 white-collar retirees but has not provided details of the payments or how the offer would affect the company's finances. The first wave of Ford offers is expected in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



65 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: California Cuts Threaten Universities' Reputation

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
LOS ANGELES -- Class sizes have increased, courses have been cut and tuition has been raised -- repeatedly. Fewer colleges are offering summer classes. Administrators rely increasingly on higher tuition from out-of-staters. And there are signs it could get worse: If a tax increase proposed by Gov. Jerry Brown is not approved this year, officials say they will be forced to consider draconian cuts like eliminating entire schools or programs.
For generations, the University of California system -- home to such globally renowned institutions as Berkeley and U.C.L.A. -- has been widely recognized as perhaps the best example of what public universities could be. Along with the California State University system and the state's vast number of community colleges, higher education options here have long been the envy of other states.
But after years, and even decades, of budget cutbacks from the state, that reputation is under increasing threat. University leaders, who had responded typically to earlier budget cuts with assurances that their institutions were still in top form, now are sounding the alarm. In trying to rally support, they openly worry that their schools do not offer the same quality of education as a decade ago. 
''I'd be lying if I said what we offer students hasn't been changed and that there hasn't been a degradation of the learning environment,'' said Timothy White, the chancellor of the University of California, Riverside, which has had record growth in recent years. Last year, plans to open a medical school on the campus were shelved after state budget cuts.
While there are more students than ever, the number of academic advisers has dropped to 300, from 500 a few years ago, for more than 18,000 undergraduates. Courses that used to require four writing assignments now demand half that because professors have fewer assistants to help them with grading papers, something other campuses have implemented as well.
While no one is arguing that cutting higher education spending is a good thing, some say that the state budget crisis makes it necessary -- and may provide an opportunity for needed changes.
Jon Coupal, the president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which strongly opposes the proposed tax increase, said the colleges should do more to show they are cutting spending, like reducing pay for top administrators or closing programs that do not directly benefit the state.
''We've had the luxury in prior years of heavily subsidizing colleges,'' Mr. Coupal said. ''But like anything in California, the delivery of higher education is not performance based. They've created new campuses and programs based on politics and not need.''
Chancellor White and others say the concerns about the budget cuts are beyond academic. For generations, the universities have been economic engines for the state, graduating hundreds of thousands of students each year. At every level, the universities are receiving more applicants than ever. But without more state money, colleges are struggling to find room for eligible students.
Nathan Brostrom, executive vice president of business operations for the University of California, said the system was now in the middle of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. In the last year, the state has cut $750 million from the system's budget. This year, for the first time, the system receives more money from tuition than from state aid -- but that only makes up for roughly a quarter of the cuts from the state. Over all, the budget is the same as it was in 2007, when there were 75,000 fewer students enrolled.
In recent years, many campuses have made a more concerted effort to recruit out-of-state students, who pay more in tuition. But some have criticized the practice, and last month one state lawmaker introduced legislation to cap the number of out-of-state students.
Part of the problem, officials say, is that the amount of money provided by the state has been unpredictable, making long-term planning difficult.
''If we don't get some kind of change this year, we are going to have an immediate unfathomable situation that really has the potential to completely change the university,'' Mr. Brostrom said.
The University of California system is made up of 10 campuses, including Berkeley and U.C.L.A., both ranked by U.S. News in the top 25 of all national universities, public or private. The California State University system, with lower tuition and easier admission requirements, is even larger, with 23 campuses and roughly 425,000 students.
Now, all but seven of the Cal State campuses are considered ''impacted,'' which means they have stricter admission criteria for applicants applying from outside the immediate area. Five years ago, only five campuses held such a distinction. Many students who attend Cal State campuses live at home to save money, which often means that if they are unable to attend a campus within driving distance they will not enroll.
The financial picture will grow even more dire if the tax increase backed by Governor Brown does not pass in November. The president of the University of California and the chancellor of California State University are both urging voters to approve the increase, saying that any more cuts would mean irreparable harm.
As it stands, community colleges will not receive the same level of financing as they did in 2007 until 2014. If voters approve the governor's tax proposal, they stand to receive $300 million more this year, but they will lose another $300 million if the tax increase is rejected.
''We just have to get behind this initiative,'' Jack Scott, the community colleges chancellor who is retiring this year, urged his colleagues in a conference call last month. ''This is no time to quibble about whether the governor's initiative is exactly what it ought to be or that you would change it here and there.''
In the last rounds of cuts, ''campuses have tightened their belts so much that there is no more tightening to be done,'' said Lawrence Pitts, academic provost for the University of California. Already, he said, the system is ''certainly not providing the nature of education that we have in the past, in terms of breadth and depth, and that is something that has us terribly concerned.''
Another cut would mean contemplating things that have long been sacrosanct, like shuttering departments or eliminating an engineering school from one campus. ''Nobody wants to think about those things, but we're beyond the point of finding efficiencies to make up for the losses,'' Mr. Pitts said.
While poor students are still able to obtain financial aid, tuition increases mean that the state's colleges may no longer be the best choice for the middle class, said Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who is on the board of trustees for the U.C. and Cal State systems. ''This is the code red we're in,'' he said. ''We're not cutting into muscle or tissue, we're cutting into artery.''
In one recent meeting about the Cal State budget, Mr. Newsom said, some raised the possibility of shutting down a campus, saying it could save anywhere between $44 million and $134 million, but the idea was quickly dismissed. The system has had to cap enrollment numbers statewide to deal with the cuts.
''We're not replacing library books, we're not providing the kinds of student services that we need to, we're not providing the kind of health care that we need to,'' said Charles B. Reed, the chancellor of the Cal State system who recently announced his retirement. ''This is supposed to be our work force for the state. We go down this road and we're looking at an ugly Russian winter for the economy.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 05, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A subheading on Saturday with an article about the potential cutbacks to the described incorrectly the proposal from Gov. Jerry Brown that will need to pass in order stave off any drastic changes. It is a proposed tax increase, not a tax cut.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: University of California, Riverside, students in a psychology class that has an enrollment of 570. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



66 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Sag in Economy Could Reshape '12 Campaigns

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and MARK LANDLER; Jonathan Weisman reported from Washington and Mark Landler from Golden Valley, Minn. Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The weak employment report on Friday held the potential to reshape the presidential campaign, members of both parties said, lifting Mitt Romney's efforts to make the race all about President Obama's handling of the economy and making it harder for Democrats to break through in their efforts to define Mr. Romney on their terms.
On Capitol Hill, the signs of a slowdown focused new attention on the economic implications of the partisan standoff over tax and spending policy. On the campaign trail, both sides saw the news as a potential turning point in a critical battle at this stage. The race may be a referendum on Mr. Obama, as Republicans want, or, as Democrats prefer, a choice between a president nursing the economy back to health and a challenger who represents the failed policies that caused the crisis in the first place.
Democrats in particular were left off balance, sensing that most of their policy ammunition has been spent and that Republicans have nothing to gain politically from lending a hand on a compromise that could spur economic growth this year. 
''It's going to be a close election. Everybody's worried,'' said Representative Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee. ''We've already floored the accelerator. We've already gripped the steering wheel. I'm not sure they're attached to anything anymore.''
At a stop in Minneapolis, Mr. Obama renewed his call on Congress to enact measures to revive the economy, warning that they were needed not only to shake the United States out of its torpor, but to act as a buffer against storm clouds in Europe.
''Our economy is still facing some serious headwinds'' from high gas prices and the financial crisis in Europe, he said from a factory floor at Honeywell International. Europe, in particular, he said, is ''having an impact worldwide and is starting to cast a shadow on our own'' recovery.
Mr. Romney fired back that the president was simply finding a new way to deflect blame for an economic malaise that his policies were prolonging. His campaign said that Mr. Romney's core message that it was time for a change in economic stewardship would resonate more clearly among voters.
''This is the race that we came ready to run,'' said Stuart Stevens, Mr. Romney's chief strategist. ''This is the race that we believed we would be in.''
The signs that the recovery is being derailed could further complicate maneuvering over the fiscal cliff the federal government faces at the end of the year. The government faces nearly $8 trillion in higher taxes and automatic spending cuts when all of the Bush-era tax cuts expire at the same time that $1.2 trillion of automatic spending cuts on military and domestic programs go into force in January.
Republicans have called for an extension of all those tax cuts and a cancellation of the military cuts, and said Friday that a weaker economy would make it all the more urgent to avoid tax increases this year. Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats favor allowing tax cuts for the rich to expire and have stood firm on the automatic cuts.
''Instead of another campaign speech, the president might want to engage with Democrats and Republicans here on Capitol Hill to handle the big policies that are affecting our economy,'' the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, said, citing the looming tax increases and spending cuts and the growing national debt.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, said Friday that she saw no reason for Democrats to drop their insistence on allowing the Bush-era tax cuts to expire for upper-income households.
''Take the matter at hand and deal with it,'' she said of the expiring tax cuts. ''End the high-end tax cuts. They are deepening the deficit. They are not creating jobs. They have to go.''
Democrats are clearly worried. Senate and House Democratic strategists say many of their candidates in tough races cannot win if the president loses, and they said Mr. Obama's message had drifted too often away from the economy toward issues intended to appeal to narrow groups, like the Violence Against Women Act, student loan subsidies and gay marriage.
Democrats said that Mr. Obama needed to refocus on job creation and amplify the message that much of his jobs program had been thwarted by Republicans.
''He needs to call the Republicans out,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland. ''He needs to remind people he got zero help rescuing the economy when he came to office, and on these new jobs bills, the Republicans are simply trying to run out the clock.''
Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, said Mr. Obama would have to work harder to make his case that the economy was recovering, even if the recovery is less robust than everyone had hoped.
''This is a contest of how we frame the economic question. The Republicans want to frame it one way; the White House wants to do it another way,'' Mr. Connolly said. ''There are going to be bumps along the way, no question about it. This month is a bump.''
Senate Democrats, seeking to amplify the White House message or keep it on track, have laid out their own plans to stay focused on jobs. This month, they will try to pass a tailored tax cut for small businesses that hire new workers or expand existing payrolls as a counter to a House-passed 20 percent tax cut for nearly all businesses. Then just before the July 4 recess, they will press for a measure to close off tax breaks they say benefit businesses that ship jobs overseas.
''We want to see the response by our Republican colleagues,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''They blame the president for not creating jobs, then they block everything he proposes.''
But some conservative Democrats are clearly shifting away from their leaders' agenda. Representative Jim Matheson of Utah, one of the most endangered Democratic incumbents this fall, said he would press to increase oil and gas production on federal lands, a crucial talking point of Republican leaders. And later this month, he is likely to vote for extension of all the Bush-era tax cuts that are set to expire Jan. 1.
''Having more certainty would be much better for job creation,'' he said.
The frustration extended beyond endangered conservatives.
''We've really got ourselves to blame,'' said Jared Bernstein, former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., referring to the gridlock between the White House and Congress. ''This could have been avoided if they took out some insurance against precisely this kind of anemic, fits-and-starts recovery,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
David Axelrod, a senior strategist for the Obama campaign, said Republicans risked ''overplaying their hand'' if they appeared to welcome bad news. But weak hiring, rising unemployment and a plunging stock market might as well have been heaven sent. Steven Law, the president of Crossroads GPS, a Republican ''super PAC'' working against Mr. Obama, said that in focus groups, swing voters who backed Mr. Obama in 2008 said they were already dubious about whether the president could do anything to repair the economy.
''Voters are near a point in concluding that President Obama simply can't get it done on the economy,'' Mr. Law said. ''If they conclude that, it becomes very hard to erase and even harder to paint his adversary as an unacceptable alternative.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, at a stop at Honeywell International on Friday said, ''Our economy is still facing some serious headwinds.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The House speaker, John A. Boehner, said the president should focus on issues like spending cuts and the national debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); REFERENDUMS (69%); EURO CRISIS (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (53%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (53%); HON (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); JIM COOPER (71%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



67 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Prohibitions by the People, for the People

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
New York may be the world's greatest city, but it abounds with menaces to the public health and well-being. So when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed banning the sale of large sugary drinks at restaurants and other places, City Room took the opportunity to ask readers to suggest other things that ought not to be allowed. 
Here are a few of the nearly 300 substances, practices and persons you earmarked for prohibition. For which we thank you.
Car alarms
Crocs
Bad pizza
Lower back tattoos on women
Unemployment
Passing gas on the subway
Pedestrians with umbrellas that are wider than they are tall
Sidewalk preachers
Fedoras
Applying makeup while driving
Lax oversight of expensive city contracts
Movie ads, in subways and on billboards, that prominently feature guns
Investing city pension assets in the secondary security market
Using the East Side Heliport on weekends
Horseback riding
Republicans
Democrats
Children
Dogs
James Dolan
Kenny G.
Patchouli
Psychics
Eating, if you're fat
Not eating, if you're skinny
Plastic shopping bags
Cell yell
Traffic enforcement agents' cars blocking traffic to write tickets
Cheap plastic fluorescent backlit signs
Killing animals in shelters
Lethal ammunition in the firearms of police officers on patrol
Scam sexual enhancement pills at bodega checkouts
Cab drivers asking you what route you want to take and then debating your choice
Waiters and waitresses sharing their personal feelings about chosen menu items
Ugly doors on architecturally significant schools and public buildings
Public nose picking
Jorts
Ketchup at hot-dog stands
Handbags designed to carry dogs
Stopping to converse in the middle of a busy sidewalk
Transit officials who don't depend on public transportation enacting route changes and fare hikes
Anyone the mayor met at a cocktail party from running a city agency
Sitting in the window of Starbucks with a laptop, headphones and wearing sunglasses during normal, weekday business hours.
Yankees caps in the colors of other teams
Bottled water
Telemarketing calls to cellphones.
Storefront teeth-whitening shops
Grocery store fliers
Sealed windows in office buildings
Motorcycles without mufflers
Large restaurant entrees
Fat shoelaces
Unprovable statistics
Strollers on public transit
Seventh grade
Sex
Fish with bones in them
Getting old
Poverty
Sarcasm
After-shave
News conferences
Stupid laws
Self-financing of campaigns for public office
Doughnuts
Third terms for mayors
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LARS LEETARU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); RETAILERS (77%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (75%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TELEMARKETING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (72%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); HORSES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



68 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Oops Dept.: An Ill-Timed Dinner Offer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Friday was a day of grim economic news - a jobs report that put an exclamation point on the financial struggles of average Americans. 
But it was also the day that President Obama's campaign chose to put out a video appeal from Anna Wintour, the oh-so-fabulous editor in chief of Vogue magazine, inviting supporters to compete for a chance at a dinner with her, the Obamas and Sarah Jessica Parker in New York City.
In the video, Ms. Wintour urges supporters to contribute for a chance at two seats at the dinner. ''It'll be a fantastic evening, and you can join us,'' she says of the ''New York Nights'' dinner. ''Please join us. But just don't be late.''
The contrast between the sparkling Big Apple dinner and the dire economic news was quickly noted on Twitter, where one person wrote: ''The Obama Anna Wintour thing is BEYOND PARODY.''
Sean Spicer, the communications director for the Republican National Committee, wrote: ''This is not a joke - on day of disappointing job #s Obama camp releases this video.''
The video invitation is the latest example of a technique embraced by the Romney and Obama campaigns: using the promise of dinner with celebrities to raise money from supporters. Mr. Romney's campaign recently dangled a dinner with Donald Trump.
But the timing of the video of Ms. Wintour, coming on the same day as the jobs numbers, might not have been ideal.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%)

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



69 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: How Slow Can It Go?

 BODY:
There are two unavoidable conclusions from the May jobs report: The slow economy is getting slower, and there is no help on the way.
Republicans in Congress seem more determined not only to block any boost that President Obama wants to give the economy, but they are preparing to take the nation's credit rating hostage again over the debt ceiling. Mitt Romney, the Republican presumptive presidential nominee, has no new ideas.
The statistics on Friday were daunting. Only 69,000 jobs were created last month, far lower than what's needed just to keep up with population growth. The job tallies for March and April, shabby to begin with, were revised down, for an average monthly tally of 96,000 over the past three months, versus 252,000 in the prior three months. 
The weakness was not only displayed in job growth. Average weekly wages declined in May, to $805, as a measly two-cents-an-hour raise was more than clawed back by a drop to 34.4 hours in the length of the typical workweek.
Similarly, the rise in the number of people looking for work is normally considered a sign of optimism, but, on closer inspection, it appears to be simply the reversal of a drop in job-seekers in April.
Granted, it is better for jobless workers to be actively looking for work than sitting on the sidelines. But without enough jobs to go around, the inevitable result is higher official unemployment. The jobless rate ticked up from 8.1 percent in April to 8.2 percent in May, or 12.7 million people. Of those, 42.8 percent, or 5.4 million people, have been out of work for more than six months, a profound measure of personal suffering and economic decline.
There's no sign that Washington is prepared to shoulder this responsibility. President Obama's last big push for job creation, the $450 billion package proposed last fall, would have created an estimated 1.3 million to 1.9 million jobs by providing aid to states for teachers and other vital public employees, investments in infrastructure and tax breaks for new hiring. It was filibustered by Senate Republicans and not brought up for a vote in the Republican-dominated House, with Republican lawmakers claiming that deficit reduction was more important. Since then, they have balked at even smaller administration proposals, like modest investments in clean-energy projects.
Blocking constructive action is bad enough, but it's not the worst of it. Recently, the House speaker, John Boehner, has ratcheted up economic uncertainty by pledging to force another showdown this year over legislation to raise the debt ceiling. A debt-ceiling debacle would come on top of the expiration at the end of 2012 of the Bush-era tax cuts and the onset of some $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts. If allowed to take effect as planned, those measures would take a huge bite out of growth, further weakening the economy.
More uncertainty means less consumer and business confidence -- and less hiring.
In response to the jobs report, Mr. Romney scoffed at Mr. Obama's campaign slogan, ''forward,'' saying the president was leading the nation backward. In fact, the way forward has been blocked, time and again, by Republicans pushing the same tax-cut and deregulatory policies, now espoused by Mr. Romney, that have failed in the past to spur the economy.
In the meantime, millions of Americans need jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); WORK WEEK (72%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



70 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Obama Turns to Congress for Jobs Help

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; John H. Cushman Jr. contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
GOLDEN VALLEY, Minn. --Stung by a new report showing that the nation's job market is sputtering, President Obama made a new appeal Friday for Congress to enact measures to revive the economy, not only to shake the United States out of its torpor but to act as a buffer against storm clouds in Europe.
In a speech on a factory floor here that mixed familiar proposals with a new sense of foreboding about the coming months, Mr. Obama said that ''our economy is still facing some serious headwinds'' from high gas prices and the financial crisis in Europe, which he said was ''having an impact worldwide and is starting to cast a shadow on our own as well.''
''We've got a lot of work to do before we get to where we need to be,'' Mr. Obama said to a friendly crowd at a Honeywell plant outside Minneapolis. ''The economy is growing again, but it's not growing as fast as we want it to grow.'' 
Mr. Obama did not dwell on the unexpectedly bleak May jobs report showing a rise in unemployment and a net gain of only 69,000 jobs, trends that could pose a genuine threat to his re-election hopes. As he has in the past, he searched for a silver lining in the data, noting that the private sector had generated 4.3 million new jobs since the depths of the recession.
But the president conceded that the pace of job creation was too slow, and he tempered expectations that it would pick up any time soon.
With Europe scrambling to avert a calamitous unraveling of the euro, Mr. Obama said Congress needed to pass the remaining provisions in his $447 billion jobs bill to fortify the economy, ''in case Europe gets any worse.'' Until recently, administration officials had played down Europe's impact on the recovery in the United States.
It was a subtle yet unmistakable change in tone for a president who has steadfastly maintained since last year that the economy is on the mend, refusing to be spooked by the vagaries of the monthly jobless report, whether good or bad.
''From the moment we first took action to prevent another Great Depression,'' Mr. Obama said, ''we knew the road to recovery would not be easy, we knew it would take time, we knew there would be ups and downs along the way.''
The president seized on Europe's woes as an additional goad to Congress to take action on his proposals, saying, ''We can't fully control everything that happens in other parts of the world. But there are plenty of things we can control at home.''
While the global economy is becoming turbulent -- not just in Europe, but in China, where growth has also slowed, and India -- some economists attributed Friday's numbers to the impasse in Washington, which they said had stymied fiscal stimulus.
''We've really got ourselves to blame,'' said Jared Bernstein, former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''This could have been avoided if they took out some insurance against precisely this kind of anemic, fits-and-starts recovery.''
Mr. Bernstein, who is now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said he hoped the president would make that case more forcefully to the American people. ''America needs to know why we're in the situation we're in,'' he said. ''This isn't about Europe. This isn't about China. This is a self-inflicted wound.''
But the president was no more combative than usual toward the Republican-controlled House, suggesting that the situation is dire enough that it may call for cooperation rather than another round of finger-pointing.
''It's not lost on anyone that it's an election year,'' Mr. Obama said, prompting scattered chants of ''Four More Years'' from the audience of 1,700. ''I've noticed. But we've got responsibilities that are bigger than an election.''
In Washington, meanwhile, the two sides in Congress blamed each other for the impasse.
Republicans were quick to attribute the weak economy to what Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican whip, called ''a complete lack of leadership from the president and Senate Democrats.''
''Our job creators are looking to Washington for leadership on the economic and fiscal challenges we face, and not a gimmicky to-do list on a Post-it note,'' Mr. McCarthy said.
But the Democrats threw the blame right back.
''This morning's jobs report shows that Congressional Republicans' do-nothing, confrontation-over-compromise approach to jobs isn't working,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip.
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, said the Republicans would barrel ahead with the kind of legislation that the House has been passing but that has gone nowhere in the Senate, where Democrats are in the majority.
''The House has passed more than 30 jobs bills to expand energy production and approve popular projects like Keystone XL, eliminate excessive federal red tape, repeal laws like Obamacare that are making it harder for small businesses to hire new workers, and more,'' he said.
The Republicans are taking the same agenda on the election trail, as their House campaign committee's message focused on characterizing the Democratic approach as ''reckless spending habits'' and a ''hyper-regulatory regime.''
For its part, the Obama campaign insisted it would not deviate from its current strategy, which combines a robust defense of the president's economic record with a sustained assault on Mitt Romney. It is airing a $25 million advertising campaign that promotes the auto bailout and the rebound of once-depressed sectors like manufacturing.
The campaign said it would keep aiming at Mr. Romney for his record at the private-equity firm Bain Capital and as governor of Massachusetts. In Florida and Nevada, where the jobless rate is higher than the national average and foreclosures are legion, the campaign plans to highlight differences between Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama on housing.
Minnesota is safe ground for Mr. Obama, with a Democratic-leaning population and a jobless rate of less than 6 percent. His speech here began what has become a weekly slog of campaign fund-raisers: on Friday evening three in Minneapolis and three in Chicago, where he will spend the night in his own house.
Veterans have a central place in the president's job creation plans. Mr. Obama again pushed Congress to pass his Veterans Job Corps, a $1 billion, five-year initiative that aims to help soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get jobs as police officers, firefighters, rescue workers or national parks rangers.
Mrs. Obama, along with Jill Biden, the wife of the vice president, has prodded private employers like Honeywell to hire 100,000 veterans. Honeywell, administration officials said, responded enthusiastically, hiring more than 900 since 2011. Many returning soldiers, they said, were well trained for the highly technical work in this factory, which makes precision instruments used by the Navy. Mr. Obama toured the plant before his speech.
As part of its latest push, the White House issued a report on the job market for veterans, which officials said contained promising news. The jobless rate for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, which had been 12 percent -- well above the national average -- has fallen to below 9 percent (the national jobless rate ticked up to 8.2 percent in May).
With little chance of Congressional action on his legislation, Mr. Obama also announced an initiative, under the ''We Can't Wait'' label, to help veterans obtain licenses and certification for highly skilled jobs. The measure, the president said, would help 126,000 veterans get the necessary licenses to compete for jobs.
''No one who fights for this country should ever have to fight for a job when they come home,'' Mr. Obama said to applause.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



71 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Weak Hiring May Sway The Fed to Act Again

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The odds surely increased Friday that the Federal Reserve will ride again to the rescue of the faltering economic recovery, making borrowing a little cheaper for a little longer, as it has done repeatedly over the last four years.
But the government's announcement that employers added only 69,000 workers in May also highlights a less comfortable reality: The economy seems unable to wean itself from dependence on the Fed's flow of aid. It keeps coming back for more.
What began as a one-time jolt in 2008, an unprecedented effort to revive economic activity, has become an uncomfortable status quo, an enduring reality in which savers are punished and borrowers rewarded by a permafrost of low interest rates.
And the Fed, acutely uneasy with this new role in the American economy, may now find itself unable to avoid doubling down. 
Although Fed officials have said repeatedly that they were reluctant to expand what has already been a substantial campaign to stimulate growth, the slowing rate of job creation suggests that they have not done enough. And there's little prospect that Congress will rise to the occasion.
A Morgan Stanley economist and former head of the Fed's monetary policy division, Vincent Reinhart, said Friday that the odds had climbed to 80 percent that the Fed's policy-making committee would announce new measures at its next meeting in three weeks.
The most likely option: buying several hundred billion dollars of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities in a fourth round of purchases that could expand the Fed's portfolio to $3 trillion, a once-inconceivable sum.
In a note published after the jobs report, Mr. Reinhart said the central bank was likely to act unless it was paralyzed by internal conflicts, ''or the unlikely event that the situation in Europe is clarified in a positive way surprisingly soon.''
Other analysts doubt that the Fed will act so soon as June. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman, and other senior officials have made clear that the trajectory of economic growth must shift substantially before the Fed adjusted its current policies.
''As long as the U.S. economy continues to grow sufficiently fast to cut into the nation's unused economic resources at a meaningful pace, I think benefits of further action are unlikely to exceed the costs,'' William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said Wednesday. Mr. Dudley's remarks received particular attention because he is the vice chairman of the Fed's policy-making committee, and is generally careful to remain publicly consistent with Mr. Bernanke.
It seems unlikely that one month of jobs data will be sufficient to cause him to shift on such an explicit judgment, but the news on Friday was worse than one month of bad numbers. The government also significantly reduced its estimate of job creation over the last few months, creating an impression of a longer-term trend of slowing growth.
Moreover, the news from the rest of the world has been grim. Europe continues to flirt with crisis, and the growth of emerging economies like China and India is showing disconcerting signs of an inopportune slowdown.
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Eric Rosengren, said Wednesday for the first time that the Fed should act. ''I believe further monetary policy accommodation is both appropriate and necessary,'' Mr. Rosengren said. ''The U.S., like many other countries, needs to facilitate a more rapid recovery.''
While Mr. Rosengren does not hold one of the 12 votes on the policy-making committee this year, his remarks suggest that Fed officials who pressed for action last year, then fell silent earlier this year, are once again growing restive.
On the other hand, the American economy continues to add jobs, and a revised estimate of economic activity in the first quarter, which the government published Thursday, provided further evidence of consistent, if mediocre, growth.
Fed officials also are concerned that their policies cannot fix some of what is ailing the economy. Low interest rates make no difference to borrowers who cannot qualify to refinance or businesses that cannot persuade banks to take risks. Each successive round of Fed interventions has produced a diminishing return as interest rates are compressed toward zero. Inflation has remained at roughly 2 percent a year, the level the Fed regards as healthy.
Mr. Bernanke may provide greater clarity when he testifies Thursday before Congress's Joint Economic Committee. In the meantime, some Fed watchers said that they thought the central bank would wait as long as possible before acting.
Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics, said the prospect of action was not ''the near-certainty that some commentators seem to believe.''
The Fed's choices will be made against the backdrop of a presidential campaign whose outcome may be determined by the health of the economy. Already the Fed faces loud demands from liberals to act forcefully, and anger from conservatives over the measures that it has taken already. It seems likely that whatever choices it makes will draw fresh anger, which could actually provide its own peculiar kind of insulation.
There are limited options for additional action. The Fed generally guides the economy by adjusting short-term interest rates, but it has held rates near zero since December 2008, and has said that it planned to keep rates near zero until late 2014, at least. Even an extension of that promise would have little impact on interest rates.
That leaves bond purchases, the Fed's major tool during the current crisis. In 2009 and 2010, the Fed bought more than $2 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities, forcing private money into investments that carried higher risks and driving down borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.
More recently, the Fed has sold short-term Treasuries to finance the purchase of $400 billion in long-term Treasuries, putting further downward pressure on long-term rates without expanding its portfolio. Those purchases end in June.
The forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers said that it would be difficult for the Fed to extend that strategy, nicknamed Operation Twist, because it is running out of short-term Treasuries and risks cornering the market for long-term Treasuries, which are used as grease and ballast in a wide range of transactions.
Instead, Macroeconomic Advisers said that the Fed would have to return to expanding its portfolio, a policy that most likely would include new purchases of mortgage-backed securities, in part to focus the impact on driving down the interest rates on mortgage loans.
''If they do anything, more likely it would be these outright purchases,'' said Antulio Bomfim, a managing director at the firm and a former Fed economist.
He said the firm still was updating its forecast of what the Fed would do next, but added that the situation clearly was deteriorating. Looking out the window of his Washington office on a day of storm clouds and tornado warnings, he said, ''The weather outside certainly seems consistent with the economic data.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Analysts hope that Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman, will offer some clarity when he testifies Thursday before Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



72 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Congress Point Fingers Over Jobs

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama, facing some of the worst economic indicators in many months, on Friday urged members of Congress not to ''sit on your hands'' and to pass the tax breaks and spending programs that he has been pushing for months to increase the pace of job formation.
Among other things, he called for aid to cash-strapped states to prevent layoffs of public employees, passage of a transportation bill, and extension of tax preferences for green energy projects. 
''This is a problem we can fix,'' he told workers at a Honeywell factory in Minnesota, conceding that the latest job numbers were far from satisfactory. ''Let's do it right away.''
But with the latest economic data flashing warning signs that the economy was cooling, the immediate reaction from Congressional leaders signaled little movement toward breaking the long, partisan deadlock over fiscal policy.
Both sides know that if Congress does nothing, a fiscal cliff lies ahead at the turn of the year, in the form of automatic and widespread spending cuts and tax increases, a course that would satisfy nobody and would, many economists fear, make a weak economy worse.
On Friday morning, both sides in Congress blamed each other for the impasse.
''Economic uncertainty continues to hold back private sector growth and new hiring,'' said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican whip, after a remarkably weak jobs report on Friday followed a downward revision on Thursday of the first quarter's economic growth.
Republicans were quick to attribute the weak economy to what Mr. McCarthy called ''a complete lack of leadership from the president and Senate Democrats.''
But the Democrats threw the blame right back.
''This morning's jobs report shows that Congressional Republicans' do-nothing, confrontation-over-compromise approach to jobs isn't working,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip.
''Republicans continue to avoid addressing serious job creation in favor of ideological bills,'' he said. ''This is deeply disappointing, as we were able to work together in May to pass a bipartisan reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank.''
The White House issued a statement from Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, calling on Congress to ''continue the president's economic policies that are helping us dig our way out of the deep hole that was caused by the severe recession.''
''This includes eliminating tax incentives to ship jobs overseas, cutting red tape so responsible homeowners can refinance, giving small businesses that increase employment or wages a 10 percent income tax credit, investing in affordable clean energy, and helping returning veterans find work,'' he said -- a litany that Mr. Obama has been calling his ''to-do list.''
But Mr. McCarthy and other Republicans were dismissive, saying that neither the economic stimulus nor any of the White House's proposals that have made their way through Congress so far had gotten the intended results. They said it was time to change course, not to do more of the same.
''Our job creators are looking to Washington for leadership on the economic and fiscal challenges we face, and not a gimmicky to-do list on a Post-it note,'' Mr. McCarthy said.
Instead, House Speaker John A. Boehner said that the Republicans would barrel ahead with the kind of legislation that the House has been passing but that has gone nowhere in the Senate, where Democrats are in the majority.
''The House has passed more than 30 jobs bills to expand energy production and approve popular projects like Keystone XL, eliminate excessive federal red tape, repeal laws like Obamacare that are making it harder for small businesses to hire new workers, and more,'' he said.
The Republicans are taking the same agenda on the election trail, as their House campaign committee's message focused on characterizing the Democratic approach as ''reckless spending habits'' and a ''hyper-regulatory regime.''
In the weeks ahead, Mr. Boehner said, Republicans in the House would repeal a medical device tax in the health care overhaul, impose a moratorium on new federal regulations and, as he put it, ''stop the tax hike on small businesses that is scheduled to hit on Jan. 1, 2013.''
But that way of describing the scheduled expiration of Bush-era tax cuts, which the Republicans want to extend, demonstrates that both sides are continuing to cast matters in the light that they feel plays to their political advantage.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, said that ''Republicans are risking another deep recession'' by threatening to make the next debt extension, which will come up sometime after the elections, contingent on further spending cuts.
''If Republicans worked with us,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, ''we could pass legislation immediately to cut taxes for small businesses, prevent student loan rates from doubling and ensure women get paid the same amount as men for performing the same work. We could provide incentives to companies to create manufacturing jobs here at home, instead of overseas. And we could take steps to spur further growth in the housing market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); STENY HOYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



73 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Weak For Third Month, As Recovery Lags

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
For a third year, the economic recovery in the United States is floundering, stoking fears of a global slowdown as the European crisis escalates.
Last month, the nation's employers added the fewest jobs in a year and the unemployment rate actually rose, the Labor Department reported Friday. May was not a fluke either. It was the third consecutive month of disappointing results.
The weakening recovery is a serious vulnerability for President Obama as he faces re-election and it provides traction to his Republican rival, Mitt Romney, who says the administration has not done enough to strengthen the economy. Because Washington remains deeply divided over how best to stimulate growth, the report increases the pressure on the Federal Reserve to take further action on its own.
The United States gained a net 69,000 jobs in May, for an average of 96,000 over each of the last three months. That is down from a 245,000 gain on average from December through February. The unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent in May from 8.1 in April, though largely because more people began looking for work. And there was more bad news: job gains that had been reported in March and April were revised downward. 
Economists can explain away a month or two of dismal numbers, but a three-month run is difficult to ignore. The economy now seems to be following the spring slowdown pattern of the last two years -- a bright spot of accelerating growth followed by a slump. The news on Friday even raised mentions of a possibility that dogged last year's forecasts but did not come to pass: another recession.
The report on American jobs added to the global pall that has deepened with Europe's debt crisis and slowing growth in China and India. Global financial markets, weak in early trading on Friday, sank further on the report. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 2.22 percent, or 274.88 points, wiping out its gains for the year, and the main index of the German stock market closed down 3.4 percent.
Yields on United States and German government bonds also slumped as investors bid up the bonds' prices looking for safety. The 10-year Treasury yield fell to another record low, 1.46 percent, and the German two-year bond fell below zero.
Steve Blitz, chief economist of ITG Investment Research, said that the big improvements over the winter were not a true acceleration but simply a catch-up after last year's dip. The underlying pace of the domestic economy is a slog, driven by manufacturing and restrained by slackening global demand. ''The reason why it was never going to build momentum going forward was simply because the rest of the world was slowing down,'' he said.
Once again, uncertainty became a dominant theme. ''Manufacturers are very concerned about Europe because a blowup in Europe means a global slowdown,'' said Ellen Zentner, the senior United States economist for Nomura, the financial services firm. ''It hasn't translated into layoffs -- businesses are just hiring less.''
Charles Ingram, vice president for marketing and sales at Eriez Magnetics, which produces industrial equipment, said the company was still hiring and still getting orders, but watching developments closely. ''We're very diverse, so if one or two industrial markets are down, we're O.K.,'' he said. ''But if there's a general recession, that would be a real problem, and that's certainly a possibility.''
Republicans immediately seized upon the jobs numbers as an opportunity to criticize Mr. Obama's economic policies.
Mr. Romney called the report a ''harsh indictment of the president's handling of the economy'' and ''devastating news for American workers and American families.''
The White House emphasized that the report showed the 27th month of job gains, and called on Congress to pass the president's numerous job-related proposals.
The May jobs report showed gains in health care, transportation and warehousing, and wholesale trade, while construction jobs fell by a seasonally adjusted 28,000. Even some bright spots, like booming auto sales, failed to meet expectations or to bolster manufacturing employment by much -- only 12,000 jobs.
Once again, government reduced workers, driven by cutbacks at the local level.
''In February or March, I thought the labor market had achieved escape velocity,'' said Patrick J. O'Keefe, the director of economic research at J. H. Cohn, a consulting firm. ''It appears to me now that that was a premature call.''
The gloomy news drew attention to the Federal Reserve, which could choose to step up its stimulus campaign. Several members of the Fed's policy-making committee have said in recent days that they were not inclined to change current policy, but that position has always been contingent on continued growth.
The economy needs to grow by about 125,000 jobs each month just to maintain the current unemployment rate.
When the Fed committee next meets, in late June, it will face the possibility that the recovery has failed once again to take off.
Fears of a global slowdown showed up in other economic data on Friday. Cooling exports dampened the nation's major manufacturing index, though it remained in positive territory. That news came on the heels of several worrisome reports like falling consumer confidence, an uptick in new claims for unemployment benefits and a downward revision of the country's overall economic growth in the first quarter, to a 1.9 percent annual rate from 2.2 percent. Income grew slightly between March and April, another government report said, though consumer spending grew a little more -- a situation that economists say cannot last.
The jobs report is based on two surveys, one of businesses and the other of households. The household survey showed a net gain of 422,000 in the number of people employed, and also an uptick in the percentage of the working-age population who have jobs.
But David Rosenberg, the chief economist with Gluskin Sheff, an investment firm, said much of that gain was in part-time work, while the number of full-time workers fell.
''Even the good news in this report was bad,'' he said.
Some analysts said it was too soon to declare a significant slowdown. The recovery's roller-coaster trajectory may be largely illusory, the product of seasonal adjustment distortions and, this year, the unusually warm winter, Ms. Zentner said.
Many economists say the weather effect, which caused some growth to occur earlier in the year than it otherwise would have, should be over by now. Ms. Zentner said, however, that her research showed that historically, May is the month that is most reduced after a warm winter. Seasonal adjustments were also making the winter look better than it was and the spring look worse.
''What the seasonal bias has done is it's made the recovery look like a stop-start recovery,'' Ms. Zentner said. ''Instead, the pace of the recovery has been very steady -- very moderate, and disappointing, but steady.''
The number of long-term unemployed, those who have been looking for work for more than half a year, rose by 300,000, even as hundreds of thousands of jobless workers lost their unemployment checks because of cutbacks. The long-term unemployed have the most difficulty finding jobs, and many of them say they have not seen any improvement in the job market.
''Nobody has lists and lists of hundreds of available jobs,'' said Glen Barry of Carmel, N.Y., who worked for the government at the county level for 25 years as a computer operator and was laid off in December 2010. ''A lot of people work a job and a half now. Instead of having four people doing the work, they have two people doing the work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aaron Moore, 25, filling out a job application on Thursday at the Los Angeles Mission's Skid Row Career Fair. The Labor Department said the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: Over the last three months, the economy has added a disappointing average of only 96,000 jobs a month.
Stocks fell.
Investors sought safety.
Political wagers changed. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Bloomberg
Intrade) (A1)
The Labor Picture in May: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
UNEMPLOYMENT DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (75%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



74 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Critics From Base See Romney Pulling Punches on 'Nice Guy' Obama

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
To hear Mitt Romney tell it, President Obama has slowed the economic recovery, apologized for America abroad, taken his cues from the social democrats of Europe and wasted hundreds of millions in stimulus dollars on companies like Solyndra.
But there is one more thing Mr. Romney regularly reminds voters about the president: ''He's a nice guy.'' Those were Mr. Romney's words last month at a campaign stop in Fort Lupton, Colo., where he added, for good measure, ''I don't have a problem with the man personally.''
That followed Mr. Romney's portrayal of Mr. Obama in April as ''a nice guy'' who ''spent too much time at Harvard,'' and his description of the president in October as ''well meaning, but just over his head when it comes to the economy.''
Even as Mr. Romney steps up his attacks on the Obama administration, his measured portrayal of the president himself -- his He's-a-Nice-Guy-But approach -- has stirred some concerns among fellow Republicans who are eager, after nearly four years of an Obama administration, to see the president demonized. 
In 2008, many conservatives felt that John McCain lost the election in part by refusing to attack Mr. Obama viciously enough, and echoes of that sentiment are creeping up again, on talk radio, in the blogosphere and among those turning out at Mr. Romney's rallies.
In an essay on National Review Online titled ''No More 'Mr. Obama is a Nice Guy,' '' Michelle Malkin, a conservative commentator, worried about what she called ''this disastrous, bend-over bipartisanship,'' a sentiment she also aired to Fox News's Sean Hannity.
''I hate hearing this from Mitt Romney,'' she told Mr. Hannity. ''He's got to get this talking point out of his mouth -- Barack Obama is not a nice guy.''
And at a rally of supporters last month in Omaha, a stern looked of disagreement crossed the face of Mary Vinzant, 69, when Mr. Romney told the crowd that Mr. Obama was a ''nice guy.'' She kept shaking her head, even as Mr. Romney went on to argue that the president is simply not up to the task of leading the country back to economic prosperity.
''Nice guys don't destroy our country like Obama has done,'' Ms. Vinzant said in an interview after the speech. ''I hate it when Romney says that. He's not a nice guy.''
Mr. Romney, however, must balance the demands of a frustrated Republican base with the reality on the ground. Most national polls show a majority of voters have a favorable opinion of Mr. Obama, and they might be repelled by pointed character attacks on a president for whom many Americans feel an affinity, particularly because he is the nation's first black president.
In the post-primary phase, he also needs to calibrate his language on Mr. Obama and appeal to the moderates and independents -- particularly women -- who will be crucial in deciding the election and whose opinions of Mr. Obama differ from those of Republican loyalists.
Mr. Romney's challenge, aides say, is to make the election largely about economics, rather than a referendum on whether Mr. Obama seems like a devoted father, or a fun guy with whom to play a game of pickup basketball.
One solution, said Tom Rath, a Romney adviser, is what he calls ''the Wizard of Oz approach.''
''You have to separate the person and the personality, which may be attractive, from their ability to do the job,'' said Mr. Rath, referring to the scene at the end of ''The Wizard of Oz'' in which Dorothy's dog, Toto, pulls back the curtain to reveal that the wizard is just an ordinary man. ''You're a very bad man,'' says Dorothy, to which the wizard replies, ''No my dear, I'm a very good man. I'm just a very bad wizard.''
''The core message is not that Barack Obama is a bad guy,'' Mr. Rath said. ''It's that Barack Obama is not the right guy to manage the economy, and any day we're off message is a bad day for us.''
Verbally disassociating the president from his policies, Mr. Rath added, ''is like giving the audience leave to say, 'I'm going to vote against that person even though I kind of like them.' ''
For Mr. Romney, the strategy also reflects a clever two-step; while he personally offers light praise and keeps the message on the economy, behaving in an almost gentlemanly fashion, his campaign still allows his surrogates to run roughshod, saying things about Mr. Obama that Mr. Romney cannot or will not. This week, for instance, Mr. Romney would not repudiate Donald Trump for inflammatory statements he made questioning the president's Hawaiian birth certificate.
From the beginning, Mr. Romney has couched his arguments in a disappointed father's more-from-sadness-than-in-anger conceit. His implicit pitch is this: It's too bad it didn't work out with Mr. Obama, but we gave him a chance to turn around the economy, and now it's time to let the professionals back in.
Early last month, in Euclid, Ohio, Mr. Romney lamented what he described as Mr. Obama's failure. He said that Mr. Obama, after talking about hope and change at the Democratic convention, ''hasn't lived up to those kind of expectations.''
''We hoped that this president would be able to be successful,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I sure did.''
Mr. Obama similarly takes the genial approach with his opponent. When the president officially began his re-election campaign last month, he made sure to praise Mr. Romney's ''good guy'' bona fides.
''Governor Romney is a patriotic American who has raised a wonderful family, and he has much to be proud of,'' Mr. Obama said. ''He's run a large financial firm, and he's run a state.''
Cuing up his attack, he then added: ''But I think he has drawn the wrong lessons from those experiences.''
Romney aides say they believe the Obama team is trying to have it both ways, allowing the president to stay positive and hover above the fray, while his campaign offers hard-edged criticisms. And Obama aides say they think the Romney campaign recognizes the difficulty of attacking a president who is generally well-liked; to win, Mr. Romney will have to woo away voters who voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, and may still like him as a person.
Recently, news broke that a ''super PAC'' of high-profile Republican strategists was considering an attack timed to the Democratic National Convention that would link Mr. Obama to inflammatory comments by his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. The Romney campaign repudiated the plan, but the incident underscores a private concern: As the race turns more heated, a pro-Romney super PAC may hit Mr. Obama with personal attacks, which the campaign worries could produce a backlash, especially among moderate and independent voters.
Because after all, as Mr. Romney himself has said repeatedly, ''this president is a nice guy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney in Colorado. The challenge, his aides say, is to make the election about economics, not Mr. Obama's character. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%); SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



75 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
EGYPT AWAITS VERDICT
ON MUBARAK AND FALLOUT
A panel of judges in Hosni Mubarak's criminal trial for the police shootings of roughly 250 people during the protests that led to his ouster as Egypt's president is expected to issue a verdict that could inject a powerful new variable into the race to elect Mr. Mubarak's successor. Page A4
AFTERMATH OF ITALY QUAKE 
Tuesday's quake killed 17 people in Italy, and left as many as 14,000 people living in makeshift tent camps or sleeping in cars. Beyond that, though, concerns are turning to the grave economic uncertainties for a region of Emilia-Romagna that is one of the country's economic powerhouses. Page A4
IRELAND VOTES ON TREATY
Ireland voted overwhelmingly to ratify a treaty intended to bind European Union member states to tighter budgetary controls in an effort to address the sovereign debt crisis that is threatening the euro. Page A6
A WARNING TO INVESTORS
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar's democracy movement, stared down an audience of corporate executives in Bangkok and urged them to be aware of the pitfalls her country still holds for investors. Page A7
GREEK LEFTIST ON AUSTERITY
With polls showing that his left-leaning party was in a tight race in Greece's parliamentary election, Alexis Tsipras detailed his economic platform, promising to annul the terms of the country's financial rescue packages. Page A9
National
FROM A LONG SHOT
TO G.O.P.'S BEST BET
Deb Fischer, who was a long shot for the Republican primary for Nebraska's soon-to-be vacant Senate seat, is now thought to be the front-runner against Nebraska's once-favored son Bob Kerrey. Page A11
VOTER PURGING IN FLORIDA
The Justice Department has asked Florida to stop searching for and purging the names of possible ineligible voters, saying that the state appears to be in violation of federal voter protection laws. Page A13
A BATTLE FOR CLEAN WATER
Farmers and landowners scattered across Pavillion, Wyo. -- along with a draft report by the Environmental Protection Agency -- claim that their water wells have been contaminated by fracking. But definitive results are unclear. Page A13
New York
JUDGE HALTS PLAN
FOR NEW LIVERY SERVICE
A judge placed on hold the Bloomberg administration's plan to create a new class of livery cabs, a frustrating stumble for the city in its efforts to expand street hail service to the outer boroughs. Page A17
Obituaries
KANETO SHINDO, 100
A venerable filmmaker, he directed nearly 50 movies, was perhaps best known for films with themes relating to the wartime atomic devastation in his native Japan. Page A19
Business
NEW RULES EXPECTED
FOR MONEY TRANSFERS
Money-transfer companies like Western Union largely escaped the regulatory crackdown in the wake of the financial crisis, but soon they will be subject to new federal rules. Page B1
BP TO EXIT RUSSIA VENTURE
BP, the oil giant based in London, said that it planned to sell its 50 percent stake in its Russian joint venture, TNK-BP, after being approached by potential buyers that it did not identify. Analysts said the stake could fetch $30 billion. Page B1
SOME GAINS FOR AUTOMAKERS
While sales of new cars fell short of expectations in May, most automakers still reported solid gains over last year's depressed selling rate, continuing a yearlong trend of growth. Page B2
NEW CANCER DRUG STUDY
A new study says that an experimental cancer drug is showing promise in disabling the molecular shield that tumors form to repel attacks from the body's immune system. The drug has caused shrinkage of some lung, skin and kidney cancers that had defied treatment with existing drugs. Page B3
Sports
OKLAHOMA CITY FINDS
AN ANSWER TO THE SPURS
Three minutes into Game 3 of the Western Conference finals, Thabo Sefolosha of the Oklahoma City Thunder had brought enough pain upon the San Antonio Spurs to reset the series' momentum. Page D1
Arts
NEW SPIRE IN LONDON
IS FOCUS FOR COMPLAINTS
The ArcelorMittal Orbit, a spiraling tower of red tangled steel that stands 35 stories above the Olympic Park in London, has become a bit of a target. Envisioned as a symbol of London looming over the site of this summer's Olympic Games, many residents are scornful of the tower as a symbol billions being spent in preparation for the Games at a time of economic austerity measures. Page C1
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A19
Charles M. Blow PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); WIRE TRANSFERS (61%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (90%); DEB FISCHER (79%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (88%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MYANMAR (79%); GREECE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



76 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: China Is Said to Have Detained Intelligence Official Suspected of Spying for U.S.

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Steven Lee Myers and Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Reacting to what could be the biggest intelligence breach in China in years, the Chinese government detained a security official early this year who is suspected of passing information to the United States, a person with knowledge of the case said Friday.
The official is believed to be an employee in the Ministry of State Security, China's main intelligence agency. The United States and Chinese governments have not given any hint publicly of the discovery of the spying suspect. If the case were to be brought into the open, it could become another point of friction in a year of sharp diplomatic tensions between Washington and Beijing. 
Earlier this year, the Communist Party was dealing with a fragile moment in China's relations with the United States. In February, a former Chinese police chief drove to the United States Consulate in Chengdu to present evidence linking the wife of a Politburo member, Bo Xilai, to the killing last year of a British businessman. The police chief, Wang Lijun, was escorted to Beijing by officials from the Ministry of State Security after spending a night in the consulate.
One week later, Xi Jinping, the vice president and presumed next leader of China, embarked on a prominent five-day good-will tour of the United States that had been scheduled months earlier and was hosted by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
It is unclear what kind of information the detained Chinese official is suspected of having given to the United States and whether that information has compromised any operations by the Chinese government. Recently, news of the spying suspect's detention had been circulating quietly in some foreign intelligence circles. A spokesman for the American Embassy in Beijing declined to comment.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, visiting Oslo on Friday, declined to comment on the reports of an espionage arrest, as did officials at the State Department and the White House in Washington.
A senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivities, said the detention came during the same period as a series of investigations begun after the revelations in the Bo affair. The investigations, authorized by China's top leaders, have expanded beyond Mr. Bo to the Ministry of State Security and now include allegations of improper use of the security services by various Chinese officials and corruption, the official said.
It was not clear that the espionage case was related in any way to the other investigations.
''There is clearly some very intense stuff going on with the security ministry,'' the official said. ''It's hard to tell exactly, but it's clearly maneuvering going on after Bo.''
Early this year, senior Chinese officials imposed a foreign travel ban on scholars at an important research center based in Beijing that some analysts say has ties to the Ministry of State Security. The ban on overseas travel within the center, the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, was related to an intelligence breach, said one person who has contact with the institutes' scholars, and could well be a direct result of the discovery and detention of the official suspected of spying.
The detainee could be charged with treason and tried; the charge carries a maximum penalty of death.
The detention of the official was first reported by Chinese-language news organizations outside the mainland that sometimes dispense rumor as fact. The World Journal reported on May 27 that the suspect was the secretary of a vice minister in the Ministry of State Security.
Reuters reported Friday from Hong Kong that an aide to a vice minister in the Ministry of State Security was arrested between January and March this year on suspicion that he had been passing intelligence to the United States for years. Reuters cited an anonymous source who said the aide had passed on ''political, economic and strategic intelligence.''
The aide was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars and spoke English, Reuters said the source told it. The vice minister has been suspended and is being questioned, too.
David Wise, the author of the 2011 book ''Tiger Trap: America's Secret Spy War With China,'' said that Chinese intelligence is ''a very hard target.''
''If in fact the C.I.A. had a mole inside the Ministry of State Security, that would be a pretty big deal,'' Mr. Wise said. ''It would open a window on Chinese intelligence operations worldwide, and first of all what they're doing against the U.S. We might be able to identify their operatives and find out what the Chinese government role is in cyberwarfare, which has never been proven.''
The last time a prominent turning of a Chinese official by the United States became public was in 1985, when Yu Qiangsheng, a senior security official, defected and revealed that a former employee of the C.I.A., Larry Wu-Tai Chin, had been selling secrets to the Chinese. Mr. Chin killed himself in prison while awaiting sentencing.
There have been sharp twists in diplomatic relations between the United States and China this year. Just two months after Mr. Wang, the police chief, showed up at the American Consulate, a persecuted Chinese activist and self-trained lawyer, Chen Guangcheng, escaped from guards keeping him under house arrest in his village and reached the American Embassy in Beijing. Mr. Chen was brought into the embassy right before a round of talks known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue between the two nations, and diplomats from each country negotiated hastily to resolve his fate. Last month, Mr. Chen flew to the United States with his family to start a fellowship at New York University School of Law.
Mrs. Clinton, referring to the diplomatic crisis over Mr. Chen, said in Oslo on Friday that although the United States and China often disagreed, they had many mutual interests and that President Obama's administration was determined to cultivate cooperative relations on a host of economic and security issues.
''The goal for our relationship with China is to ensure that we defy history,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''It has never happened that an established pre-eminent power and a rising power have been able to find a way to not only coexist, but cooperate. We intend to make history with our relationship with China.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); CORRUPTION (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



77 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Democracy Leader Cautions Investors Against 'Reckless Optimism' in Myanmar

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- In one of her first speeches outside her country in 24 years, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar's democracy movement, stared down an audience of corporate executives here on Friday and urged them to avoid ''reckless optimism'' and to be aware of the pitfalls her country still holds for investors.
Fearing a flood of investment that might harm Myanmar by increasing corruption and inequality, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi laid out in unsparing terms the problems facing her country, including an educational system that is in a shambles and youth unemployment that is a ''time bomb.'' 
She also noted that Myanmar, which has been moving swiftly away from dictatorship in the last year, is not a ''genuinely democratic society'' and, in a swipe at the government that only recently freed her from house detention, suggested that some business deals were already moving forward without transparency.
That, she suggested, is bad both for the country and for business.
''Would-be investors in Burma, please be warned,'' she said, referring to the country by its former name. ''Even the best investment laws would be of no use whatsoever if there are no courts that are clean enough and independent enough to be able to administer those laws justly. This is our problem: So far we have not been aware of any reforms on the judicial front.''
The remarks came two weeks after the United States, following countries in Europe and elsewhere, opened the door to the first significant American investments in Myanmar in decades -- a move Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi endorsed, but only if some sanctions remained in place because political changes were not yet ''irreversible.'' The Obama administration did leave a raft of sanctions on the books in what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has called ''an insurance policy'' against a stall in reforms by the government, according to a statement at the time.
As a dissident who was detained at her home for 15 years by Myanmar's ruling generals, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was known for her defiance of the military, stubbornness and strong will. Now a member of Parliament, elected under a new civilian government's fledgling political reforms, she did not modulate from that tone at the conference on Friday despite the high profile of the gathering. The meeting was put on by the World Economic Forum, the group that also hosts the annual gathering in Davos, Switzerland.
''I would not like you to be over-optimistic,'' she said. ''These days, I'm coming across a lot of what I would call reckless optimism.''
Some in the audience thought that Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi had gone too far with her call for caution.
''I thought she was excessively pessimistic,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor of economics at Columbia University who has helped advise the Myanmar government during its transition from military dictatorship.
Mr. Stiglitz said that despite ''uncertainties'' and a weak judicial system, foreign investors could expect good returns. He compared Myanmar to China. The rule of law is very weak in China, yet the country has grown at an impressive pace for the last three decades, and foreign investors have profited, he said.
In Myanmar, he said, the government's commitment to investment ''implies it will be sensitive to the concerns of investors.''
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said she did not want to discourage investment, speaking instead of what she described as healthy skepticism. ''I think you should see it as a word of caution, a strong word of caution,'' she told reporters.
Her message contrasted with a presentation by U Than Htay, Myanmar's minister of energy, that received much less prominent billing. ''The new government is encouraging foreign investors to invest in wide-ranging industries,'' Mr. Than Htay said.
He spoke in place of Myanmar's president, Thein Sein, who was to have attended but canceled soon after news reports appeared saying that Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi would go and after organizers released a schedule giving her prominent billing. Members of his staff said he could not make the time to go. His visit to Thailand had been rescheduled for next week, but that was also canceled, the Thai Foreign Ministry said Friday.
Mr. Than Htay's speech was a classic pitch to potential investors. He said the government was ''making important strides'' in education policies, and spoke about the country's tourism potential. He also promoted several special economic zones that the government had approved for foreign investors.
It was those zones that drew Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's criticism for a lack of transparency. Referring to an economic zone near the border with Thailand, she said, ''We, the people of Burma, were kept completely in the dark about what was in the contracts, about what was going on.
''This is very dangerous for a country,'' she said. ''It endangers national reconciliation. It engenders more and more suspicion and mistrust.''
Stuart Dean, the chief executive of the Southeast Asian branch of General Electric, was in the audience and acknowledged that there were risks in investing in Myanmar. But he said that the company could not pass up the opportunity. ''Our view is that you've got to look at the risk of going into an emerging market like Myanmar,'' he said in an interview. ''But at the same time you've also got to look at the risk of not going into the country.''
Myanmar government officials visited the Washington offices of General Electric on Wednesday and asked the company to help devise an energy policy, Mr. Dean said. General Electric plans to open an office in the country this year.
Mr. Dean said there were limits to talking about the risks of investing in Myanmar. ''They need electricity,'' he said. ''I can't imagine that we ship some turbines there and they don't pay us for them. Who else is going to ship turbines once that story gets out?''
Online Correction: June 1, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the day of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi's arrival in Thailand as Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, a member of Parliament, passed by photographers at a gathering of executives in Bangkok organized by the World Economic Forum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT LEWIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) MYANMAR (98%); THAILAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012



78 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Florida Versus Spain

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Bailing out America's Costa del Sol. 

 BODY:
Mainly as a note to myself: What was once Peter Kenen's big insight about optimum currency areas is now a commonplace: They're much more likely to be workable if you have fiscal federalism, so that there are large automatic transfers to depressed regions. Now, I often compare Spain with Florida: both had huge housing bubbles followed by busts. Florida, however, has its retirement and much of its health care paid for from Washington. So how big are the transfers?
OK, a crude calculation:
1. From IRS data, we find that Florida's tax payments to Washington fell approximately $25 billion between 2007 and 2010, the bottom of the slump.
2. From Labor Department data, we find that in 2010 special unemployment insurance programs -- extended benefits paid for from DC -- were about $3 billion in 2010.
3. FromSNAP (food stamp) data, we see that food benefits to Florida rose about $3 billion over the same period.
So as I read it, between falling tax payments without any corresponding fall in federal benefits, plus safety-net aid -- not counting Medicaid, which would make the number even bigger -- Florida received what amounted to an annual transfer from Washington of $31 billion plus, or more than 4 percent of state GDP. That's a transfer, not a loan. And it's very big.
Oh, and we should also add both FDIC costs and Fannie/Freddie losses in Florida.
Aid on that scale is inconceivable in Europe as currently constituted. That's a big problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAID (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



79 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A 4-Year-Old Filly Is Safe, and Sound

BYLINE: LIZ O'CONNELL


HIGHLIGHT: A New York-bred filly that escaped horse slaughter is not sick; she is healthy and sound. She is not old and feeble; she is young and scopey. She is far from dangerous; according to her former trainer she is a "sweetheart." 

 BODY:
This is the face of horse slaughter. She's a 4-year-old thoroughbred filly, a New York-bred. She was born on a beautiful farm in Westchester County. Her life on that farm would have been textbook perfect, it's an outstanding facility, with a staff experienced in raising top-flight racehorses. Eventually, she was in training at Finger Lakes Race Track in Farmington, N.Y., but she never made a start. At the end of last year's race meet, her owner asked her trainer to find her a home. 
The filly was advertised online on the site where Finger Lakes' trainers list their horses. She was offered at $500. Her trainer is unclear about whether or not he gave the filly away, or if he sold her. He can't remember. He does remember a chaps-wearing woman with a British accent hopping on the filly for a walk around the backstretch and liking her enough to take her home; but she didn't want the filly's registration papers.
On May 25, the 4-year-old gray filly was at the D.R. Chambers & Sons, Inc. Friday night horse auction in Unadilla, N.Y. Horses might be sold to private individuals at Unadilla, but there is a good chance they will be purchased by, or for, a kill buyer with a contract to deliver live horseflesh to slaughterhouses in Canada. In late March 2012, another gray mare was sold for $35 to a guy up in the Lake George area who gets loads of horses together to ship to slaughter. (That mare was bailed from the dealer and is safe on an upstate New York horse sanctuary.)
Last Friday at Unadilla, one of the big guns of the kill-buyer coterie was on the grounds. He had his big rig, ready to take on and ship whatever horses he purchased.
This gray thoroughbred filly was spotted by a horse rescue affiliate at the sale, some calls were made, and the underground railroad for rescuing thoroughbreds at these kill sales was engaged. The filly was identified; her connections verified. There was no time to contact them because the sale was on. When the filly came into the sales ring, the big gun bid to $500, another bidder went to $525 and the kill buyer declined to bid further.
The winning bidder was bidding in proxy for one of the horse rescuers, the filly was safe, she would not go to slaughter in Canada. On her way out of the ring, the filly spooked and slipped into one of the cow gutters used to manage the manure from cattle. Her steel shoes on bare cement had no traction so she scrambled and flipped over. The filly cut and scraped herself up and got a puncture wound in her neck close to her ears.
According to the sales office, the filly did not have a Coggins blood test required for travel, so her blood was drawn. The Coggins test is for equine infectious anemia, formerly known as swamp fever because it is transmitted from horse to horse by insect bites. It does not infect humans. It would appear that the filly shipped to Unadilla without a Coggins, which is against the law. 
The actual buyer of the filly was several hours away and would not be able to pick her up that night. The bidder made sure the filly was safely in a pen, with hay and water, for pick-up the next day. It's not uncommon to leave a purchased horse at the stockyard overnight. 
On Saturday, when the buyer showed up to take her home, there was no one at the stockyard. The filly had been moved, tied up in an aisle, wearing an unbreakable nylon halter, and without access to water during the hottest day of the year. 
When the filly spied the buyer, she nickered and called out. When offered water, the filly dunked her muzzle and drank deeply. To keep her stomach from spasming with the surge of cool water draughts, the filly was rationed to sips every few minutes until her thirst was slaked. It took about half an hour. Upset and confused, the filly was reluctant to leave the dark barn to go out in the bright sunlight. Finally, she got on the trailer and was taken to the farm where she put her head down and started grazing at first opportunity.
The filly was immediately started on a course of antibiotics and pain-relieving medication. Two days later, she is stiff from the trauma, and some halter abrasions are beginning to appear from where she was improperly tied. Her head is very sore, and it's difficult to put her halter on for treating her wounds. She's thin in the way that horses are when they have a parasite load. She was not underfed and her feet are trimmed and shod. It doesn't appear that she was shipped to the slaughter sale because of economic hardship.
In the meantime, while the filly was being picked up and settled in, her connections were sought. Within a day, her original owner-breeder was contacted and stepped up to cover her rescue expenses. Without a pause, one of the owner-breeder's former farm managers offered a safe home to the filly.
With the legislative roadblocks to domestic horse slaughter removed, the horse-slaughter lobby is in overdrive scripting scenarios that always end up with the horses slaughtered - a win-win ending, unless you're the horse. When the horse slaughter lobby massages their horse-slaughter-is-necessary rhetoric into the mainstream news media, it is always about how many "unwanted" horses are besieging the horse industry. It is about how there is no other way to "get rid of" sick, elderly or dangerous horses.
The filly that escaped horse slaughter is none of these. She is not sick; she is healthy and sound. She is not old and feeble; she is young and scopey. She is far from dangerous; according to her former trainer she is a "sweetheart."
Who is this face of horse slaughter? Her name is Camp Nile. Campy for short.

        
Some See Companions; Some See Food
        
After Writing a Book, Savoring the Journey
        
Saving Horses, Celebrating Friendship at a Homecoming
        
Raising Awareness for Horse Retirement
        
Reason Will Win the Horse Slaughter Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSES (94%); HORSE RACING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (86%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) horse slaughter; Horse Racing; Slaughterhouses

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



80 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Catastrophic Credibility

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Stable prices are killing us. 

 BODY:
A little while ago Ben Bernanke responded to suggestions that the Fed needed to do more -- in particular, that it should raise the inflation target -- by insisting that this would undermine the institution's "hard-won credibility". May I say that what recent events in Europe, and to some extent in the US, really suggest is that central banks have credibility? Or more accurately, their credibility as inflation-haters is very clear, while their willingness to tolerate even as much inflation as they say they want, let alone take some risks with inflation to rescue the real economy, is very much in doubt.
Yesterday I pointed to the German breakeven, a measure of euro area inflation expectations, which has plunged lately. Here's a longer view:
Note the peak in April 2011. It wasn't very high; slightly above the ECB's target, but arguably still too low to make the needed adjustment within the euro area feasible. Nonetheless, the ECB raised rates -- and that was when the euro really began falling apart. The direct effects of the rate increase can't explain that unraveling, but the effect on expectations -- aha, so they really are that fanatical about price stability! -- can.
Now the breakeven is plunging. I'd like to think that the ECB is holding frantic meetings and planning to announce a surprise sharp rate cut, preferably to zero, the day after tomorrow. But I doubt it. The fact is that the ECB is highly credible: most observers, me included, are quite sure that it is totally allergic to inflation and relatively indifferent to the collapse of the real economy.
The Fed has conveyed a milder form of the same message, issuing forecasts that show inflation slightly below target and unemployment far above target; given its dual mandate, this should be a flashing siren calling for more action. Yet these forecasts have been accompanied by statements to the effect that no action is currently called for. The Fed has therefore created the credible expectation that it will move only if inflation is far below the claimed target, and doesn't really care about unemployment.
My earnest hope is that both central banks will rethink the meaning of credibility, and in particular what kind of credibility they really want to have, very soon. And by very soon I basically mean tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



81 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Game Changer

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the president's weekly address and the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
The weak employment report on Friday held the potential to reshape the presidential campaign, Jonathan Weisman and Mark Landler report. The race may be a referendum on President Obama, as Republicans want, or, as Democrats prefer, a choice between a president nursing the economy back to health and a challenger who represents the failed policies that caused the crisis in the first place.

        
The Justice Department has asked Florida to stop searching for and purging the names of ineligible voters, saying the search for people who are possibly noncitizens violates the provisions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, which safeguards voter rolls, Lizette Alvarez reports.

        
Even before Election Day on Tuesday, some groups in Wisconsin are calling on state lawmakers to conduct a major overhaul of Wisconsin's financial reporting requirements, Monica Davey reports. Among the groups' biggest concerns is a lack of transparency about outside groups that are buying ads - a collection that makes up about $30 million of the $60 million being spent in this campaign.

        
As Mitt Romney steps up his attacks on the Obama administration, his measured portrayal of the president himself - his He's-a-Nice-Guy-But approach - has stirred some concerns among fellow Republicans who are eager, after nearly four years of an Obama White House, to see the president demonized, Ashley Parker writes.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama acknowledged Friday's disappointing jobs report in his weekly address, urging Congress to work on proposals that would help grow the economy. He wants lawmakers to "get to work" on creating jobs for construction workers, giving small businesses a tax break for hiring more workers, giving homeowners the opportunity to refinance their mortgages, and ensuring that women have equal pay for equal work. Mr. Obama applauded Congressional efforts to pass parts of his jobs bill, like a tax cut for middle-class families, but vowed to apply pressure on lawmakers to do more. "It's not lost on anyone, least of all me, that this is an election year," he said. "But we've got responsibilities that are bigger than an election. We've got responsibilities to you. With so many people struggling to get by, now is not the time to play politics. Now is not the time for Congress to sit on its hands."
Around the Web

        
Seamus, Mitt Romney's dog that soared to fame after his ride on the roof of the family's car, is the subject of a book about the now-infamous incident, Politico reports. The author's note reads, "The events depicted in this book are purely fictitious. After all, who would actually tie a dog to the roof of a car?"
Happenings in Washington

        
The Ford's Theater will hold its annual gala with Morgan Freeman and Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Holocaust survivor. President Obama will host a reception honoring the event earlier in the afternoon.

        
The Early Word: Mistrial
        
The Early Word: Diplomacy
        
The Early Word: New Attack
        
The Weekend Word: Memorial Day
        
The Early Word: Ready to Fight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); THEATER (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); TAX LAW (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); WRITERS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (62%); EQUAL PAY (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



82 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 3

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: The Sunday shows will focus on the latest employment numbers and their potential impact on the campaign. 

 BODY:
Several news shows this Sunday will focus on the potential fallout on the presidential race of Friday's employment report, which showed that the economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year. Representatives from President Obama's re-election committee will make the rounds to argue that the latest report was just a hiccup in the president's plan to fix the economy, while officials in the Republican Party will say that it is time to see what a Romney administration can do.
David Axelrod, President Obama's senior campaign strategist, will stop by CBS's "Face the Nation" and Univision's "Al Punto" to discuss Mr. Obama's re-election strategies and the "secret tactics" being used by both campaign teams. Reince Priebus, Republican National Committee chairman, will also be on "Face the Nation," to discuss Republican strategy and the party's efforts to have Mitt Romney elected.
The Obama administration dispatched Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, to discuss the slow pace of economic growth on TV One's "Washington Watch." Representative Corrine Brown, Democrat of Florida, will also be on the program, to talk about accusations of voter suppression efforts in her home state.
The economy will also dominate the political roundtables, with Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts set to debate Gov. John Kasich of Ohio on NBC's "Meet the Press." Even though he is a supporter of President Obama, Mr. Patrick will likely weigh in on the Democrats' attacks against Mr. Romney's economic record as Massachusetts governor.
The tug-of-war will continue on ABC's "This Week" when Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Obama's deputy campaign manager, faces off with Eric Fehrnstrom, Mr. Romney's senior campaign adviser. Ed Gillespie, senior adviser to Mr. Romney, and Steven L. Rattner, Mr. Obama's former adviser on the auto industry, will discuss the overall direction of the economy on FOX's "Fox News Sunday."
CNN's "State of the Union" will depart from the presidential campaign to look at another tough contest - the Wisconsin gubernatorial recall race. The Democratic candidate, Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, will discuss his chances against Gov. Scott Walker. Later, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, chairman of the Republican Governors Association, will sit down to talk about the national implications of Tuesday's recall vote in Wisconsin.
Representative David Rivera, Republican of Florida, will appear on Telemundo's "Enfoque" to explain his proposed Stars Act, a Republican alternative to the Dream Act that would allow some students who enroll for college to stay in the country legally and eventually apply for citizenship.
Robert Khuzami, enforcement chief of the Securities and Exchange Commission, will be the featured guest on C-SPAN's "Newsmakers" for an update on what the S.E.C. is doing to police Wall Street.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, April 29
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 12
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Aug. 28
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, August 21
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, July 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NATURALIZATION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) sunday breakfast menu; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JOHN KASICH (57%); DEVAL PATRICK (57%); CORRINE BROWN (57%); SCOTT WALKER (55%); DAVID RIVERA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



83 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths IKLE, DORIS M

 BODY:
IKLE--Doris M. 84, of Bethesda, MD died June 1, 2012 peacefully at her home with her family by her side. Doris was an economist by training and a pioneer in energy efficiency. She died of complications related to ovarian cancer, which she had struggled with since her first diagnosis nineteen years ago. Doris was predeceased by her husband of 52 years, Fred C. Ikle (1924-2011). She is survived by two daughters Judith Ikle of San Francisco, CA and Mimi Ikle-Khalsa of Takoma Park, MD, sons-in-law Aaron Maizlish and Sat Jiwan Ikle-Khalsa, three wonderful grandchildren, Leo and Anna Ikle-Maizlish and Kyah Ikle-Khalsa, a sister Miriam Goodley of Oakland, CA and two nieces. 
Her ability to persevere through multiple bouts of cancer for nineteen years and to go on and continue to live a productive and happy life as a wife, mother and CEO of her own business has been an inspiration to many. Doris Margret Eisemann was born on May 28, 1928 in Frankfurt, Germany to Richard and Sonja Eisemann. Her parents decided to leave Germany in the spring of 1933 in response to the rising tide of anti-Semitism. The family lived briefly in Switzerland and then in Paris, France before emigrating to the United States in 1937. Doris lived in New York City, Riverdale and Forest Hills and graduated from Forest Hills High School in 1945. She received both Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Economics from New York University in 1949 and 1953 and completed postgraduate studies in Economics at Columbia University. She held research positions with the National Bureau of Economic Research and the American Banker's Association in New York. She developed the Ikle Index, which measures economic purchase price parity. While employed as an Economist with the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Doris met the love of her life, the Swiss-born Fred C. Ikle. With their two daughters, Judith and Mimi, they moved first to Washington in 1973 with Fred's political appointment as the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and eventually built their own home inBethesda, MD. In 1977, Doris started her second career as an entrepreneur and renowned expert on residential energy efficiency. She started her company, Conservation Management Corp., now named CMC Energy Services, literally at her kitchen table, to address the need for energy efficiency. Doris was the President and CEO of CMC Energy Services from 1977 to 2010, and stayed on as the Chief Innovation Officer until last month remaining very involved with the day-to-day operations of her business right up to her last days. Early on, she developed the Fuelomizer, a do-it-yourself energy audit slide chart tool. Doris also developed Home Tune-uP a sophisticated software and auditor management tool for residential energy audits. Today, CMC has provided energy audits to over 350,000 residences and 50,000 commercial buildings and employs over 95 people administering energy efficiency programs in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York State. In 2010, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Alliance to Save Energy. A Memorial Service will be held on Sunday, June 10, 2012 at 10am, at Temple Emanuel, 10101 Connecticut Ave, Kensington, MD 20895. Donations in honor of Doris may be made to Johns Hopkins University or a charity of your choosing. For JHU, please make your check out to Johns Hopkins University noting Doris' name in the memo. Mail to: Ovarian Cancer Research Fund at 100 N. Charles St., #

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); DEATHS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); CANCER (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); OVARIAN CANCER (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (50%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (74%); FRANCE (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



84 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Are We in the Midst Of a Sixth Mass Extinction?

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEARSON. 
A scientist at the American Museum of Natural History and the author of ''Driven to Extinction: The Impact of Climate Change on Biodiversity.''

 BODY:
NEARLY 20,000 species of animals and plants around the globe are considered high risks for extinction in the wild. That's according to the most authoritative compilation of living things at risk -- the so-called Red List maintained by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
This should keep us awake at night. 
By generalizing from the few groups that we know fairly well -- amphibians, birds and mammals -- a study in the journal Nature last year concluded that if all species listed as threatened on the Red List were lost over the coming century, and that rate of extinction continued, we would be on track to lose three-quarters or more of all species within a few centuries.
We know from the fossil record that such rapid loss of so many species has previously occurred only five times in the past 540 million years. The last mass extinction, around 65 million years ago, wiped out the dinosaurs.
The Red List provides just a tiny insight into the true number of species in trouble. The vast majority of living things that share our planet remain undiscovered or have been so poorly studied that we have no idea whether their populations are healthy, or approaching their demise. Less than 4 percent of the roughly 1.7 million species known to exist have been evaluated. And for every known species, there are most likely at least two others -- possibly many more -- that have not yet been discovered, classified and given a formal name by scientists. Just recently, for instance, a new species of leopard frog was found in ponds and marshes in New York City. So we have no idea how many undiscovered species are poised on the precipice or were already lost.
It is often forgotten how dependent we are on other species. Ecosystems of multiple species that interact with one another and their physical environments are essential for human societies.
These systems provide food, fresh water and the raw materials for construction and fuel; they regulate climate and air quality; buffer against natural hazards like floods and storms; maintain soil fertility; and pollinate crops. The genetic diversity of the planet's myriad different life-forms provides the raw ingredients for new medicines and new commercial crops and livestock, including those that are better suited to conditions under a changed climate.
This is why a proposed effort by the I.U.C.N. to compile a Red List of endangered ecosystems is so important. The list will comprise communities of species that occur at a particular place -- say, Long Island's Pine Barrens or the Cape Flats Sand Fynbos in South Africa. This new Red List for ecosystems will be crucial not only for protecting particular species but also for safeguarding the enormous benefits we receive from whole ecosystems.
Another important step was the recent creation of a new Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. The organization, created under the auspices of the United Nations, will provide the scientific background for international policy negotiations affecting biodiversity.
Do we need to protect so many species? Or can we rely on ecosystems with a depleted number of parts? Recent results from a study of grassland ecosystems shed important new light on these questions. Seventeen grasslands with different numbers of species were created and then studied over many years. The analysis, published in Nature last fall, showed that more than 80 percent of the plant species contributed to the effective functioning of the ecosystems, causing, for instance, a greater buildup of nutrients in soils.
Another study, published in Science in January, showed that more species allow for better functioning in arid ecosystems, which support nearly 40 percent of the world's human population. The bottom line is that many species are needed to maintain healthy ecosystems, and this is especially the case in a rapidly changing world, because species take on new roles as conditions change.
Benefits provided by ecosystems are vastly undervalued. Take pollination of crops as an example: according to a major United Nations report on the Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity, the total economic value of pollination by insects worldwide was in the ballpark of $200 billion in 2005. More generally, efforts to tally the global monetary worth of the many different benefits provided by ecosystems come up with astronomically high numbers, measured in tens of trillions of dollars.
These ecosystem services are commonly considered ''public goods'' -- available to everyone for free. But this is a fundamental failure of economics because neither the fragility nor the finiteness of natural systems is recognized. We need markets that put a realistic value on nature, and we need effective environmental legislation that protects entire ecosystems.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: Already Gone: Species known to be extinct, or extinct in the wild, since 1500
A Tally of Life Under Threat: The International Union for Conservation of Nature has evaluated 52,205 species, depicted here, for their ability to survive.
Stark Indicators Of Extinction Risks: Because most known species of birds, mammals and amphibians have been evaluated, scientists are confident about the percentage of each group that is threatened.
 Other Threatened Life: The Tip of a Vast Unknown: Only fractions of known species in these nine groups have been evaluated. Because assessments have focused on species likely to be in danger, the proportion of each group that is threatened may be overstated. Meanwhile, the number of unknown species may be in the millions, or tens of millions -- many times that of what has been discovered. (Source: International Union for Conservation of Nature) (GRAPHICS BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); ANIMALS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); MAMMALS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%); SOUTH AFRICA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



85 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Pool Party

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS. 
Alexandra Jacobs is an editor for the Thursday and Sunday Styles sections of The Times.

 BODY:
BACKYARD OASIS
The Swimming Pool in Southern California Photography, 1945-1982
Edited by Daniell Cornell
Illustrated. 256 pp. Palm Springs Art Museum/Delmonico Books/Prestel. $60.
When my husband and I lived in Los Angeles, we lucked into an original black-and-white print by the photographer Julius Shulman for a ridiculously low price. It showed a glimmering infinity swimming pool that, we later learned, was part of Silvertop, a famous house designed by John Lautner. The photograph was framed and mounted in a place of honor on the wall of our dining room, where inevitably it would inspire guests to ask, ''Is that your pool?''
That question always bewildered me. Never mind that our own house, modestly sized, was on a hill so steep that it was easier to send a Slinky down to the neighbor than to borrow a cup of sugar. If we had managed to score an actual swimming pool, that ultimate, labor-intensive symbol of the American dream, surely we'd be displaying it before the soup course? 
But perhaps this recurring incident was testimony to the mesmerizing power of pools on film, a subject that has been explored with some frequency in publishing. There was a much hyped coffee-table book by Kelly Klein, the former wife of Calvin; Frans Evenhuis and Robert Landau's slim but lush ''Hollywood Poolside''; and now ''Backyard Oasis,'' a heavy (in both senses of the word) exploration of the role of pools, or ''individual water-based environs,'' as the book's editor, Daniell Cornell, paraphrases a bit strenuously, in 20th-century Southern California.
This project envisions the pool not just as a source of recreation and sybaritic pleasure but as a fraught symbol that quivers with meaning and foreboding: ''a particularly potent discursive field,'' as Cornell, a curator at the wonderful Palm Springs Art Museum, puts it; a doppelganger of the womb that, when drained, signifies economic and psychosocial barrenness; a ''revolving door through which trouble gets to travel,'' writes Dick Hebdige, a cultural critic, in an essay called ''Hole: Swimming . . . Floating . . . Sinking . . . Drowning.'' And that's not even counting what a pain it can be to clean.
At first, though, all is luxury and light, a blur of what has come to be known as real estate porn, with examples of perfect pools in idyllic settings, some laid out plainly ''like great clusters of turquoise stones,'' to quote a House & Garden writer cited here, some carefully composed and featuring lacquered socialites (as seen, for instance, in Slim Aarons's 1970 photo/graph ''Poolside Gossip''). Movie stars (Marilyn, Jayne and their many spinoffs) rise Venus-like, glistening with water or oil, from the depths. Parents cautiously cavort with their toddlers (as in Bill Anderson's ''Raymond Loewy Family,'' from 1957). Shulman's shot of Silvertop is not reproduced here, but there are many other contributions from this dedicated chronicler of midcentury modern architecture who died in 2009 at 98, his blood pressure no doubt exquisitely modulated by all the meditative sunset views his subjects showcased.
There is also a lot of material closer to regular porn: generous servings of cheesecake and beefcake (the men are given their own chapter, including some full-frontal nudity spared the women) and a few pictures featuring wan bodies and faded Lycra that resemble outtakes from American Apparel's summer catalog. (I would have excised the chapter on Pacific Ocean beaches, a book in itself.) Like a dip in poorly heated ''individual water-based environs,'' the racier images can be numbing or invigorating, depending on the placement. One of the best juxtapositions is Lawrence Schiller's picture of youthful party guests frugging at Paradise Cove in 1964 with one by Bill Owens of distinctly middle-aged swingers making a unity gesture with their feet in a hot tub seven years later (the title: ''We Don't Have to Conform''). I can think of no better way to encapsulate America's perky postwar optimism -- Esther Williams! Liberace! -- and its short slide into decadence.
And when the shadow falls across the backyard oasis, it is long and dark. The chlorine stings the mucus membranes; the water gets murky; the concrete scrapes. That ''ah'' of submersion becomes an ''ouch'': wild-eyed skateboarders swooping through empty pits. The future is plastics, as Benjamin Braddock was told in ''The Graduate,'' family pool winking behind him. And the artists are here to decry it. Ed Ruscha groups nine swimming pools with a broken highball glass. David Hockney's ''Pink Hose (From Twenty Photographic Pictures)'' lies coiled like a snake, or a pile of intestines. (The book ends in 1982 because that's when Hockney had a seminal exhibition at L.A. Louver in Venice, Calif., with the pool, and photography, taking ''center stage.'') Larry Sultan's young ''Swimmers'' seem creepily like Raphael angels, with red cheeks and chubby thighs.
As for ''Silvertop,'' it now hangs in our Brooklyn dining room, where a surprising number of new guests inquire, ''Was that your pool?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF ROCK HUDSON BY BILL ANDERSON, FROM ''BACKYARD OASIS'' (1954)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); FILM (78%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Backyard Oasis: The Swimming Pool in Southern California Photography, 1945-1982 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



86 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: In Economic Deluge, a World That's Unable to Bail Together

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Less than four years ago, with the world's financial system in danger of collapsing, major countries managed to come together on a coordinated course that averted a global depression.
Central banks pumped vast amounts of cash into economies, and banks were bailed out, with vows that they would be subject to stronger regulation.
By early 2009, financial markets had bottomed out and begun strong recoveries. Economies were slower to follow; by last year, slow growth seemed to be the global pattern, spurring hope that the crisis had passed. 
But within the last few weeks, much of that hope seems to have faded.
In Europe, the crisis has grown worse, not better, and the disputes among European leaders have intensified as much of the Continent appears to have drifted into a new recession. In China, growth remains robust by Western standards. But concern is rising over the possible end of a property boom that had been fueled in part by local government borrowing and spending.
In the United States, which had been an oasis of relative calm with a growing economy and rising employment, job growth in May, reported Friday, was a puny 69,000. To make the outlook even gloomier, earlier numbers were revised lower. That capped a series of three disappointing monthly reports.
Moreover, there seems to be little willingness -- or perhaps lit-tle ability -- for the major countries to act together again. Squabbles have grown, some countries are in fiscal distress, and others face daunting domestic problems. The European situation is the most pressing. Banks are under pressure in many countries, for a combination of reasons. They did not raise as much capital as they might have when markets were more buoyant last year. In some cases, they appear to have been slow to recognize their real estate loan losses.
But the most important factor may be that national governments are weak -- in every way possible. There is no doubt that some countries could not afford to bail out their banks again; some, in fact, now rely on those same banks for loans to keep the governments functioning at a time when private investors are unsure about their creditworthiness. The president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, suggested last week some type of common European deposit insurance and bank regulation, but there seems to be no consensus.
Nearly every major government in Europe has been thrown out by unhappy voters when an election rolled around, the latest being France. It is not a matter of left versus right. The only major leader to have been re-elected since 2008 is Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, but recent state elections there have been won by the opposing party, and even the German economy seems to be losing strength.
The most worrying electoral situation is in Greece, which seems to be mired in permanent recession and unable to comply with the rigid demands for austerity made by its European partners. With one election ending in deadlock among a variety of parties, it will try again on June 17. Many fear that the result could be a disorderly exit for Greece from the euro zone. Others think it could lead to the end of the euro altogether.
For governments that need to borrow money, this is either the best or the worst time ever. It is hard to believe just how low rates are for Germany and the United States. The yield on two-year United States Treasury notes is about one quarter of 1 percent. But comparable German notes this week were yielding one one-hundredth of a percent. At that rate, the government could borrow a million euros and pay 100 euros a year in interest.
But other countries have difficulty borrowing money at all, and pay far higher interest rates to get what money they can. It is not that anyone thinks the yields available on German and United States government bonds are attractive. It is that those bonds are deemed safe by fearful investors.
If throwing cash at the problem was the solution to the last crisis, now many deem that the cause of the current problems. Greece spent its way into its predicament while failing to collect the taxes it was owed and hiding the problem from the rest of Europe. But Spain was running budget surpluses before its own real estate bubble burst, leaving the government reeling. Yet all the troubled countries are being told -- largely by Germany -- to adhere to rigid austerity. With a common currency, it is hard to see how some of the countries can return to international competitiveness.
In the United States, the ease of borrowing has not made it politically easier to increase the pace of spending. Instead, there is the possibility of ''Taxmageddon,'' the threat that the unwillingness of politicians to compromise could lead to a combination of big automatic spending cuts and tax increases in 2013 that could devastate economic growth. All this is taking place in the midst of an election campaign that is widely expected to be the nastiest ever.
Moreover, the consensus that financial regulation should be strengthened and standardized has evaporated. In Europe and the United States, banks say that institutions across the Atlantic have unfair advantages, and regulators complain that the other continent has not taken the needed steps.
In the United States, a major push by the banks to weaken rules may or may not have been badly damaged by the multibillion-dollar trading loss suffered recently by JPMorgan Chase. But many in Congress, primarily but not exclusively Republicans, have gone back to the old belief that it was excessive government regulation that created the problem.
The widespread pessimism could dissipate as rapidly as it accumulated. Some surprisingly good economic news in the United States and China would help. More important would be for Europe's leaders to reach agreement on a course of action that offered hope for recovery in the most stricken areas of the Continent while assuring that the common financial system would have the support of common institutions if needed. Europe has previously managed to cobble together something when disaster appeared to loom, and perhaps it could do so again.
Germany -- the country that would have to pick up most of the bill to rescue its neighbors -- could decide that not spending the money created greater dangers. The United States could find ways to help out despite fiscal pressures and Congressional hostility to foreign aid. A new consensus on common bank regulation could emerge. But, for now at least, the outlook is far darker than it seemed to be only a couple of months ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



87 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice Recent Books of Particular Interest

 BODY:
THE GREAT DIVERGENCE: America's Growing Inequality Crisis and What We Can Do About It, by Timothy Noah. (Bloomsbury, $25.) Why inequality has mushroomed during the past four decades and what it means for American society. 
BRING UP THE BODIES,by Hilary Mantel. /(Macrae/Holt, $28.) Mantel's sequel to ''Wolf Hall'' traces the fall of Anne Boleyn; its magic lies in making the familiar story fascinating and suspenseful again.
THOSE WHO HAVE BORNE THE BATTLE: A History of America's Wars and Those Who Fought Them, by James Wright. (PublicAffairs, $28.99.) The widening gap between soldier and civilian.
LAND OF PROMISE: An Economic History of the United States, by Michael Lind. (Harper/Harper/Collins, $29.99.) This ambitious history, rich with details, argues that America owes its prosperity to the Hamiltonian (pro-big-government) tradition.
THE OUTSOURCED SELF: Intimate Life in Market Times, by Arlie Russell Hochschild. (Metropolitan/Holt, $27.) Hochschild studies the sad effects of using paid strangers to meet our most personal needs.
AEROGRAMMES: And Other Stories, by Tania James. (Knopf, $24.) A chimpanzee and a ghost are among the characters entangled in sticky human relationships in these lyrical, warmhearted tales.
INDIA BECOMING: A Portrait of Life in Modern India, by Akash Kapur. (Riverhead, $26.95.) A journalist's lucid, balanced account shows how rapid change has brought contrast and contradiction.
THE CHEMISTRY OF TEARS, by Peter Carey. (Knopf, $26.) In this touching novel, a grieving museum curator immerses herself in 19th-century journals.
A LAND MORE KIND THAN HOME, by Wiley Cash. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $24.99.) An evil pastor dominates Cash's mesmerizing first novel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); WRITERS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



88 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: My Brilliant Career: Politician

BYLINE: By OLYMPIA J. SNOWE. 
A Republican senator from Maine.

 BODY:
Washington
WHEN I was growing up, I would never have guessed that I could become a United States senator. Both of my parents -- my father a Greek immigrant, my mother the child of immigrants -- died before I was 10 years old. My aunt, who worked in a textile mill, and my uncle, who was a barber, took me in, and when my uncle died, my aunt struggled on her own to support me and my five cousins. 
I realized early on that I had a choice: allow myself to become overwhelmed by tragedies or learn something from them. And thankfully, as I was surrounded by the twin strengths of family and faith, I was positioned to view any setbacks as temporary, not permanent.
These early experiences with hardship also showed me that, while politics wasn't high on the menu of choices for women in the 1960s, I wanted to be involved in some form of public service, in improving the lives of others. So I majored in political science at the University of Maine and found summer jobs in government, first working for the Office of Economic Opportunity, then the governor's office. My ultimate goal was to gain employment in Washington after I graduated.
Fate, however, would intervene in my well-laid plans. I ended up marrying instead and stayed in Maine, where I served on the local Board of Voter Registration and worked for William S. Cohen, then a congressman. My husband was in the Maine House of Representatives. But then, one day while I was at work, I received the devastating news that he had been killed in a car accident returning from the Legislature.
At 26 years old, I was left to build a life for myself.
In the following weeks, while I grieved, friends and political leaders began urging me to run in the special election for my husband's seat. In the midst of my emotional turmoil I realized I could try once again to make something positive out of a terrible negative. I had a degree in political science and a drive to make a difference in people's lives. So I ultimately decided to run -- and I won.
I have never once actually assembled a resume, but the rest, as they say, is history. After I served in the Maine House of Representatives and State Senate, my aspiration of securing a job in Washington was fulfilled (though in a slightly different manner than I had originally envisioned). I was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1978 and, in 1994, the United States Senate.
The point is, little could I have known that a 40-year journey in elective office would commence just four years after my graduation, with a horrific event that could have been the end for me, rather than a beginning. I would never have wanted to face a crucial career choice at that perilous personal juncture, but it reminded me once again that it is possible to distill triumph from adversity. Because it's not a question of whether you will encounter difficulties in life; it's really a question of how you confront them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BLEXBOLEX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



89 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: High And Dry

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
IN the world of high-end real estate, it can be tough for other cities to keep up with Manhattan and Beverly Hills, with all the star power and headlines generated by 20-something heiresses paying more than $80 million apiece for trophy homes -- a kind of bicoastal battle of blank-check buyers.
But don't count out South Florida. The high-end market in Miami-Dade County may not have a Petra Ecclestone or Ekaterina Rybolovleva jetting in to spend money from her billionaire father, but its selling environment, once synonymous with bust, is seeing signs of a boom again.
Two weeks ago, a penthouse owned by Alex Birkenstock (from the German shoe company loved by the hippie crowd) sold for $25 million, a record apartment sale, to an Italian who controls an investment company. In recent days, a developer's 10-bedroom home on the exclusive Indian Creek Island, listed for $52 million, went into contract to a foreign buyer, brokers said. The price was not disclosed. 
If that deal closes, it will very likely top the post-bubble record for a residential property sale in Miami-Dade County, currently held by Edward Lampert, a hedge-fund billionaire, who bought a house on Indian Creek in March for $38.4 million, brokers said.
''Everything is kind of selling now,'' said Jill Hertzberg, one half of ''The Jills,'' a broker duo for Coldwell Banker in Miami who are co-listing the 10-bedroom home, at 3 Indian Creek Drive, which features a ''7-limo-size'' garage.
''You wonder how long it will last,'' Ms. Hertzberg said.
The pending sale on Indian Creek -- home to Julio Iglesias and Norman Braman, a billionaire art collector and former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles -- is the latest in a string of homes and lots that have sold on the island over the last three months. All of the sales have been over $10 million, and most have been by longtime residents acquiring neighboring properties.
New listings are carrying enormous price tags. The steel magnate Leroy Schecter recently put his 21,746-square-foot home on Indian Creek up for sale for $45 million. This week, Ian Bruce Eichner, a New York developer, raised the listing price of his 11,031-square-foot penthouse at Continuum towers in Miami Beach to $39 million from $35 million, to be ''in line with the market,'' said Dora Puig, the listing agent.
''This has been a market-moving year for Miami Beach,'' Ms. Puig said.
It wasn't always like this. Since 2006, when housing prices peaked, Miami has been widely viewed as the ''poster child for distressed real estate,'' with two-thirds of all sales being distressed as recently as 2010, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, a real estate appraiser.
But price jumps at the high end of the market are sharply outpacing the rest of it. The average price of a single-family home in the top 10 percent of sales -- over $1.75 million -- rose 22.1 percent over the past year, versus 4.5 percent for the overall nondistressed single-family segment, Mr. Miller said.
The run of big sales and bigger price increases started in December with a penthouse at the Setai Resort and Residences that sold to Kenneth C. Griffin, a Chicago hedge-fund billionaire, for $21.5 million, a record at the time.
''That lit the fuse,'' Ms. Puig said.
Then, in February, Alberto Bulus, the son-in-law of a wealthy insurance family from Rio de Janeiro, bought a 6,100-square-foot apartment in the Continuum for $16.2 million. (Mr. Bulus also owns a triplex penthouse of some 14,000 square feet in the Ipanema neighborhood of Rio overlooking the ocean, according to O Estado de S. Paulo, a Brazilian newspaper.)
At the Apogee, another luxury condo complex in Miami Beach, an apartment bought by a Russian couple for $11.5 million in April of last year is now listed for $25 million.
Ms. Puig said one of her listings, a penthouse at the Icon condominium, in South Beach, recently went into contract to a Latin American buyer above the asking price of $19 million.
On Indian Creek, just north of Miami Beach, the buying and selling pace has been faster than a cigarette powerboat. A half-dozen lots and homes have traded since last July, four since March. The village is among the most exclusive in the country, with only 32 houses surrounding a top golf course. Other residents include the Brazilian supermodel Adriana Lima, the former Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula, the billionaire investor Carl Icahn and Mario Luis Kreutzberger Blumenfeld, a TV presenter known by his stage name, Don Francisco.
The security on Indian Creek is tight. Unlike Star Island, which I visited in February, it has restricted access, because the road leading in is owned by the country club. A police force of 10 sworn officers protects 86 residents. The village even has its own 24-hour armed boat patrol.
All the homes are on the water. Mr. Schecter's home has 7 bedrooms, 14 bathrooms and 200 feet of waterfront. He listed it for $32 million in 2008 and raised the price that year to $35 million before taking it off the market in 2009.
The recent spate of sales, including the record-breaker to Mr. Lampert, who lives next door, justified the $45 million asking price, said Nelson Gonzalez of EWM Realtors, the listing broker.
(The 85-year-old Mr. Schecter, who has pledged to give 90 percent of his wealth to charity, also owns two apartments on the 35th floor at 15 Central Park West, one of which he rented to Alex Rodriguez of the New York Yankees. They are being renovated, a spokeswoman said. Last year he tried to sell them together for $55 million.)
Lately, longtime residents of Indian Creek have been doing most of the buying. Earlier this month Mr. Iglesias bought an 80,000-square-foot lot for $15.2 million; he now owns nearly 7 acres, Mr. Gonzalez said. At least two others, including Robert Diener, a co-founder of hotels.com, and Jaime Gillinski, a Colombian banker, have also bought more property there this year.
''It really is a couple of families that are trying to control the island,'' said Oren Alexander, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman who is co-listing 3 Indian Creek Drive, the home listed for $52 million that is now under contract. (His father, Shlomi Alexander, built the home.)
Or they are simply realizing that one day soon there won't be any more waterfront property on which to build new trophy mansions -- no matter how much an heiress is willing to pay.
''The future of extremely high-end real estate in Miami Beach,'' Mr. Gonzalez said, ''will be land.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAND HO! The steel magnate Leroy Schecter is asking $45 million for his Miami area home. (RE1)
 ENCHANTED ISLAND: This 10-bedroom home, left, on Indian Creek Island, listed at $52 million, is in contract. The island has only a few dozen homes surrounding a golf course. Properties there have been selling for over $10 million. (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); FOOTWEAR (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

PERSON: NORMAN BRAMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



90 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; RICHMOND JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Tax Soda Gets a Mixed Reception

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Calif. -- The California good life -- the one of endless varieties of lettuce and tasting rooms nestled in vineyards -- does not extend to Richmond's Iron Triangle, a neighborhood named for the railroad tracks that delineate its borders and historically one of the neediest communities in the Bay Area.
Even here at a sweaty Zumba class sponsored by a nonprofit group called Weigh of Life, the city's proposal for a one-cent-per-ounce tax on sugar-sweetened beverages, which is to appear on the November ballot, meets up against the hard realities of residents' lives.
''What don't I have?'' asked Rita Cerda, a longtime soda devotee, ticking off her ailments, including diabetes, high blood pressure and asthma. She is also overweight. 
''I have problems drinking water,'' she said. ''I don't like water.''
The proposed tax, a license fee on businesses selling sweetened drinks, would require owners of bodegas, theaters, convenience stores and other outlets to tally ounces sold and, presumably, pass the cost on to customers. It is the most visible West Coast municipal challenge yet to Big Soda, as advocates are fond of calling it.
Pending voter approval, money from the tax, which has been championed by Dr. Jeff Ritterman, a cardiologist turned City Council member, would go toward fighting childhood obesity through more bike lanes, nutritional education and after-school sports programs. Already a contentious issue locally, the potential tax is also being viewed as a beachhead by a coalition of beverage manufacturers, merchant groups and labor unions who are organizing to defeat it.
In Richmond, which has a substantial African-American and Latino population and where poverty rates are double the national average, an estimated 52 percent of elementary school students are overweight or obese, said Dr. Wendel Brunner, the director of public health for Contra Costa County, which includes Richmond.
As in other places, soda consumption is highest among teenagers, with more than two-thirds downing 1.8 sugar-sweetened beverages a day. Based on 242 calories a serving for a 20-ounce bottle of Coke, that equals roughly 150,000 extra calories and can lead to more than 20 pounds of weight gain a year, Dr. Brunner said. A recent study found an average of five retail food outlets within a quarter mile of every Richmond school.
Alongside the announcement last week by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York supporting an outright ban on the sale of sweetened drinks larger than 16 ounces, the coming vote in Richmond may be a sign that soda and similar beverages are becoming the new tobacco in terms of public perception of health risks.
''Both are pretty bold moves that wouldn't have been imaginable even five years ago,'' said Kelly M. Brownell, the director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University, which conducted much of the research supporting the efficacy of a one-cent beverage tax. ''It shows that government is beginning to stand up to the food industry and there is more public support for doing so.''
If the Richmond ordinance passes, it will be the first of its kind in the country intended specifically to combat obesity. But soda taxes have failed elsewhere -- most notably in Philadelphia, where Mayor Michael A. Nutter's attempts to impose a 2-cents-per-ounce charge on sugary drinks have sputtered twice. Nevertheless, Mr. Nutter is scheduled to be the keynote speaker this week at the nation's first Sugary Drinks Summit in Washington, sponsored by the Center for Science in the Public Interest.
In April, a Field Poll commissioned by a private statewide health foundation found that 62 percent of California voters surveyed said they supported imposing a special fee on sodas and soft drinks if money was used to fight obesity.
In Marin County, just across the bridge from Richmond but far more affluent, the county's third ''Soda-Free Summer,'' largely a cheerleading effort for more healthy choices, has just begun. Marin's obesity rates are among the lowest in the state, reflecting both its wealth and the profusion of parks and open spaces, where families may be spotted on weekends pushing all-terrain strollers up hiking trails with majestic ocean views.
In Richmond, many poor neighborhoods lack backyards and safe streets. The city's socioeconomic woes date to World War II, when more than 60,000 people arrived to work in the Kaiser Shipyards, quadrupling the city's population in two years. After the wartime boom, much of the worker housing and industrial areas eventually gave way to urban blight. Today, Richmond has the Bay Area's highest youth mortality rate.
Courtland Booze is a City Council member and a vocal opponent of the soda tax. ''We are primarily an economically suppressed community,'' he said. ''It will be a huge hardship.
''I eat sweet potato pie and candied yams,'' continued Mr. Booze, who is from Louisiana. ''And what about cupcakes? Are they going to tax those?''
The city's Chamber of Commerce is also opposed to the tax. A group fighting the tax that includes the beverage industry has begun dropping off ''Community Coalition Against Beverage Taxes'' placards at La Flore de Jalisco Market, a small, cheerful grocery store where soda bottles in dozens of hues match the colorful pinatas hanging from the ceiling.
Norma Vazquez, a cashier, worries about her son, Eric, who is 10 years old and weighs 135 pounds. ''My husband buys soda, but the doctor says no soda, just water,'' she said.
Charles Finnie, a vice president of BMWL, a San Francisco lobbying firm, called the tax ''an administrative nightmare for local businesses'' that would also put them at a competitive disadvantage, with customers opting for cheaper soda in nearby cities.
But Dr. Ritterman, the cardiologist and council member, argues that obesity-related diseases ''particularly fall on our black, brown and poor communities'' and that the tax would send a strong message.
Dr. Robert H. Lustig, a professor of pediatrics in the endocrinology division at the University of California, San Francisco, says that the disproportionate rates of obesity in places like Richmond lead to more Type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, lipid problems, strokes and, it appears likely, cancer and dementia.
''It's already a tax on poor people,'' Dr. Lustig said, referring to the lack of access to health insurance.
At the RYSE Youth Center, founded 12 years ago after the killing of four high school students, the soda issue seemed both close to the heart and far away.
Kayla Miller, an 18-year-old college freshman, said that if complexion problems from too much sugar would not deter her friends from drinking sodas, neither would a tax.
Shivneel Sen, 14, does not favor the tax but knows how the money should be spent if it passes.
''The police came heck of late,'' he said, recalling the recent death of a best friend. ''We need more of them.''
Kimberly Aceves, the center's executive director, says that too often, the burden for making healthy choices falls unfairly on young people. Society may say ''go exercise,'' she said, ''but if the community isn't safe, how many kids are going to go out running?''
''Soda is bad for you,'' Ms. Aceves said. ''So is violence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fitness class at a community center in Richmond, Calif., a city with high rates of poverty and obesity. A local effort to tax sweetened beverages has met resistance, including from Courtland Booze, left, a City Council member who calls it a hardship on poor people. Norma Vazquez, a cashier, below, worries about her son, who is 10 years old and 135 pounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL SHORT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); NUTRITION (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); DIETING (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); SPORTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BEVERAGE MFG (70%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (69%); POVERTY RATES (68%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); DIABETES (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



91 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; FEEDBACK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words

 BODY:
The cover article last Sunday, ''The Summer Rental Rat Race,'' reported on the increasing competition to attract summer and vacation renters. Following is a selection of reader comments from nytimes.com: 
The way we differentiate our Lake George property from those of absentee home ''investors'' is that we take it seriously as a business: we live on-site, we update our Web site frequently, and we find Vacation Rentals.com to be the most cost-effective of the big-boy aggregators. Certainly that level of engagement is something we don't typically see from the individual owners of one or two units. Also, in contrast to the expense of something like Europe or even Disney World, a 2- or 3-hour-drive vacation makes for a more affordable trip in these economic times. We also, when the sites allow it, look to link directly to our personal site from the one we're advertising on. Results? Our best season last year (out of three so far), and on target to match that this year.
PeteH, Upstate NY
My neighbor bought his house thinking he could make money off vacation rentals. He is not even close to breaking even. The fact that he is losing money every month makes me happy because it is a nightmare living next door to one of these rentals. The renters don't care about the people who live in the neighborhood, they have loud parties, their guests block the neighbors' driveways, they leave trash all around. So I have no sympathy for greedy people who lose money in this scheme. RAR, Calif.
The Internet (backed up by market forces) is a great thing -- easily giving vacationers more options, and forcing landlords to be more competitive and attentive to their property. Everyone wins. Michael, Pasadena, Calif.
In our Upstate NY summer bungalow community, we struggled to find the right way to target people who would find our ''old school'' lakefront, small units and social hall as charming as we do. After much research and some missteps, we found a very focused blog called upstater.net, which has a loyal following and recently started offering classified and advertising opportunities. Generic rental sites are fun and work well for properties that can be understood at a glance, but for us, this was the sweet spot. anonymom
New York, N.Y.
We have two vacation rentals here in Santa Fe, but our situation is somewhat unusual -- we live in one side of the building, and the rentals (plus four long-term apartments) are on the other side. Our thought was that we would meet nice people from all over, and that has been mainly true. We've only had one renter for whom we just wouldn't have anything suitable should he inquire again (not likely). I think having our own home page in addition to the VRBO and HomeAway listings helps. We still could use more business, though.
dude in the west,
new mexico

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (75%); LAKES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



92 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Even Now, the U.S. Market Looks the Best of a Bad Lot

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
EUROPE'S worsening debt crisis and the sharper-than-expected slowdown in China have weighed down stocks since the start of April. Yet some market strategists say that so long as these overseas fears don't morph into another global panic, they could serve another purpose: to remind investors that the domestic stock market may be the best choice among a tough set of options.
This may seem a difficult statement to make, after Friday's disappointing jobs report, which showed that the domestic economy produced just 69,000 new jobs in May, roughly 90,000 fewer than were expected. The bad news sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down by 2.5 percent on Friday. 
Yet even with the losses, the S.& P. 500 is still up nearly 2 percent for the year. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets index, meanwhile, is down more than 1 percent, and the MSCI EAFE index of foreign stocks in the developed world is off nearly 6 percent.
This performance mirrors a similar pattern since the fall of 2009, when signs of the European debt crisis began to emerge. The Leuthold Group studied the performance of 49 major stock markets since October 2009 and found that stocks in the United States outperformed those of 40 other countries -- many by a wide margin. And of the eight nations whose markets beat the United States, only South Korea is part of the developed world.
Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, noted that the jobs report was certainly a setback for the economy. ''But jobs are always a lagging indicator,'' he said. ''And one number is not going to change the relative attractiveness of the United States over other regions.''
Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, agreed. ''I still think that on a relative basis, the defensive quality of U.S. stocks makes them attractive,'' he said, adding that domestic shares have at least two other things going for them.
First, ''they're backed by an economy that, while hardly vigorous, is at least showing signs of sustainability,'' Mr. Luschini said. Much of the rest of the developed world, of course, cannot make such a claim right now.
Indeed, while gross domestic product in the United States is expected to expand just 2.2 percent this year, growth is expected to accelerate to 2.4 percent next year and 3.4 percent in 2014, according to IHS Global Insight. Many parts of Europe, meanwhile, are already in recession, and the G.D.P. in the euro zone isn't expected to reach a 2 percent annual growth pace until 2016. And while growth in Japan is running slightly ahead of the United States this year, the Japanese economy is expected to decelerate for the remainder of the decade.
Second, the domestic market also benefits from strong corporate balance sheets, relative to those from overseas. Companies in the S.& P. 500, for instance, are often sitting on record amounts of cash, and are generating record profits, with better-than-expected first-quarter results.
To be sure, global uncertainties may be weighing on the job market. ''Corporations are profitable and have billions in cash, but the lack of visibility in their operations due to what's going on globally is making them reluctant to hire,'' Mr. Luschini said. And if Europe's troubles worsen drastically, stock markets around the world will likely fall in lock step, which was evident last week.
''UNFORTUNATELY, in a true crisis, it's hard for individual equity markets to differentiate themselves as safe havens,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''But in an environment marked by less panic, there is the potential for the U.S. market to decouple somewhat from the direction of other equities.''
Mr. Richardson sees at least two big fundamental factors that are likely to drive investor interest to the United States. First, ''there's the state of U.S. banks,'' he said, noting that they have done a much better job of recapitalizing than their European counterparts after the 2008 financial crisis.
Moreover, he said, ''the housing market here continues to show strong signs of bottoming, which would be very encouraging since housing drives so much of the other parts of the economy.''
At the same time, a couple of side effects from the slowdown in China and Europe could also benefit domestic equities, market strategists say.
For starters, crude oil prices have fallen in recent weeks, partly because of renewed worry about the global recovery. After peaking above $108 a barrel in March, West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell to $83 last week. ''That should help keep the consumer in the game,'' Mr. Richardson said.
The woes in Europe and China have also added to investor fears, which, in a contrarian way, may be a positive sign for domestic stocks, said Doug Ramsey, Leuthold's chief investment officer. He noted that the Yale Crash Confidence index recently fell to an unusually low reading of around 25, down from 37 a year ago and 57 in 2007, before the financial crisis. The decline would indicate that a large number of institutional investors fear that stocks could suffer a big setback in the coming six months.
Mr. Ramsey pointed out that the index fell below a reading of 25 in 1990, 1998, 2002 and 2009 -- which marked four key stock market lows that led to major rallies.
Of course, it's possible that the current lack of market confidence is actually well grounded. But as investors learned in 2008, as bad as things get for domestic stocks, in a panic it can be much worse elsewhere around the globe.
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); JOB CREATION (70%); EURO ZONE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



93 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2596 words

HEADLINE: Travel

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER. 
Joshua Hammer, a former Newsweek bureau chief, is a freelance foreign correspondent. He is writing a book about German colonialism in southern Africa.

 BODY:
The fragility of the environment is a running concern in many of this season's travel books. Writers wander from Alaska to China to the Amazon documenting scenes of natural grandeur -- and mankind's irresistible urge to destroy them. The dumping of industrial effluent into the Ganges River and the surrender of China's rural beauty to urban sprawl are just two examples of these clashes between man and nature. Fortunately, evocative volumes about London and Naples remind us that human creations can also be sublime.
Thirty years ago, ''mired in a deteriorating marriage'' and on the cusp of 50, Edward Hoagland met a 30-ish nurse in Fairbanks, Alaska, and leapt at the chance to join her on her medical rounds throughout the state. The result is ALASKAN TRAVELS: Far-Flung Tales of Love and Adventure (Arcade, $22.95), a rhapsodic account of their journeys by single-engine Cessna to a series of remote settlements. ''I . . . was plenty content with starlight round the clock,'' writes this celebrated author and essayist, who finds that subfreezing temperatures and spartan conditions can act as a kind of aphrodisiac, ''sleeping catch as catch can on a clinic or schoolroom floor with my friend, while she tested the populace of the hamlet for tuberculosis.'' 
When not watching his lover take sputum samples from the locals, Hoagland fills his notebooks with material gathered from the Kenai Peninsula to the Arctic Circle to the Yukon River. He finds a land awash in oil money and opportunity yet blighted by pockets of poverty and desolation. His encounters with indigenous people -- like the polar bear hunter who ''pursued his passionate specialty far out on the pack ice solo'' and boasts of having shot 36 of the creatures -- illuminate a fragile culture struggling to hold on to its traditions. He also meets many transplants from the lower 48, some lured by the chance for adventure, others fleeing broken lives: ''A marital or business tailspin, some stinging dismissal or ill-healed wound, even a motorcycle accident, could have propelled people here.''
Hoagland captures a world of extremes where alcohol abuse is rampant, violence breaks out in places miles from the nearest law enforcement agent and the harsh climate permits no mistakes: ''In the winter, a drunk could stumble home, forget to light the fire in his hovel before passing out'' and be found dead in the morning. ''Alaska plays for keeps,'' Hoagland observes, ''with its whiteouts and fog multiplying the ordinary factors of luck and risk.''
Hoagland climaxes this memorable odyssey with a summertime float on the Tanana River on a tugboat pushing barges loaded with airplane fuel and equipment for an Air Force base in the interior. Reflecting on his adventure three decades later, Hoagland, now almost an octogenarian, remarks that Alaska is ''a kind of coccyx on the body politic, reminding us -- if we dream on it -- of a Lewis-and-Clark past. . . . a national dreamscape severed from the hourly news.''
Benjamin Taylor's NAPLES DECLARED: A Walk Around the Bay (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95) pays homage to a beautiful yet hard-edge city. From its early days as a colony of ancient Greece, Taylor traces Naples's successive incarnations as a Roman summer retreat, a Norman dominion and an incubator of Renaissance geniuses like Caravaggio. Later it became a battleground between 18th-century royalists and republicans, a city struggling under Nazi occupation and a modern-day haven for the southern Italian Mafia, the Camorra.
Taylor's tour is a bit static, bogged down by a few too many visits to monuments, palaces, fortresses and other spots that evoke the city's turbulent past. But his encounters with quirky Neapolitans -- a die-hard Communist still seething over his party's 1948 electoral defeat by the Christian Democrats, a Buddhist taxi driver who enlightens Taylor over dinner at a dive cafe -- inject some spontaneity into the proceedings. And he serves up some morbidly entertaining nuggets of Neapolitan history. One concerns Francesco Caracciolo, a naval commander under the Bourbon kings who rebelled and helped found a brief, unsuccessful republic. After his capture and execution by the Bourbons' ally, Lord Nelson, Caracciolo's corpse was dumped into the bay. ''In the surreal aftermath,'' Taylor writes, ''Caracciolo's body, though weighted at the feet, resurfaced . . . and seemed to all who saw him, including the newly returned king, to be making his way back to Naples. Terrified, Ferdinand ordered a Christian burial.'' No wonder Henry James described the city as ''at the best wild and weird and sinister.''
Looming above it all is Mount Vesuvius, whose periodic eruptions seem to be reflected in Naples's political instability and outbursts of violence. Yet the glory of the city outweighs its ghastly aspects. On a recent visit, Taylor admires ''Vesuvius clear of clouds, the lanterns of a few fishing boats flickering in the harbor, some scraps of song floating up from Mergellina, and Capri's lights dimly visible at the vanishing point.''
Ghastliness permeates Andrew Blackwell's VISIT SUNNY CHERNOBYL: And Other Adventures in the World's Most Polluted Places (Rodale, $25.99), a mordant account of his travels through environmental disaster zones. This self-described ''pollution tourist'' seeks a variety of sites facing ruin through human indifference and reckless pursuit of profit. However, at his first stop, Chernobyl, he finds the reverse: nature reclaiming a region made unfit for human habitation by the 1986 meltdown. ''I had come to the Exclusion Zone to witness its unexpected and riotous efflorescence,'' he writes of his surreal visit with a pair of vodka-and-beer-loving escorts. ''There was something joyous in the sight of nature rushing into an unpeopled world. But it was a garden fed with suffering.''
In Fort McMurray, in Alberta, Canada, notorious for its oil sands -- thick sludge buried underground whose extraction leaves behind vast amounts of poisonous wastewater -- Blackwell investigates the mass death of waterfowl in ponds filled with toxic tailing. Then it's on to Port Arthur, Tex., ''a refinery town, with oil in its veins, toluene in the breeze, . . . the pungent center jewel in America's petrochemical tiara, also known as the Gulf Coast.'' In India, he tours the Yamuna River, a once scenic waterway that has been transformed into ''a great urban outflow, a stream of human sewage.'' The most ambitious part of Blackwell's journey is a three-week sail by brigantine to the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, which he describes as ''an island of trash, formed by a giant vortex of currents that gather all the eternal, floating plastic in the northern half of the Pacific Ocean into an endless swirling purgatory.''
Blackwell's book presents vivid descriptions of these wretched places, along with both their polluters and the crusaders who are trying -- usually without success -- to clean them up. Eventually, though, the parade of blighted land- and seascapes grows bleakly tiresome, and his insights about the clashes of industry and nature start to feel equally bleakly familiar. Still, his road trip through hell has a sobering effect. ''Our environment is not on the brink of something,'' he concludes, after encountering soybean farms gobbling up the Amazon rain forest. ''It is over the brink -- over several brinks -- and has been for some time.''
In TRACKING BODHIDHARMA: A Journey to the Heart of Chinese Culture (Counterpoint, $26), Andy Ferguson follows in the footsteps of the charismatic fifth-century South Indian monk who founded Chan Buddhism (better known in the West by its Japanese name, Zen) and spread it across China. Piecing together clues to the nomadic missionary's life from ancient texts, Ferguson travels first to Guangzhou, where Bodhidharma alighted from a boat traveling along the Pearl River around A.D. 479. Then he heads north toward the Yangtze, the great divide the First Patriarch was said to have crossed on ''a single blade of grass.'' Ferguson, an American who is fluent in Chinese, visits out-of-the-way temples and monasteries where Bodhidharma resided or visited, and meets monks, scholars and ordinary pilgrims dedicated to his teachings. He also observes how a religion based on meditation and retreat from worldly preoccupations has hung on despite campaigns to destroy it and despite China's transformation into an economic colossus.
Ferguson's writing is sometimes plodding, and his forays into the more obscure tenets of Zen can leave the layman confused. But he leavens these sections with digressions into Chinese history and the intersection of religion and politics. Xiao Yan, who defeated the unstable boy emperor Baoyuan near Nanjing and reigned for four /decades as the Emperor Wu, shrewdly embraced Buddhism and fused it with Confucianism, the ancient philosophical system based on obeisance to authority. In contrast, the cadres of Mao's Cultural Revolution banned Buddhism, arrested practitioners and demolished many temples. Yet Ferguson observes that modern China's Communist rulers have reached an easy accommodation with Zen, whose practitioners are, he believes, ''usually content to practice their religion quietly and . . . tend to emphasize meditation over confrontation.''
Ultimately, though, Ferguson's book is as much about loss as it is about discovery. Many of the places on the First Patriarch's trail have been reduced to fragments or have disappeared entirely, courtesy of Red Guard vandalism or the imperatives of capitalism. Searching in Nanjing's Six Harmonies district for the ancient Changlu Temple, Ferguson finds only factories and unattractive school buildings: ''The sight of the petrochemical plants surrounding Six Harmonies village is . . . depressing. They seem to say that not only is Changlu Temple unimportant, but also there's no chance that it will ever be remembered and rebuilt. Any remnants of the place will soon yield to the need for making more polyvinyl chloride for New China.''
In JOHNSON'S LIFE OF LONDON: The People Who Made the City That Made the World (Riverhead, $27.95), Boris Johnson serves up a sparkling blend of history, biography and geography. The popular London mayor and former editor of The Spectator magazine chronicles his city's rise through a series of chapter-length profiles of artists, politicians, warriors and other notables. The book abounds with familiar names: William the Conqueror, Florence Nightingale, Samuel Johnson, Winston Churchill. But Johnson also sprinkles in some less familiar figures, including Robert Hooke, a hunchbacked Renaissance man who was, in the words of the historian Stephen Inwood, ''the forgotten genius of the 17th century.'' Unfortunately, Hooke was vain, competitive and quarrelsome, unwisely taking on Sir Isaac Newton in a feud that consigned him to oblivion.
Pedaling around the city on his bicycle, Johnson visits familiar sites -- the Tower of London, the Globe Theater -- where his subjects left their marks. Among these are the Cabinet War Rooms, the underground bunkers where ''you can almost taste the gulfs of tobacco taken in and exhaled by the nut-colored lungs of its most famous denizens -- Eden, Beaverbrook, pipe-puffing Atlee and Churchill himself, each with his square metal ashtray in front of him.'' And, after years of trying to meet one of his idols, Keith Richards, he corners the star at a ceremony in Covent Garden and manages a stammering conversation about the Rolling Stones' influence on the Eagles.
Johnson's exuberant paean makes a persuasive case that genius breeds genius. As he puts it, ''London works as a cyclotron of talent: drawing bright people together and then bouncing them off each other in a chain reaction of energy and emulation. . . . Fame is the spur, said Milton, and London is fame's echo chamber.''
London takes on a less appealing cast in THE SKEPTICAL ROMANCER: Selected Travel Writing (Vintage, paper, $15), a new edition of an anthology of W. Somerset Maugham's travel essays originally edited for Everyman's Library by Pico Iyer. Here the gloomy weather and oppressive atmosphere propel Maugham to more exotic climes -- Seville, say, or sultry Southeast Asia at the height of French colonial rule. ''The sky is leaden and cold, the houses in front of me are almost terrible in their monotonous grayness, the slate roofs are shining with the wet,'' Maugham complains in the first entry, looking back on an escape from England to southern Spain. ''My mind is suddenly ablaze with its sunshine, with its opulent color, luminous and soft; I think of the cities, the white of Andalusia cities bathed in light; of the desolate wastes of sand, with their dwarf palms, the broom in flower.''
The book takes us along on Maugham's rambles in Europe and his travels through China, Burma, Vietnam and Cambodia. There are poignant descriptions of French colonial Saigon, made all the more haunting by the knowledge that Dien Bien Phu awaits: ''Outside the hotels are terraces, and at the hour of the aperitif they are crowded with bearded, gesticulating Frenchmen, drinking the sweet and sickly beverages . . . which they drink in France, and they talk 19 to the dozen in the rolling accent of the Midi.'' And Maugham's account of his journey to Angkor Wat makes you long for the days before package tourism. Traveling by steamer and sampan, he arrives at last at the ruined temple complex: ''Silence seemed to dwell in these courts like a presence that you could see if you turned round. . . . And it gave me I know not what strange feeling to look at the living forest that surrounded this great gray pile so closely, the jungle luxuriant and gay in the sunlight, a sea of different greens; and to know that there all around me had once stood a multitudinous city.''
Francis Slakey's TO THE LAST BREATH: A Memoir of Going to Extremes (Simon & Schuster, $25) begins with a moment of suspense. Sleeping ''on a cot pinned to a sheer granite wall 2,000 feet'' up El Capitan, at Yosemite, he's jolted awake when the strips of webbing holding together his flimsy bed start to unravel. He and his climbing partner narrowly avert a fatal plunge to the valley floor. But this account of Slakey's quest to conquer the highest peaks on all seven continents (and surf every ocean) is more than another tale of high-octane machismo. A lecturer in physics and public policy at Georgetown University, Slakey charts his emotional journey from a childhood devastated by his mother's premature death from cancer to a swaggering adult life as a mountaineer and scientist, driven to excel yet emotionally stunted by the tragedy. ''The lesson I drew then, as a teenager, seemed so obvious, so unmistakably clear,'' he writes. ''Don't form attachments; avoid more loss.''
Slakey stays on the move, racking up impressive achievements but alienating fellow adventurers. It's only after a brush with death at the hands of gunmen at a gold mine in the jungle of West Papua, Indonesia -- whose territory he must cross to reach 16,024-foot Puncak Jaya -- that Slakey begins to mellow. The once arrogant loner finds satisfaction in a relationship with an Italian-/American marathon runner he first encountered on the trail to Mount Everest. And he becomes involved in a campaign to cut off American funding to the Indonesian military, which is suspected of engineering a later ambush near the same gold mine that left two Americans dead. ''This was no longer a self-absorbed quest,'' he /explains. ''The climbing and surfing record had taken me in an unexpected direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAKE AWAY: Text and photographs by Jean-Francois Mallet. 352 pp. Chronicle Books. $35.
 Food to go, around the world. Above, a takeout stand on Rodrigues Island in the Indian Ocean. (BR17) DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%); SPORT HUNTING (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (58%) ALASKA, USA (95%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



94 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 960 words

PERSON: Earl Shorris 

HEADLINE: Earl Shorris, 75, Dies; Fought Poverty With Knowledge

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Earl Shorris, a social critic and author whose interviews with prison inmates for a book inspired him to start a now nationally recognized educational program that introduces the poor and the unschooled to Plato, Kant and Tolstoy, died on May 27 in New York. He was 75.
The cause was complications of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his son Anthony said. 
Mr. Shorris, who wrote a dozen books during the first 35 years of his career, many sharply critical of Western culture as sliding toward plutocracy and materialism, became best known in his final years for founding the Clemente Course in the Humanities. Established in 1995 with 25 students at the Roberto Clemente Family Guidance Center in the East Village of Manhattan, the program offers the disadvantaged a 10-month curriculum of philosophy, history, art, literature and logic. It earned Mr. Shorris the National Humanities Medal, presented to him in 2000 by President Bill Clinton.
Since 1995, the program has been introduced in about 20 cities around the country, as well as in Canada, Australia and Korea, according to administrators of the Bard College Clemente Course in the Humanities, which oversees the project. In groups of 20 to 30 students per course, several thousand have tackled the program's rigorous readings and explications of Aristotle on logic, Plato on justice and Kant's theory of morality. The program is free, and books, carfare and baby-sitting are provided.
In every outpost, the target audience is the same: the poor and unemployed, low-wage workers, ex-convicts, addicts and the homeless. By Mr. Shorris's own account, the enterprise has scored many wins and many losses. Some students were inspired, some were not, some died of AIDS, and some -- like Moise Koffi of the Bronx, who described himself as drifting toward poverty before taking the course 10 years ago at a community center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. -- went on to earn bachelor's and graduate degrees.
While education policy has leaned in recent decades toward giving students work skills, Mr. Shorris's idea was to teach what he considered the ultimate skills: reflection and critical thinking, as taught by the humanities. ''If the multigenerational poor are to make the leap out of poverty, it will require a new kind of thinking -- reflection,'' he wrote in 1997. ''And that is a beginning.'' The study of the humanities, he said, is ''in itself a redistribution of wealth.''
As a writer, beginning in the 1960s, Mr. Shorris produced a diverse body of work, including sociological examinations of the American way of employment and commerce, magazine journalism on the demise of the hippie counterculture of the 1960s, learned volumes on Latino history and identity, and social commentaries that appeared regularly in Harper's Magazine and were broadcast on National Public Radio.
His novels were known for their dark humor. In one of his earliest, ''The Boots of the Virgin'' (1968), Mr. Shorris mined his brief career during the late 1950s as a bullfighter in Mexico to portray his antihero, Sol Feldman, a Jewish bullfighter of little talent known professionally as El Sol de Michigan.
In two books of nonfiction, ''The Oppressed Middle: Politics of Middle Management'' (1981) and ''A Nation of Salesmen: The Tyranny of the Market and the Subversion of Culture'' (1994), he drew on his work during the 1970s as an executive for the national advertising firm N. W. Ayer and Sons, where he handled the General Motors and American Telephone & Telegraph accounts. But he was not happy in advertising, he wrote, describing it as ''not immoral, except as waste is immoral.''
It was while researching a book published in 1997, ''New American Blues: A Journey Through Poverty to Democracy,'' that Mr. Shorris happened upon the vocation that would occupy his last years. He was interviewing inmates at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility for Women in Westchester County, N.Y., asking for their opinions on why poor people were poor. One inmate, Viniece Walker, told him it was because they lacked ''the moral life of downtown'' -- meaning, she said, exposure to ''plays, museums, concerts, lectures, you know.''
''You mean the humanities,'' Mr. Shorris replied, surprised by her answer.
''Yes, Earl, the humanities,'' she said.
Ms. Walker's words triggered an epiphany of sorts, Mr. Shorris wrote in a 1997 Harper's essay: Poverty was an absence of reflection and beauty, not an absence of money. It was comparable to the experience of people chained to the wall of the cave in Plato's Allegory of the Cave, he said: They see shadows on the walls, and assume that is all there is in the world. At the first Clemente Course meeting, ''I passed out their reading assignment. Of course, it was the Allegory of the Cave,'' he wrote.
Earl Shorris was born in Chicago on June 25, 1936, the son Samuel and Betty Shorris, and moved to El Paso as a child with his family. His father worked in the insurance business. At 13, Mr. Shorris was admitted on a full scholarship to the University of Chicago, where he was deeply influenced by the so-called Great Books model of higher education introduced in the 1940s by the university's longtime president, Robert Maynard Hutchins. He left before graduating, however, and worked as a newspaper reporter and freelance writer -- with a stint bullfighting in Juarez, across the border from El Paso, during his early 20s -- before settling with his wife, Sylvia, in San Francisco.
Besides his wife and his son Anthony, Mr. Shorris is survived by another son, James; a sister, Mary Jean Roberts; and four grandchildren.
The Clemente Course ''changed the direction of my life,'' said Mr. Koffi, an immigrant from Ivory Coast. ''I was in darkness, like the man in the story of the cave, and my mind was opened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl Shorris in 1992. (PHOTOGRAPH BY W. W. NORTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LITERARY CRITICISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); AIDS & HIV (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); JOURNALISM (62%); LYMPHOMA (57%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

BILL CLINTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



95 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Sign Pollution in Florida With Robocalls

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
In Florida, they are as much a part of the landscape as palm trees and oceanfront hotels: plastic signs cluttering roadsides with messages like ''We Buy Houses!'' ''Junk Cars!'' and ''Avoid Foreclosure!''
But now, worried about the impact on tourism and the state's natural beauty, some coastal communities have begun aggressive campaigns against the signs -- by robocalling the advertisers' phone numbers. 
''It's the only crime I know of where a person deliberately leaves their phone number behind,'' said Mayor Peter Bober of Hollywood, which uses computer software to call the phone numbers, up to 20 times per day, until offenders pay a $75 fine. ''They want us to call. So let's call. And keep calling.''
Think of it as fighting one nuisance with another. The advertisements, known as snipe signs, are illegal in many Florida communities on public property like highway medians or telephone poles. But they are also cheap to print and hard to eradicate.
After years of removing the signs by hand, officials in Hollywood, Oakland Park and St. Johns County recently turned to robocalling. Other cities say they are considering the option.
''If everywhere you see these rickety-rockety, hodgepodge signs, the impression is not 'This is a place people will want to visit,' '' said Mayor Anne E. Sallee of Oakland Park. ''Instead of the attractive landscapes that people expect in Florida, you just see these signs, helter-skelter, lying there like a pile of beer cans.''
The technology is simple. Police officers enter the offenders' phone numbers into computer programs that generate automated messages advising the recipient to come to the police station. The pestering does not stop until the advertiser turns in the signs and, in some cases, pays a fine. The software costs $300.
Cities say they are worried that the flashy signs for ''Cheap Houses'' and ''Bankruptcy Relief'' will remind tourists of the slow economy, especially in Florida, which has the nation's highest foreclosure rate.
The Hollywood police used to spend hours each week gathering the signs by hand. In 2009, Mr. Bober held a contest to award $500 to the person who picked up the most (the winner collected nearly 500 that day), and the signs disappeared. But they returned almost as quickly.
Since the robocalls began in March, the number of signs in Hollywood has fallen by an estimated 80 percent, city officials say. So far, the city has called more than 100 phone numbers, issued eight citations and gathered hundreds of signs.
Advertisers, of course, are annoyed. Many have complained that the tactics are excessive and antibusiness. One, Catherine Regal, a 65-year-old real estate agent, says she markets homes in newspapers, online and on ''For Sale'' signs stapled to telephone poles around the neighborhood. ''The signs are so effective, you wouldn't believe,'' she said.
In March, she began to receive automated calls from the police. At first, she ignored them, but they came every hour. ''It's absurd,'' she said. She is especially vexed that politicians are allowed to print and post such signs, even though it is for limited periods of time and with city permission. ''Why can the city put up signs but we can't?''
The California-based company that makes the robocalling software, Voicent, has sold it to more than 1,000 cities in the United States and Canada, said its marketing director, Jerry Scharf. Most cities use it to send weather alerts to schools or emergency transit alerts to travelers. Many political campaigns also use the software.
But some cities have expressed caution about the technology. The City of Leesburg, Fla., has struggled with snipe signs, but officials worry that robocalls would send the wrong message, said Robert Sargent, a city spokesman. ''It would have been a little too much like we were harassing people,'' he said.
But Mr. Bober says advertisers know that what they are doing is illegal. ''They may feign ignorance,'' he said. ''But most advertisers know they've been caught with their pants down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Catherine Regal, a real estate agent, says it is unfair that politicians are allowed to print and post signs but that businesses are not.
 Mayor Peter Bober has seen the number of signs in Hollywood fall by about 80 percent since robocalling began in March. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CITIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



96 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2338 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Public Service for Lawyers

 BODY:
Readers debate a 50-hour pro bono requirement in New York.
The Letter
To the Editor:
In ''Rethinking Pro Bono'' (Op-Ed, May 14), Ben Trachtenberg casts Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman's new legal public service requirement as bad policy, saying students and graduates can't afford it, can't do it and shouldn't be asked to do it since better ideas abound. Starting in 2013, candidates for admission to the New York State Bar must complete 50 hours of public service.
Contrary to Mr. Trachtenberg's argument, 50 hours of pro bono work will not mire law students and graduates in poverty. Moreover, volunteers can make a difference while gaining skills, confidence and links to jobs.
Consider the Courtroom Advocates Project, in which students and graduates, supervised by lawyers from Sanctuary for Families, advocate for domestic violence victims to obtain protective orders. At Cardozo and Columbia Law Schools this spring, students helped relief workers and others who developed health problems apply for awards from the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. 
No one suggests that students be routinely substituted for experienced attorneys, but with legal aid programs underfunded and turning away more clients than they accept, and with courts and agencies flooded with unrepresented people, it is common sense to involve students and graduates in roles that they can responsibly perform.
The pro bono requirement may have hidden virtues. Over time, schools, firms and the courts may guide more resources toward public service, helping to improve its quality. The first opportunity to do pro bono can also make the second easier, instilling in many a commitment for life.
Alternative approaches may also have merit, but credit the chief judge for acting in urgent times to make this good idea a reality.
DAVID UDELL New York, May 25, 2012
The writer is executive director of the National Center for Access to Justice, a nonprofit organization based at Cardozo Law School.
Readers React
I do not share Mr. Trachtenberg's concern that requiring 50 hours of pro bono work as a condition to bar admission is unfair to new lawyers who, no matter how financially stressed, should be grateful for the opportunities this work will provide them to obtain valuable early experience advising real clients with real problems.
Nor do I share Mr. Udell's optimism that the requirement is likely to encourage law firms and others to devote more resources to pro bono legal work. Instead, it's more likely that the requirement will perpetuate an unfortunate perception -- and one that's increasingly held among law firms facing financial pressures themselves -- that providing legal services for the poor and underserved is primarily a training exercise for inexperienced junior lawyers.
By suggesting that an attorney's pro bono obligations are discharged even before he or she engages in legal practice for ''real clients,'' the new requirement will no doubt be taken by many lawyers as support for the largely unspoken proposition that pro bono work, like the bar exam, is merely a rite of passage rather than a continuing commitment.
Only seasoned law firm lawyers can reverse this perception and set a powerful example to their junior colleagues by taking on pro bono matters and by encouraging and closely supervising younger lawyers who do so. Moreover, the biennial New York State bar renewal process provides a ready means for this to happen. In much the same way that specified hours of continuing legal education are required to maintain bar admission, New York could adopt a pro bono service requirement.
Such a measure would not only ensure that lawyers meet their responsibilities to the poor and underserved throughout their careers and enhance the stature of pro bono work within law firms, but perhaps most important, it would also promise to improve the quality of legal services to those most in need and least able to afford them.
MARK UNDERBERG New York, May 30, 2012
The writer, a former partner at a large law firm, is now a legal consultant.
New York's new requirement of 50 hours of pro bono work is to be applauded. Pro bono work provides law students valuable legal training, helps meet the enormous unmet demand for legal services and instills a lifelong habit of public service.
Critics have said the pro bono requirement is too onerous for law students. This objection is meritless. At the University of California, Irvine School of Law, all second- and third-year students are expected to do at least 50 hours of pro bono work per year, and are required to participate in a legal clinic. Collectively, our 58 graduates logged more than 5,600 hours of pro bono service during their three years of law school.
Critics have also said law students are not competent to perform pro bono work. This, too, is wrong. Our students successfully represented an Iraqi refugee in immigration court, foster families in administrative hearings and people seeking public access to beaches. In our clinics, students litigated and won cases in the federal court of appeals, and they have prepared documents for community organizations to receive nonprofit and tax-exempt status. With supervision, law students can do extraordinarily high-quality legal work.
The legal profession has a monopoly on providing legal services and the duty to help those who cannot afford legal services. All law students and lawyers should be expected to do pro bono work. The New York requirement should be a model for state bars across the country.
ERWIN CHEMERINSKY CATHERINE FISK Irvine, Calif., May 30, 2012
The writers are professors at the University of California, Irvine School of Law. Mr. Chemerinsky is dean of the law school.
Requiring pro bono service of New York bar applicants, while helpful, is not enough. More than 90,000 New Yorkers got divorced in 2009; many could not afford to pay a lawyer hundreds of dollars per hour to represent them. If each bar applicant spent 10 hours on each of these clients, it would still leave nearly half of them unrepresented, along with untold numbers facing legal issues around foreclosure, eviction, employment and consumer issues.
Just as not every medical problem requires a doctor, not every legal problem should require a lawyer. Licensing nonlawyers to provide simple legal services, such as completion of forms, would help people who are not capable of navigating the legal system but cannot afford a lawyer. At the same time, the legal system needs to be simplified, so that its users can navigate it without intermediaries. Without systemic change, the legal needs of New Yorkers will never be met.
TOM GORDON Executive Director, Consumers for a Responsive Legal System Washington, May 30, 2012
The new pro bono requirement looks like a policy enacted by a profession that wants to appear altruistic but doesn't want to do the work that it entails. It's bizarre that the legal profession would require work to be done by people who are, by definition, not licensed to do the work, let alone experienced enough to give useful advice.
If the profession were truly committed to pro bono work, it would require licensed attorneys to demonstrate a certain number of hours of service as a requirement for our biennial registration. It is conspicuous and suspect that the new requirement does not follow that model.
RON L. MEYERS New York, May 30, 2012
The writer is a lawyer.
The American Bar Association strongly encourages pro bono work by lawyers as a key component of our legal system. Every lawyer has a professional responsibility to provide free legal services to those who are unable to pay. One of our A.B.A. Model Rules calls for every lawyer to perform at least 50 hours of pro bono legal services each year. The A.B.A. has encouraged all state bars and bar associations to implement this rule. Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman's recent proposal further emphasizes that pro bono is an essential privilege of our profession.
In these challenging economic times, we know that law students and young lawyers face an uncertain future. And lawyers of all ages and levels of experience are facing even more demands on their professional lives. At the same time, legal aid funding is drastically declining, while the legal needs of those living in poverty are dramatically increasing.
Visionary and experimental approaches are needed to expand pro bono legal services. That is just another reason the A.B.A. sponsored its first-ever National Pro Bono Summit in the fall of 2011, to share strategies and chart a new course for additional volunteerism in our profession. It can only help the cause of justice to have more people talking about the responsibility of law schools and lawyers to serve the legal needs of those of more modest means in our country.
In the process, lawyers will gain practical experience and skills development needed to succeed in the legal profession. WM.
T. ROBINSON III LARRY S. McDEVITT Washington, June 1, 2012
Mr. Robinson is president of the American Bar Association, and Mr. McDevitt is chairman of its pro bono committee.
The pro bono requirement presents a special problem for part-time evening law students. They typically work a full-time job by day, attend classes at night -- often past 10 p.m. -- and devote weekends to the legendarily demanding homework of law school. Many also attend class during the summer.
While they could be obliged to do pro bono work at night instead of classes, fewer good options exist for those who have day jobs.
JEFF SOVERN Jamaica, Queens, May 30, 2012
The writer is a law professor at St. John's University and co-coordinator of the Consumer Law and Policy Blog.
The debate over New York's new pro bono requirement should begin with a stark fact: each year, more than 2.3 million New Yorkers must defend their homes, livelihoods and families without any legal representation.
Providing equal access to justice is a matter of basic fairness. But the lack of adequate counsel for low-income New Yorkers is particularly indefensible given evidence that legal assistance is a cost-effective investment.
For example, a task force convened by Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman found that legal services programs saved state taxpayers at least $116 million by keeping low-income tenants in their homes, and at least $85 million a year in costs relating to domestic violence. Foreclosure prevention is similarly proved to provide huge returns to the state, by stabilizing property values, preventing an increase in crime and protecting families from dislocation. And yet, legal services offices regularly turn away clients in need because of a lack of resources.
We must meet the needs of our most vulnerable neighbors. Chief Judge Lippman is right to call for expanding pro bono representation. We must also increase state and federal funding for legal services.
MARK LADOV Counsel Brennan Center for Justice New York University School of Law New York, May 31, 2012
To the extent that an applicant to the New York bar will be required to perform 50 pro bono service hours outside of the law school curriculum, it is a bad idea.
As a board member of a local legal services provider and as executive director of a county bar association, I am an advocate for increasing pro bono service by attorneys. However, I am scared at the prospect of poor people being represented by potentially unemployed recent graduates who have no mentor or supervisor. One fears that the goal will simply be to accumulate hours and not to achieve justice.
Our small county bar association requires members to either volunteer their time one day a year at the local legal aid office, taking on representation of indigent clients as may be necessary, or pay a fee to opt out of such service. As of the last reporting year, $85,000 was raised for legal services while 200 clients were helped.
Law schools, in a clinic environment where supervision and mentoring can be provided, should require pro bono representation for graduation. In such an environment, it is more likely justice will result for the indigent client while the aspiring attorney will be enriched by the pro bono experience, ''instilling in many a commitment for life,'' as Mr. Udell hopes.
A successful pro bono program needs to be client-centered and not just another hurdle to overcome for bar admission.
DONALD F. SMITH Jr. Executive Director Berks County Bar Association Reading, Pa., May 31, 2012
The Writer Responds
Let's recall the stakes. Millions of people have their lives altered in the New York courts because they lack the necessary legal assistance. It is an intolerable situation. Requiring bar applicants to complete 50 hours of pro bono service is a step up from the abyss.
Yes, much more pro bono from professionals would be terrific and reflect well on the profession, as Mr. Underberg and Mr. Meyers say. Yes, law school clinics and focused mentorships offer high-quality pro bono opportunities to students, as Mr. Smith says. Yes, many legal proceedings should be simplified so they do not require a lawyer, as Mr. Gordon suggests.
But pro bono for professionals still remains a goal, not a requirement. Clinics and mentorships have great strengths, not vast capacity. And while New York is rightly a leader in court simplification, we still have a long way to go here and across the country.
Let's not overestimate the students and grads -- they won't be doing what their supervisors are doing. But, as Professors Chemerinsky and Fisk make clear, let's not underestimate them either, not when they're successful in a broad range of settings.
Scaling this up is the challenge now -- developing new models to train, supervise and support the new recruits. Already a blue-chip advisory group is tackling a dozen issues, including who's covered, what counts and when it all begins.
To be sure, progress is still needed on many fronts, and expanding civil legal services is a top concern. But let's applaud the progress that's just been made. And let's see what our students and graduates can do.
DAVID UDELL New York, June 1, 2012

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL FROST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRO BONO LAW (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL AID (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (75%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: JONATHAN J JUDGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



97 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Strasburg Shackles Braves for Seven Innings and Keeps the Nationals Alone in First

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stephen Strasburg pitched four-hit ball for seven innings and Jesus Flores homered, leading the host Washington Nationals over the Atlanta Braves, 2-0, on Saturday.
The Nationals remained alone in first place in the National League East, one game ahead of the Mets and the Florida Marlins.
Strasburg (6-1) completed seven scoreless innings for the first time in the major leagues. He opened with a flourish, striking out the first four Braves batters. 
Strasburg struck out nine, walked none and threw 90 pitches in lowering his earned run average to 2.35. Twice he gave up singles and then induced double-play grounders.
Strasburg had won his previous two starts, but in the process he had allowed 7 runs, 10 hits and 5 walks in 10 innings.
''I just expected a little bit too much out of myself, and it was kind of getting me away from what I was trying to do, what I wanted to do out there,'' he said. ''Today was huge, for me to go out there and keep it simple.''
Less than two years removed from Tommy John elbow surgery, Strasburg is on a strict innings limit, and in each of his previous two starts, he was pulled after five innings. But he was so economical with this pitches Saturday that Manager Davey Johnson said he thought he could have gone ''another inning or two.''
Atlanta has lost 9 of 11.
MARLINS 5, PHILLIES 4 Miami's Hanley Ramirez hit his 9th and 10th home runs, and Ricky Nolasco (6-3) improved to 6-1 in seven career starts at Philadelphia.
Jose Reyes's run-scoring double extended his hitting streak to 13 games for the Marlins, who won for the fourth time in five games and denied Cole Hamels (8-2) the victory. Hunter Pence homered for the second straight game for the Phillies.
DODGERS 6, ROCKIES 2 Bobby Abreu hit his first home run as visiting Los Angeles ended a five-game losing streak.
Colorado starter Juan Nicasio left in the second inning with a strained left knee. Last season, Nicasio had surgery to repair a cracked vertebra after he was hit by a line drive.
REDS 12, ASTROS 9 Drew Stubbs homered and drove in four runs, and Brandon Phillips added three R.B.I. as Cincinnati sent host Houston to its eighth straight defeat.
Joey Votto was 4 for 4 with a home run and a walk for the Reds, who led, 8-2, in the second inning and trailed, 9-8, in the fourth.
BREWERS 5, PIRATES 1 Brooks Conrad ended his 0-for-27 slump to start the season, hitting a homer and driving in three runs to lead host Milwaukee.
GIANTS 2, CUBS 1 Matt Cain (6-2) pitched into the ninth on the way to winning his fifth straight start for host San Francisco.
D'BACKS 4, PADRES 2 Daniel Hudson pitched eight strong innings, and Paul Goldschmidt homered for Arizona at San Diego.
MARINERS 10, WHITE SOX 8 Ichiro Suzuki homered twice, John Jaso hit a tiebreaking double in the 12th inning and Seattle ended host Chicago's nine-game winning streak.
Dayan Viciedo of the White Sox tied the game, 8-8, with a two-out solo homer in the eighth -- the eighth home run of the game, with four by each team.
RED SOX 7, BLUE JAYS 4 Second baseman Nick Punto, filling in for the injured Dustin Pedroia, drove in two runs and had three hits, including his first home run, to lead visiting Boston to its 10th victory in 14 games.
Felix Doubront (6-2) allowed three runs, two earned, in six and a third innings, improving to 5-1 with a 2.72 earned run average in his past five starts.
A'S 9, ROYALS 3 Brandon McCarthy (4-3) came off the disabled list to throw six innings, Jemile Weeks reached base four times and Josh Reddick had a two-run triple as visiting Oakland ended a nine-game losing streak.
ORIOLES 2, RAYS 1 Brian Matusz (5-5) held host Tampa Bay to two hits in seven and a third innings, and Baltimore ended a six-game losing streak. The Orioles' Endy Chavez hit his first home run since last Aug. 9.
TWINS 7, INDIANS 4 Joe Mauer ended an 0-for-10 skid with three hits and three runs batted in, two on a homer, for Minnesota at Cleveland.
SANDOVAL INVESTIGATED The Santa Cruz County, Calif., Sheriff's Department is investigating the San Francisco Giants slugger Pablo Sandoval in a sexual assault case. Deputy Sheriff April Skalland said the investigation was continuing.
''No charges have been filed,'' Skalland said. ''He was not arrested. He was not detained.''
Sandoval's lawyer said his client had met with the Sheriff's Department to discuss a sexual relationship that the lawyer said was consensual.
CONTRERAS SERIOUSLY INJURED Phillies reliever Jose Contreras, 40, tore a ligament and a tendon in his right elbow while pitching on Friday and will probably miss the rest of the season. ... Twins pitcher Carl Pavano will return to Minneapolis on Sunday to have a magnetic resonance imaging test on his sore right shoulder.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Strasburg of the Washington Nationals won his third straight start and lowered his earned run average to 2.35. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (77%); NEW YORK METS (58%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (51%) GEORGIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); OHIO, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



98 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: A Steel Town's Chronicler And Conscience

BYLINE: By JOHN ANDERSON

 BODY:
HAVING grown up in the steel-mill town of Braddock, Pa., during the Berlin Wall crisis, the Suez crisis and the Cuban missile crisis, the filmmaker-to-be Tony Buba was suffering from ''existential fatalism'' by the end of high school. ''I thought I'd be dead by 21,'' Mr. Buba recalled. He joined the National Guard. He got a job in a mill. ''Then, suddenly, I'm 24, working on an assembly line and thinking, 'Jeez, I'm not dead yet.' '' So he took money he had saved to buy a Corvette and went to college.
From there an outsider film career was born, one that ignored Hollywood and instead concentrated on his blue-collar hometown, and a body of work that will be celebrated beginning Friday at Anthology Film Archives in New York with Tony Buba: The Bard of Braddock. The series will showcase documentary features, shorts and one bona fide fiction film. 
To differentiate between genres, however, is to miss the point: celebrated for chronicling the life and death of Braddock, and by extension the economic infrastructure of America, Mr. Buba (pronounced BOO-ba) was making experimental cinema long before the 21st-century ''hybrid doc'' was smelting narrative and nonfiction in pursuit of an alloy.
''It was sort of my own thing,'' Mr. Buba said. ''I wanted to do something accessible for people in Braddock, but which could also work on another level too, play in a museum space, for instance, and go back and forth.'' As an undergraduate he studied psychology, then went to Ohio University for film. ''Ohio was an interesting place at that time, 1970, '72.'' The chairman of the grad program was ''an unusual character: he basically accepted anyone with a funny-sounding name. He said, 'I just wanted to see what a Buba looked like.' ''
Mr. Buba's influences were typical. ''You don't steal, of course, you 'pay homage to,' '' he said, laughing. ''But I saw Godard and Bunuel, there was a Stan Brakhage period, Third World Newsreel, Black Panther films. And there was this explosion of 16 millimeter, which was 'the people's medium' at that time. And a lot of the motivation was politics. I wanted to make political documentaries.''
Which he did. His early shorts include ''Shutdown,'' a verite account of a 1975 independent truckers strike; the hallucinatory ''Mill Hunk Herald'' (1981), in which the story of a steelworkers' newspaper segues into an accordion-led version of ''Jumpin' Jack Flash,'' accompanied by a high school marching band; and ''Braddock Food Bank'' (1985), a sardonic silent that asks whether the money spent to make a documentary about poor people might be better spent on poor people.
''His work has no parallel in American cinema,'' said Jed Rapfogel, film programmer for Anthology. ''It's this incredible combination of very committed, serious political commitment, and this bizarre comic sensibility.'' He said Mr. Buba's work would feel like the ''wacky humorous wing'' of a healthy political film movement, if the United States had such a movement.
''In a perfect world there would be a sizable portion of American cinema with a deep interest in the lives of working people,'' Mr. Rapfogel said. ''Tony is making the sorts of films I wish other people were making, but he doesn't stint on the comedy, they're not overly earnest, they reflect his charismatic personality, and yet they're about things that are pretty tragic.'' (The Buba program is linked to Anthology's Sometimes Cities series, about neglected urban centers.)
The centerpiece of the retrospective, and perhaps Mr. Buba's oeuvre, is ''Lightning Over Braddock: A Rust Belt Fantasy,'' which is partly about the city's woes and partly about efforts to make a movie about a local street hustler, the real-life Sal Carulli, who had starred in Mr. Buba's earlier short ''Sweet Sal.'' The self-reflexive nature of Mr. Buba's work, its political savvy and technical sophistication -- continuing a soundtrack as the image changes, for instance, and the poetic use of working-class imagery -- make Mr. Buba ripe for rediscovery, as does the prescience of his movies: the foreshadowing of the Occupy and Tea Party movements seem unmistakable in ''Lightning Over Braddock,'' despite its place and time. In 1988 the critic J. Hoberman called it ''one of the few regional movies to successfully and unsentimentally peel off the national smile button.''
Mr. Buba is amused by the new relevance of his older films. ''They really address cyclical nature of capitalism,'' he said. ''I'll be 69 in October, but I'm not fading away.'' He credits the support of a Braddock-born activist and photographer, Latoya Ruby Frazier, who invited him to join her in a talk she gave during this year's Whitney Biennial, and with whom he's made other appearances. (''She's very generous in her praise of me,'' he said.) Both joined the unsuccessful fight against the closing of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center at Braddock, an issue that has distracted Mr. Buba from filmmaking, although he has put footage related to the protest on YouTube and hopes to complete a documentary on the topic, yet another work with Braddock at its core.
When the New York distributor Zeitgeist Films was starting out in 1988, one of the first films it acquired was ''Lightning Over Braddock.'' ''He'd made all these interesting short films,'' said the Zeitgeist co-president Nancy Gerstman, ''and people didn't do that sort of thing then -- staying in their hometowns and making films with so much local detail. It was a cool way of celebrating the place he grew up in, and the people he loved.''
He is also ''a pure documentarian,'' Ms. Gerstman said. ''There's not a lot of opinion. He accepts people for who they are and doesn't judge. And that's so typical of Tony.''
In ''Braddock Food Bank,'' a title inserted into the frame reads, ''Being a documentary filmmaker, I'm not used to making moral decisions.'' It's a statement characteristic of a filmmaker who combines acerbic wit with political conscience, class sympathy with ironic distance, and whose sensibility seems to have staying power. Recently Mr. Buba and ''Lightning Over Braddock'' were invited to the Brooklyn microcinema Light Industry, which Mr. Buba said reminded him of earlier independent cinemas, those ''run by old hippies.'' But the Light Industry people were young and made Mr. Buba feel optimistic about the fate of political cinema.
''It's strange,'' he said. ''You make this stuff and think it's going to be dated. I'm sort of amazed myself.''
Online Correction: June 1, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of one of Tony Buba's film subjects. His name is Sal Carulli, not Carollo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, scenes from Tony Buba's ''No Pets'' (1994) and ''Voices from a Steeltown'' (1983), both coming to Anthology Film Archives
Mr. Buba with a friend, Phyllis Greathouse, in Braddock, Pa. His childhood home is behind him on the left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRADDOCK FILMS
 JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TRUCK DRIVERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



99 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
What Kind of Victory?
To the Editor:
Re ''The Hunch, the Pounce and the Kill'' (May 27), which told of how a hedge fund manager and others outmaneuvered JPMorgan Chase in credit derivatives trading and emerged as winners as the bank lost billions. 
Certainly, the fund manager and others who took part in the winning trades are very intelligent and capable people, and are entitled under the rules of the game to the money they made. The problem is the game and the rules of the game.
As I see it, not one thing of value was created with this exchange of money. It won't help the country recover from its economic problems or re-establish itself in the world of business.
Is this the type of financial success that Alexander Hamilton really had in mind?
Michael Caciopoli
Palm Beach, Fla., May 27
The Fading of the Euro
To the Editor:
Re ''A Power Vacuum Is Choking the Euro Zone'' (Economic View, May 27), in which Tyler Cowen described how the euro may well become a failed experiment:
The column did an excellent job of warning that it may be too late for the currency zone. Something is clearly awry when a sovereign nation can borrow until it's almost bankrupt, then stimulate its economy -- that is, borrow more -- in order to grow out of its problem.
If the Germans, the Finns, the Dutch and those in the zone's other healthier economies fall for that argument, Russia has plenty of resort property in Siberia to sell them.
Better yet, just elect me to run the show and I'll anoint us all rich!
Stanley J. Dziedzic Jr.
Roswell, Ga., May 27
The writer, who is retired, was a managing director at Lehman Brothers from 1996 to 2005.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); WRITERS (73%); EURO ZONE (70%); RESORTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



100 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Let's (Not) Get Physicals

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL. 
A medical doctor and an environmental reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
FOR decades, scientific research has shown that annual physical exams -- and many of the screening tests that routinely accompany them -- are in many ways pointless or (worse) dangerous, because they can lead to unneeded procedures. The last few years have produced a steady stream of new evidence against the utility of popular tests:
Prostate specific antigen blood tests to detect prostate cancer? No longer recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force.
Routine EKGs? No use. 
Yearly Pap smears? Nope. (Every three years.)
So why do Americans, nearly alone on the planet, remain so devoted to the ritual physical exam and to all of these tests, and why do so many doctors continue to provide them? Indeed, the last decade has seen a boom in what hospitals and health care companies call ''executive physicals'' -- batteries of screening exams for apparently healthy people, purporting to ferret out hidden disease with the zeal of Homeland Security officers searching for terrorists.
In 1979, a Canadian government task force officially recommended giving up the standard head-to-toe annual physical based on studies showing it to be ''nonspecific,'' ''inefficient'' and ''potentially harmful,'' replacing it instead with a small number of periodic screening tests, which depend in part on a patient's risk factors for illness. Faced with such evidence, I have not gotten an annual physical since around the time I finished my medical training in 1989. I respect my doctors, but I see them only when I'm sick. I religiously follow schedules for the limited number of screening tests recommended for women my age -- like mammograms every two years and blood pressure checks -- but most of those do not require a special office visit.
''There's a lot of inertia and unwillingness to let things go -- it's hard for doctors and patients,'' said Allan S. Brett, professor of clinical internal medicine at the University of South Carolina, who tells well patients there is no need to see him annually. ''I've rolled back the frequency and intensity of screening over the years, absolutely. I'm not doing lots of things now, because there's no evidence that they help.''
There is, of course, economic impetus for American medicine's ''more is better'' mode -- at least when patients have insurance. In the United States, most doctors and hospitals profit more by doing more, and prices are particularly high for tests and scans. Also, we are one of the few countries where drug makers and hospitals advertise products and treatments directly to patients, creating demand from consumers who don't actually pay their full costs.
But there are sociological reasons for America's enthusiasm as well: an abundance of specialists, who are more likely to deploy tests and procedures, as well as malpractice fears, which leave hurried doctors inclined to order a test rather than explain why it is not necessary. And then there's habit, said Dr. Brett, who writes extensively on the scientific basis of medical practice, adding: ''If you ask gynecologists why they still do yearly Pap smears they'll say things like: Patients expect it; It keeps patients coming back; It's what we do in an OB-GYN visit.''
With health care costs spiraling out of control and insurance companies asking patients to pay a greater portion of bills, America may be poised to rethink its rituals. This year the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation joined forces with Consumer Reports to compile a list of basic medical tests and procedures that are often performed but that don't add value. The project -- called Choosing Wisely -- already has a list with dozens of entries, and more will be added in the fall.
''This is the right message from the right messengers -- not insurance companies and government, but doctors and patients,'' said Dr. Christine Cassel, president of the foundation. ''The issue of confronting waste in the American health care system has grown increasingly important. But when this issue comes up in the political arena it becomes about rationing and death panels.''
The United States spends about twice as much per person as other developed countries on health care, generally without better results. A 2009 study of waste in the United States health care system pointed to ''unwarranted use of medical care'' -- unneeded, unproven or redundant diagnosis or treatment -- as the biggest single component, accounting for $250 billion to $325 billion a year.
Ateev Mehrotra, an assistant professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, has estimated that unneeded blood tests during physical exams alone cost $325 million annually. The only routine blood test currently recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force is a cholesterol check every five years.
And the over-screening for some occurs in a country where 50 million people are uninsured and receive little medical attention. More than half of uninsured adults in the United States did not see a doctor in 2010. Fifty percent of Americans are not up to date with the few screening tests that are recommended -- like a colonoscopy once every 10 years for those over 50 -- because of high costs, said Karen Davis, president of the Commonwealth Fund.
Intensive screening can prove useless for a number of reasons, experts say: Tests can have high rates of ''false positives,'' signaling that there may be disease, when further tests and procedures reveal none. Likewise, they can screen for conditions where early detection does not alter the course of the disease, either because the body might heal itself or because there are no effective remedies. In either case they can lead to aggressive procedures to clarify the diagnosis or provide treatment, which themselves can be harmful.
In a report released last month, the Commonwealth Fund pointed to a heavy reliance on specialists in the United States as a central factor in driving up costs. Americans have far fewer doctor visits on average than patients in places like Japan and Denmark. But they see more specialists and get more tests.
Specialists are generally inclined to use the tools -- and newest toys -- of their trade. Surgeons operate. Radiologists conduct scans. Interventional cardiologists do angiograms and stent placements to hold open arteries. ''When you go to Midas you get a muffler,'' we said when I was in medical training.
''If you have back pain, maybe a primary care doctor says take a muscle relaxant and do these exercises,'' Ms. Davis said. ''But in the U.S. you might say 'my friend went to this doctor and had surgery and it's better.' So you make an appointment with a back surgeon but before you see the surgeon, you must have a scan. There's less of what doctors call 'watchful waiting.' ''
Many of the screening tests are developed, evaluated and then promoted by specialists and specialty societies -- and some prove unhelpful when more widely studied. Specialists are often the last to give up a procedure.
Dr. Brett estimated that 80 percent of urologists still believed the prostate specific antigen tests to be beneficial or worthwhile, compared to only 20 percent of primary care doctors. That test is no longer recommended by the Preventive Services Task Force because prostate cancer is most often an extremely slow growing disease that does not kill, while prostate cancer surgery comes with frequent complications, like incontinence.
''The last patient you saw can influence you more than the study of a huge population,'' said Dr. Cassel, an internist who was previously an official at several medical schools. ''Urologists see the people who have serious advanced prostate cancer, which is a devastating disease. And they have a tool -- surgery -- that addresses it. So they want to do it.''
DOCTORS emphasize that in moving away from aggressive screening, they are not endorsing less care for the ill or proscribing preventive care that is helpful. ''If you can afford it, there's a tendency to say 'why not?' '' said Dr. Cassel. ''Well, there are a lot of reasons: CT scans are very high radiation. Every test comes up with little incidental findings. So you have a cardiac stress test and that will lead to catheterization, which has risks, and it turns up just a normal variant. There's a therapeutic cascade that follows each test.''
A recent study in the Annals of Emergency Medicine found that 10 percent of Americans get CT scans each year and that the use of CT scans in emergency departments has increased sixfold in little over a decade. The Choosing Wisely program recommends against the common practice of conducting X-rays or scans on patients with simple back pain that is less than six weeks old. Virtually all people over 50 will have abnormalities on such tests, and most back pain gets better without surgery.
Consciously or subconsciously, experts say, commercial interests foster unneeded tests. Studies show that doctors who invest in radiology machines are more likely to order X-rays, for example.
As of today, only a few screening tests are recommended as useful for healthy, asymptomatic people by the Preventive Services Task Force and some of those -- like blood pressure checks -- don't require a doctor visit and could be performed in a pharmacy. ''If you follow their recommendations you hardly do anything to patients,'' said Dr. Brett, adding that the most important intervention doctors perform on healthy patients may be counseling about habits. For new patients, he still does the full head-to-toe medical exam -- though he does not routinely order blood work -- and regards some parts as more or less playacting.
Doctors have become accustomed to performing this ritual in years of training, and ''patients come to expect it,'' Dr. Cassel said.
''Patients say, 'hey, why didn't I get my CXR?' So many docs say O.K., and order one. You don't really need all those tests and probably most of the physical exam.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of a professor of clinical internal medicine at the University of South Carolina. He is Allan S. Brett, not Alan. The article also paraphrased incorrectly from a comment by Dr. Brett. He estimated that 80 percent of urologists still believed prostate specific antigen tests to be beneficial or worthwhile, compared to only 20 percent of primary doctors -- not that 80 percent of urologists still ordered the tests. The article also misspelled the surname of the president of the American Board of Internal Medicine and the ABIM Foundation. She is Christine K. Cassel, not Cassell.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PING ZHU) (SR1
SR8)
CHART: 10 Tasks to Jettison: A sampling of routine screening tests and medical procedures that research has suggested are unnecessary. (Sources: American Board of Internal Medicine
National Physicians Alliance
 Consumer Reports) (SR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); CANCER (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (74%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); TERRORISM (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



101 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn's Gold Rush

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
DEVELOPERS in New York City have had a lot of success luring buyers to high-end apartments with the latest dazzling amenity. Heat reflexology flooring, anyone?
But the feature still most likely to draw people is not something new and shiny but old and reliable: good bones. Many buyers re-entering the real estate market after years on the sidelines are discovering what they're after in brownstone Brooklyn. In neighborhoods including Fort Greene, Park Slope, Boerum Hill and Red Hook, brokers are besieged by buyers.
''It is amazing,'' said Jill Seligson Braver, an associate broker at Brown Harris Stevens. ''It is a level of activity I have not seen since 2006-2007. There are so many people looking for brownstone buildings, and there is just no supply.''
Ms. Braver said that when it comes to brownstones, good bones can mean many things: striking period details, ornate moldings, gracious floor plans. But always, they offer a sense of solidity. ''Brownstones signify stability,'' she said. ''Putting roots down in a neighborhood for the long haul.'' 
It is not uncommon for dozens of people to jam open houses or for bidding wars to leave the listing price in the dust. With so few single-family homes available, buyers have also been eagerly snatching up two- and three-family homes with the goal of converting them to single-family residences.
One of Ms. Braver's clients, Phil Gennaway, bought a brownstone in Carroll Gardens in 1974 for $50,000. For four decades, the three-story multifamily home has done its duty -- serving for a time as a home for Mr. Gennaway and his wife and later as a dependable source of rental income when the couple moved out of the city.
But after incurring some unexpected medical expenses last year, Mr. Gennaway decided that it was time to cash out. He was advised to wait until spring, and on April 30 he listed the building for $1.6 million.
Mr. Gennaway, who has spent many years appraising property values in the city, was surprised by what happened next.
After three group showings and less than one week on the market, he received nine bids -- at which point his broker stopped taking offers.
The building is in contract for an amount higher than the asking price. Mr. Gennaway would not reveal the sales price before the deal closed.
Even though the most desirable neighborhoods in Brooklyn were never hit as hard by the recession as less established areas, the current frenzy in the brownstone market is more a reflection of the continuing demand for large spaces.
Jonathan J. Miller, who analyzes market data for Prudential Douglas Elliman, broke down the data on sales of one-, two- and three-family homes and found that prices in northwest Brooklyn were up significantly from this time last year.
In Park Slope by the end of April, the median sales price had jumped nearly 20 percent over the same period last year, to $1.45 million from $1.2 million. The number of sales in the neighborhood is also up: 158 this year compared with 132 last year.
The biggest price increases have been in Boerum Hill -- up 60 percent, to $1.7 million from $1.1 million -- and Red Hook -- up 73 percent, to $825,000 from $475,000, although it is a small neighborhood and only a handful of properties were on the market. In some cases, homes are selling for more than what they might have brought in the heady days of 2007.
Even when the most expensive sales are removed from the calculations, Mr. Miller said, the surge in prices in striking.
''The theory was that when the credit crunch hit, you would see home sizes get smaller,'' he said, ''and that is not what happened in New York.'' Across the city, he added, space is king.
The spiraling prices are being driven, in part, by the lack of supply. Despite the rising demand, no one is building new brownstones. The number of town houses on the market this spring is about the same as it was a year ago.
Banks, still applying much stricter lending standards than in the boom years, have also been slightly more accommodating. Mortgage interest rates are still at record lows, and with prices rising, some buyers who had been on the sidelines waiting for the market to bottom out are taking the plunge.
''There is a lot of money out there,'' said Trish Martin, the director of sales in Brooklyn for Halstead Property. But people are cautious, looking to invest in areas that held their value even when times were tough. ''We would love to point people to other burgeoning neighborhoods,'' she said, ''but people have it set in their head that they want a specific neighborhood.''
Mr. Miller says prices are rising the fastest in ''core'' neighborhoods -- the ones that did not see much fluctuation when the economic climate changed.Right now, within those neighborhoods, the greatest demand is for the small clusters of brownstone blocks. Despite the robust spring sales of large homes, studio and one-bedroom apartments in northwest Brooklyn have not proved as resilient, with prices still off from their peak levels.
Rising rents are also driving more people into the sales market. In April, the average rent in Park Slope was up 33 percent from the previous spring, according to a survey by MNS Realty.
In the past, the people hunting for brownstones were often Manhattanites looking for more affordable space across the East River. While such people are still coming to Brooklyn, brokers say, buyers are just as likely to be longtime Brooklyn residents hoping to get out of the rental market or move up the property ladder. Brokers are also seeing an increasing number of new arrivals to New York looking exclusively in Brooklyn.
''A lot of it has to do with the continuing and increasing popularity of the neighborhoods,'' said Leslie Marshall, a senior vice president of Corcoran. ''You can't open papers without reading about some style trend that started in Brooklyn or some new restaurant that everyone is talking about. It has been infectious.''
Real estate obsessives have taken note as young Hollywood stars like Maggie Gyllenhaal and Anne Hathaway colonized Brooklyn. With all this buzz, the idea of the borough as consolation for those priced out of Manhattan seems thoroughly passe.
Neely Cather, who just listed her Brooklyn Heights brownstone for $3.65 million, is one of those who were drawn to Brooklyn because they wanted a different vibe than the one they found in Manhattan -- less rushed, with the feel of a village, but still urban.
''It is just very difficult to find this kind of neighborhood, where you know everyone on the street,'' Ms. Cather said. She described her neighbors as an ''open, educated, cultured group.''
The building is being shown by appointment through her broker, Ms. Marshall, at Corcoran. The interest has been intense, she said. Both Manhattanites and Brooklynites have inquired about the property. Ms. Cather said the actress Mary-Louise Parker had stopped by on her house hunt.
The Cathers, who plan to spend time at their place upstate, are not leaving Brooklyn entirely. They bought a condominium nearby at One Brooklyn Bridge Park.
The idea was to have ''city living when we are in the city,'' she said, and to stay in the neighborhood they love.
Kwadwo Boachie-Adjei, an epidemiologist at Beth Israel Medical Center, is similarly committed to Brooklyn.
He moved to New York from Boston after he had finished graduate school in 2003. At that point, he said, he ''joined the long list of renters.'' He resolved to save money, search for the right neighborhood and buy something as soon as he could afford it.
''But then the prices skyrocketed,'' he said.
He was living in Fort Greene in 2005, and his rent kept rising along with home prices so, despite the risk, he decided to buy a place. As the market neared its peak late that year, he paid $900,000 for a three-family brownstone at 411 Classon Avenue. He lived in the building and rented out two other apartments, but did little in the way of renovations. He is now putting the place on the market for $1.5 million.
The price increase, he believes, has been made possible by all that has developed around the building.
''Over the years, the neighborhood has changed so drastically,'' he said. ''There are condos being built around the block, and there are now four restaurants on opposite corners, which you see as soon as you walk out of the building.''
As a landlord, he finds tenants often ask him about buying in the neighborhood. Unfortunately, he said, many are frustrated because there is simply so little inventory.
Mr. Boachie-Adjei, gaining confidence after his first purchase, bought another brownstone nearby several years ago for $1.16 million. Unable to secure financing for renovations at the time, he had to let the house sit vacant until he could get the money together.
In a reflection of how strong the market is today, even after some very rough years, his new brownstone -- work completed -- was recently appraised at $2.5 million. All things considered, he said, it was a very good investment.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart last Sunday with an article about rising prices for town houses in brownstone Brooklyn misstated the listing and sales prices for a house at 124 Park Place in Park Slope. It was listed at $2,700,000, not $1,270,000; and it sold for $2,910,000, not $1,291,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COBBLE HILL: 214 Kane Street LISTING PRICE: $1,875,000 IN CONTRACT: $2,600,000
PARK SLOPE: 178 Garfield Place LISTING PRICE: $3,750,000 SALE PRICE: $4,000,000
PARK SLOPE: 124 Park Place LISTING PRICE: $1,270,000 SALE PRICE: $1,291,000 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
 MARKETERS: The Cather family outside the Brooklyn Heights brownstone they have listed for $3.65 million. From left, Neely, Denali, Nile and Todd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) MAP: Market Surge: Neighborhoods across northwest Brooklyn have seen a significant uptick in median sales prices for one- to three-family homes. The numbers represent the percentage prices have increased from April 2011 to April 2012. (Source: Jonathan J. Miller, Miller Samuels) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (73%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (57%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



102 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2718 words

HEADLINE: Full Steam On the Mississippi

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER. 
NEIL GENZLINGER is a television critic at The New York Times.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
FEW who survived it -- and, in truth, we all survived it -- will soon forget the Great Yazoo Steamboat Wreck of 2012. For one thing, it seemed briefly as if it might disrupt our 5 p.m. dinner seating, which would have raised a howl loud enough to send a hog to church. For another, it was the most exciting thing that happened during our pleasantly lazy six days on the American Queen, a grand steamboat that made a much anticipated return to river cruising this spring after several years at rest.
But I'll tell more about the wreck by and by. Let's have this odyssey of history, economics and gastro-economics start where it begins, in New Orleans, city of the curious and the wicked. 
Many in that town took time out from their curious wickedness on a Thursday in April to come down to the waterfront and get an eyeful of the American Queen as it sat alongside the Riverwalk Marketplace preparing for its first paying passengers in four years. Anyone who says he wouldn't want to pass a few minutes staring at the American Queen is either a liar or cross-eyed. It's the biggest steamboat ever built, people who know about such things swear, and when it's floating on the Mississippi, one of the biggest rivers ever built, something just feels right about the world.
Most sources list the boat at 418 feet long. A few say 419. Me, I've presided over enough laundry mishaps to know that where there's water there's shrinkage, and I own enough sponges to know that where there's water there's also expansion, so I believe that the length of the American Queen depends on when you measure it. For the purposes of this tale, just accept that it is a very large boat and that fish from Minnesota to Louisiana warn their grandchildren about the formidable red paddle wheel on the back.
The American Queen's history has been short but eventful, and lovers of the gentle, genteel pastime of steamboat cruising have been watching to see if that history would have any new chapters. The boat, built in 1995 by the Delta Queen Steamboat Company, had some fine years on the Mississippi and elsewhere. But no craft made can outrun hard times, and in 2008 the Majestic America Line, which had come to own the American Queen, faltered.
The United States Maritime Administration held the mortgage and took custody, but apparently nobody in any of the three branches of government knew what to do with an unarmed luxury steamboat, so the American Queen got a few years of forced retirement. But certain people were being driven slowly crazy by the knowledge that a perfectly good steamboat was sitting idle. In 2011 a few of them, including some from the ferry operator HMS Global Maritime, formed the Great American Steamboat Company to acquire the American Queen and put it back on the water.
And so the boat made its way to New Orleans that April Thursday, and the next afternoon I and more than 420 other passengers boarded for its inaugural cruise, a six-night trip to Vicksburg, Miss., and back. (Two weeks later in Memphis, the boat's home port, Priscilla Presley put a bottle of Champagne to death in a formal rechristening.) We set off on a Friday the 13th and just hours before the 100th anniversary of the Titanic's encounter with that iceberg, but there was no time to ponder omens, because almost immediately we were called upon to do what steamboaters do best and most frequently: eat.
THE American Queen has a large formal dining room, and dinner was served each evening in two seatings, at 5 and 8. Regina Charboneau, who is known for the Biscuits & Blues club in San Francisco but lives in Natchez, Miss., supervised the menus, which that first night included pompano en papillote and quail in a pepper crust. The service in the dining room was sometimes a little rocky, since the staff was green and more or less learning on the job, but the food was better than food on a boat has a right to be. Even though my ticket cost $2,584, the dessert on our second night, a vanilla cheesecake with blackberry sauce, convinced me that I hadn't paid nearly enough.
Steamboating is one of the most sedentary vacations a body can sign up for. The American Queen barely pays lip service to the idea of onboard exercise, with only a small gym and a runt of a pool (not filled on my trip) that in another century might have been mistaken for a spittoon. There are activities on the boat, but they're of the sit-and-listen variety: talks about steamboat history or 19th-century dueling, a performance by a Mark Twain imitator, evening piano-bar sessions. A lot of listening and a lot of eating.
Anyone who didn't feel sufficiently stuffed by what was being served in the dining room could eat in the open air at the River Grill, on a rear deck overlooking that paddle wheel. At the other end of the boat, a little feet-up spot called the Front Porch of America had snacks and hot dogs all day, as well as a self-serve cappuccino machine that worked fine, except when it didn't.
So anyone who didn't gain 15 pounds on this trip wasn't trying. We needed to be well fed, because it turns out we all had a job to do: single-handedly resuscitate the economies of the towns we stopped at along the way.
At least so it seemed, because these people were awfully glad to see us. Generally, the boat traveled at night, and we'd wake up in a new port of call, where we'd be free to go ashore. At Oak Alley Plantation, our first stop, about 50 miles upriver from New Orleans, two young women in full-gown regalia, including parasols, stood at the plantation entrance for our picture-taking benefit. In St. Francisville, La., the next morning, locals handed us carryalls as we left the boat (''St. Francisville: Soothing to the Soul,'' was inscribed on them), and the streets were decorated as if dignitaries were expected. In Natchez on Monday morning, a high school band greeted our arrival despite the threat of rain. The Vicksburg Post favored us with a Page 1 photograph under the headline ''Welcome Back, M'Lady.'' At Houmas House, our final stop, 60 people were on shore to give a welcome, and a woman in a vintage gown serenaded us with a lovely ''Summertime.''
I hoped that none of the restaurants in these towns were expecting a windfall as we waddled through, because Ms. Charboneau's breakfasts had left our corsets rather tight. I did make a small contribution to a culinary enterprise in St. Francisville, buying a glass of lemonade from a young girl with a sidewalk stand on Ferdinand Street. The competition in this particular business was fierce: my girl was asking 25 cents; another stand near a shop on Royal Street called Grandmother's Buttons (which sells, yes, buttons) wanted 50. I made the obvious choice but followed it up with a less intelligent one; the 25-cent girl somehow inspired me to give her a 25-cent tip. This little transaction, for me, came to symbolize the theme of the trip: It was a seven-day, six-night lesson in the cyclical nature of economics.
The steamboat itself has been through a few cycles since John Fitch first operated a primitive one on the Delaware River in 1787. I learned this by spending several informative hours with Mary Charlton and Travis C. Vasconcelos, two experts in river lore (''riverlorians,'' in the boat's parlance) who were onboard for the trip and could often be found in the chart room in the front of the boat talking history and navigation. Originally steamboats weren't the opulent creatures we picture today. They were cargo vessels, stripped down for maximum speed, since quick delivery, especially for livestock or produce, was vital.
''People were an afterthought,'' Ms. Charlton told me during one chat. But then railroads came along, making steamboats an also-ran in the cargo-moving race. Increasingly, steamboats catered to passengers, with onboard entertainments and such. Fares varied just like on oceangoing ships of the day (and, Ms. Charlton said, you could also work onboard in exchange for passage), making steamboating a relatively inexpensive way for just about anybody to experience something resembling luxury, and for immigrants to move across the country.
The American Queen, too, has had assorted incarnations, as Mr. Vasconcelos recounted one morning in a talk he gave in the boat's Grand Saloon, a modest theater where something always seemed to be going on. Several different owners tried several different themes in the years after the launching in 1995. There was a party-boat phase, he said, and an attempt to market to families, neither of which was successful.
The new owners have returned to the traditional steamboating audience, a crowd with a lot of gray hair and no interest in the parasailing and snorkeling you find offered on Caribbean cruises. (The staff, to its credit, was very attentive to mobility issues, essential at several stops where dauntingly high levees might have been insurmountable for some passengers otherwise.) On our trip, the nightly song-and-dance shows in the Grand Saloon were of a type generally introduced with the phrase ''Remember when.'' One afternoon a thrill went through the Chart Room when all present realized that a passing barge was pushing shipping containers in a six-wide, five-long alignment, a shocking departure from the longer-than-wide norm. Well-fed people, it appears, are easily amused people.
Steamboat history, of course, is only a small part of a bigger story. Traveling through this piece of the country brings constant reminders of economic systems that once were, and of the continuing struggle to replace them and repair the damage they caused.
All along the way, historic mansions cry out to be toured: at Oak Alley, with the glorious trees that give it that name; at Natchez, with stunners like Melrose and Rosalie; in Darrow, La., where the gardens of Houmas House put anything you might have in your yard to shame.
In the years before the Civil War, historians tell us, plantation wealth made this part of the Mississippi home to perhaps two-thirds of the country's millionaires. And so you can view these buildings in a number of ways, all of which are correct. They are well-kept examples of various styles of architecture. They are remnants of a golden era of lavish parties and lovely gowns. They are white elephants whose only real practical uses today are as tourist attractions and movie sets. They are enduring reminders of an economy that was built on the ownership of human beings.
The Civil War of course shattered that economy, but there are still working plantations along the river. One of the more enjoyable tours we American Queen passengers could sign up for was of Frogmore, a working cotton plantation near Natchez where the owners, Buddy and Lynette Tanner, make sure visitors know the past as well as the heavily mechanized and computerized present. In preserved slave quarters and a historic church, Ms. Tanner gives an affecting account of how life was lived during slavery and in the sharecropper era that followed it.
BUT cotton, sugar and tobacco don't rule this corridor as they once did, and so our route also allowed us to observe (and participate in) the many and fitful attempts to replace them with an incongruous combination of history tourism, swamp chic and gambling.
There is a riverboat casino at Natchez and another at Vicksburg, which also has some land-based gaming parlors. (No gambling on the American Queen, by the way; bridge and cribbage were the games of choice in its card room.) As for the current mania for backwoods experiences, at our Oak Alley stop some of us took a boat tour of the Manchac Swamp with a colorful fellow named Tom Billiot, who summoned the world's least threatening alligators by throwing marshmallows into the water and dangling meat from a hook.
Those indolent alligators were about as exciting as my trip got, until the aforementioned Great Yazoo Steamboat Wreck. It happened at Vicksburg, which used to be on the Mississippi until the fickle river changed course in 1876 and left the city with no port. In 1903 the Army Corps of Engineers, hoping to restore Vicksburg's water economy, diverted the Yazoo River so that a piece of it now goes by the city.
And so on Tuesday morning we pulled into the Yazoo River Diversion Canal to make our Vicksburg stop. The thing is, the waterway isn't wide enough to allow a boat the size of the American Queen to turn around, so the only way to leave Vicksburg that afternoon was to back out. It had been a monsoonlike day, and strong winds can shove a flat-bottom boat like the American Queen around a bit. To make the backing maneuver even more difficult, a hulking vessel named the Miss Kathy was coming in as we were trying to go out, so we had to pull to the Louisiana shore to let it pass.
The upshot is that as we were retaking the channel, we brushed up against a stationary barge. A few molecules of paint from the side of our boat may have been lost in the collision; the barge, a rusty mess, could only have been improved by the contact. But maritime rules being what they are, the Coast Guard had to be called to make a report.
Among the passengers who congregated on deck to peer down at the scrape, there was considerable consternation that this would somehow interfere with dinner, a significant concern as this was lobster tail night. But the dining room opened on schedule, and about the same time, the Coast Guard boat pulled up alongside us.
As far as I could see, none of the officers who came aboard actually inspected the spot where boat and barge had clinked together. They did, however, disappear from view for roughly as long as it would take to consume the hind end of a lobster. I'm just saying.
Diversions, Excursions and Cabins
Those used to seeing advertisements for ridiculously inexpensive oceangoing vacations (''Cruises from $179!'') may be startled by the American Queen (888-749-5280; greatamericansteamboatcompany.com) price list. Steamboating isn't cheap.
Prices for a nine-day cruise from New Orleans to Memphis later this month start at $1,995 a person for double occupancy in an interior cabin and top out at $5,795 a person in a suite with a river view. The boat isn't really designed for passengers traveling alone, though there are a few single-occupancy interior cabins. Mine was the size of a modest walk-in closet and was across from the laundry room, which once needed noisy emergency repairs at 2 a.m. Prices discourage going solo as well; for that Memphis cruise, the cost for a single cabin is $2,995.
Your ticket buys all your meals (and, at dinner, wine), as well as access to the goings-on in the Grand Saloon, where there are nightly shows and, in the daytime, informative lectures like the one Regina Charboneau, the boat's culinary director, gave on biscuit-making. (''The key to my biscuits is not overmixing.'')
Some of the best entertainment is in simply watching a steamboat do what a steamboat does. The engine room is open for touring almost anytime. There's a pleasing grandeur in watching the boat's imposing smokestacks fold down when a low bridge is ahead. And it's amazing to see a boat this size pull right up to a sandy bank; it draws only eight feet, so deep water is not required.
At each stop, the cruise line sets up a free hop-in/hop-off bus circuit to take guests to nearby towns or attractions, some of which grant free admission to passengers from the boat. But for an additional fee -- $49 was typical -- the more adventurous can take a variety of ''premium tours,'' which on my trip included a ride through an alligator-filled swamp and a visit to the once-notorious Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola (which now promotes itself as a model penal institution).
The American Queen has cruises scheduled through the end of the year on the Upper and Lower Mississippi as well as the Ohio and Tennessee. Many have themes: ''Music of the 1960s,'' ''Epic Civil War,'' ''Old-Fashioned Holidays.'' They range from three nights to 10.
Correction: June 3, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Page 7 this weekend with the continuation of the cover article, about a trip on the Mississippi aboard the American Queen, refers incorrectly to the paddle wheel shown. It is the paddle wheel of the American Queen, not of the African Queen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The American Queen steamboat on its inaugural cruise out of New Orleans. The six-day cruise stopped at historic sites along the Mississippi, to Vicksburg and back to New Orleans. (TR1)
FROM LEFT: Regina Charboneau gives a biscuit demonstration
Ms. Charboneau's poached eggs and bacon
Summer Troth of St. Francisville, La., young businesswoman
Rose Temple, a tour guide at the Longwood antebellum mansion in Natchez, a stop on the trip.
 LEFT: The American Queen pulls out of Natchez. ABOVE: The paddle wheel of the African Queen, the biggest steamboat ever built. BELOW LEFT: From the shore, watching the boat cruise by. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KITRA CAHANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6-TR7) MAP (TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (75%); FERRIES (72%); BOAT BUILDING (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA QUEEN STEAMBOAT CO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



103 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Billions, But It Can Help Rescue an Artist

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY

 BODY:
WHERE'S my bailout?
Many Americans -- the out of work, the underwater, the plain fed up -- have been asking that question since big banks and automakers received all those taxpayer-financed rescues in 2008.
But it turns out that a number of small, private rescue funds have been lending a hand to a group that is definitely not in the too-big-to-fail camp: writers, artists and other creative types. Think of these funds as sort of a TARP for the arts crowd, only with much smaller dollar figures, and with little or no help from Washington. Consider the story of George Handy, a potter in Asheville, N.C. He didn't know how he would get by financially after a Honda minivan barreled into his wood-walled studio on an October evening in 2008, about the time of Wall Street's bailout. His work was destroyed, his livelihood imperiled.
''I could have been picking glass out of my eyes with all the windows that shattered,'' Mr. Handy said. ''My file cabinet was smashed. Pots worth $1,000 apiece were gone.'' 
Fortunately, Mr. Handy, 57, who has made his living as a potter since college, had bought home insurance for the first time a month earlier. But one claims agent dismissed his lost work as ''a handful of clay,'' Mr. Handy said, though the insurer would eventually give him just more than $37,000.
Friends and neighbors lent a hand, but then more financial aid came from CERF+, the Craft Emergency Relief Fund, which helps artists in need with grants and long-term interest-free loans. CERF+ gave him $4,500 in all: a $3,150 loan and a $1,350 grant. That, in addition to what he received from the insurance claim, was enough to see him through.
A run of bad luck -- a car accident, an illness, the loss of a job by a spouse or partner -- can mean financial disaster for many artists, who are often self-employed. And their numbers are huge: almost two million artists of various types are in the labor force, according to the National Endowment for the Arts.
Unlike financial companies and automakers, which received a combined $700 billion from Washington in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, most artists don't qualify for any bailouts. Personal savings, insurance, a generous relative or an emergency grant is often all that stands between them and financial ruin.
''A lot of artists fall between the cracks, between FEMA and the Small Business Administration,'' says Cornelia Carey, executive director of CERF+. The group has been working since 2006 with state, regional and federal agencies and foundations to help creative workers survive personal financial crises and to plan for possible disasters like hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or medical emergencies.
Many can't afford such preparations themselves. ''They're both high-need and very vulnerable,'' Ms. Carey said. ''They often have a low and erratic income, sporadic employment and most are not big enough to access a loan from the Small Business Administration. Preparedness is kind of the last thing that gets done.''
ANDY NULMAN, president of Just for Laughs, the annual comedy festival based in Montreal, expressed similar sentiments.
''An artist's brain is just a different head space,'' Mr. Nulman said. ''They don't necessarily plan for tomorrow. An artist is a dreamer. The next hit might be right around the corner.''
Mr. Nulman has worked with comedians from around the world, including Mike MacDonald, a Canadian who is now living with his mother in Ottawa, while awaiting a liver transplant. Mr. MacDonald, 57, recently toured in British Columbia, netting $5,000, a small fraction of the income of his best years, which was as much as $22,000 a month.
''I did 28 shows in 31 days playing really small venues,'' Mr. MacDonald said of his recent tour. ''Talk about the economic crunch.'' Weakened by his illness, he spent four days in the hospital during the tour.
Now too sick to work, his retirement savings gone and hoping to net $50,000 from the sale of his suburban Los Angeles home, he recently pleaded his case on the Internet -- on GoFundMe.com, a donations site. Within three days, he had raised more than $26,000.
''It's amazing. I've never seen this,'' said Howard Lapides, his manager of 30 years.
Mr. MacDonald, at least, can live with his mother and, because of Canada's government-run health care system, faces no continuing medical bills. Chrystle Fiedler, 54, a freelance writer in Greenport, N.Y., is not so fortunate.
Ms. Fiedler, who is single and lives alone, was injured in an accident in a grocery in 2010. A distracted store employee bumped into her cheek so hard that she almost fainted from the pain, she said. Her condition was diagnosed as atypical trigeminal neuralgia, a rare disorder of a cranial nerve. She takes powerful painkillers 10 times a day.
Earning a living has become extremely difficult, she said: ''I can work for an hour, and then I need to rest. The pain is unmanageable if I talk too much or read too much or write too much.''
Ms. Fielder applied to the Writers Emergency Assistance Fund, which gave her $4,250. (Disclosure: this reporter serves on the fund's volunteer board.) In October 2011, Ms. Fielder also began receiving $1,800 a month for six months from the Haven Foundation, started in 2006 by Stephen King.
Mr. King was almost killed on June 20, 1999, while walking in North Lovell, Me., near his summer home. A minivan traveling at 45 miles an hour hit him, shattering his right hip, leg and knee. He couldn't work for 10 months and needed medical treatment for several years.
''The majority of midlist writers, audio readers and freelancers in the book and publishing industry have little or no financial cushion in the event of a sudden catastrophic accident,'' Mr. King wrote on the foundation's Web site. ''Many aren't affiliated with any professional associations or guilds that can help them in the event of such reversals.''
Charles Mayer, president of the Mayer Foundation, said by e-mail that his group is a small private foundation that tries to disburse grants totaling $50,000 to $75,000 a year. ''We receive hundreds of requests,'' he adds, ''and funds are quickly depleted.''
The Authors League Fund, which is affiliated with the New York-based Authors Guild, has been giving grants to writers since 1917, with a vast majority receiving ''anywhere from a few hundred dollars to several thousand,'' says Isabel Howe, executive director of the fund. It receives 100 to 200 applications a year, which is significantly more than before 2007, she said.
''We do go case by case,'' she said, ''but the fund is most supportive of older writers who are unable to continue publishing or earning an income from writing.''
Sometimes, help comes from surprising places. Borders, the bookstore chain, went into bankruptcy and closed in September 2011. But its former employees, like Brian Blueskye, who worked for Borders for six years, can still apply to the Borders foundation for emergency financial aid. Mr. Blueskye, who was a bookseller, was laid off permanently in September 2011. That November, he fell at home and broke a bone in his back. He could not afford health insurance under the federal Cobra program on his unemployment benefits of $700 a month.
''It was very depressing, but I did feel very touched they helped me out,'' Mr. Blueskye said of the foundation. ''The fact they come to your aid when you need it is pretty remarkable.''
Mr. Blueskye, who is single and lives with a roommate rent-free in Desert Hot Springs, Calif., spent three and a half months wearing a back brace and needed follow-up care, at a total cost of about $2,400, which the foundation paid.
Created in 1996, the group, now called the Book Industry Charitable Foundation and offering aid to any bookselling retail employee, is financed by donations from former Borders workers -- from those who made minimum wage to senior management. At its peak, Borders employed 32,000 and, before it went out of business, the foundation gave a total of $5 million to 4,600 employees facing a qualifying event like a natural disaster, a death in the family or domestic violence, says Pamela French, the fund's executive director.
In 2009, the foundation added two new criteria for applicants: utility shut-off and imminent homelessness. ''People are right on the edge,'' Ms. French said. ''That shut-off notice is for bills of $1,000 or less. Even a bill that's over $100 could really put some people at risk of losing their home or having their heat shut off.''
High medical expenses prompt most applications, she said. The foundation still has $4.1 million to offer, and its grants averaged $1,530 last year.
SELF-EMPLOYED artists, whatever their specific field or previous level of financial success, cannot collect unemployment benefits and often face restricted access to traditional forms of capital, like bank loans or lines of credit. And their contributions to the nation's economic life are sometimes dismissed.
Yet a 2008 study by the National Endowment for the Arts, called ''Artists in the Workplace,'' found that artists, athletes and museums contributed $70.9 billion to the economy annually. Artists are twice as likely as other American workers to be college-educated and 3.5 times as likely to be self-employed. No matter how successful they've been, many creative people can run into financial trouble if their work falls out of favor, if they lose clients, if arts budgets wither or if they have a health crisis.
''It's the nature of the business,'' says Mr. Nulman at Just for Laughs. ''No performer ever wants to think they're finished. I see these cases and, like all of us, say, 'There but for the grace of God go I.' ''
Correction: June 10, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified the area in Maine where Stephen King, the author and founder of the Haven Foundation, was struck by a minivan in 1999. The accident was in North Lovell, not Lowell.
Correction: June 17, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on June 3 about rescue funds for artists misidentified a group that provides financial aid to individuals and referred incorrectly to its aid amounts and to its president. It is the Mayer Foundation, not the Haven Foundation, that aims to disburse grants totaling $50,000 to $75,000 a year. (The Haven Foundation also provides such grants, in amounts up to $25,000 per applicant.) And Charles Mayer is president of the Mayer Foundation, not a spokesman for the Haven Foundation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Small, private funds are assisting artists, musicians and others who have suffered misfortunes. After a minivan barreled into his studio in 2008, George Handy of Asheville, N.C., received such aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
After he was laid off from Borders bookstores last year, Brian Blueskye of Desert Hot Springs, Calif., fell and broke a bone in his back. A foundation funded by former employees of the chain came to his aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Injured in a grocery-store accident, Chrystle Fiedler, a freelance writer in Greenport, N.Y., received help from the Writers Emergency Assistance Fund and the Haven Foundation, started by Stephen King. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); HURRICANES (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); WRITERS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (69%); WEATHER (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012



104 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: G.(reen)O.P.?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
MITT ROMNEY certainly has his weaknesses as a candidate, but his biggest challenge in attracting independent swing voters will be overcoming a well-earned reputation for saying whatever the Republican base wants to hear. Having watched him in the primaries, you have to wonder whether there is any issue in which he would turn to the far-right in his party and say: ''I'm sorry. You have this wrong. Here's the hard truth. ...''
One place he could start to change that perception is with the issues of energy, conservation and the environment. In recent years, the G.O.P. base has fallen into a knee-jerk drill, baby, drill attitude that clean energy is for sissies and protecting the environment only hurts jobs, therefore, conservatism and conservation can't mix. Last week, Romney traveled to a remote coal-mining town, Craig, Colo., where he trashed President Obama's green jobs record, while addressing workers wearing caps that said ''Coal = Jobs.'' Yes, it does, for lung doctors. 
This obsession with coal and oil strikes me as wrongheaded for three reasons. First, there is a more intelligent conservative energy strategy: a campaign to develop an energy mix that is ''American, diverse and clean.'' Put the G.O.P. behind whatever fuel sources or technologies the marketplace produces -- be they natural gas, wind, wave, solar, nuclear, efficiency, biofuels or sequestered coal -- provided they're produced in America, give us diversity of supply and steadily move us to cleaner air.
Second, this slavish devotion to coal and oil, and sneering at environmentalism, contradicts the G.O.P.'s long tradition of environmental stewardship that some Republicans are still proud of: Teddy Roosevelt bequeathed us national parks, Richard Nixon the Clean Air Act and the Environmental Protection Agency, Ronald Reagan the Montreal Protocol to protect the ozone layer and George H. W. Bush cap-and-trade that reduced acid rain. Does the G.O.P. really think it will attract the idealism of next-generation voters with mottos like ''Coal = Jobs''?
And, finally, the G.O.P.'s Tea Party base has grown more hostile than ever to conservation just when some big conservation groups have redefined their missions -- from protecting nature for its own sake, a noble goal, to also protecting our ''natural infrastructure'' that provides jobs, food and security.
This shift is best summed up by Glenn Prickett, the chief external affairs officer for The Nature Conservancy: ''We spent the 20th century protecting nature from people, and we will spend the 21st century protecting nature for people.''
The conservancy has broadened its emphasis from buying up natural land and locking it away so it can never be despoiled to building lasting economic partnerships between those who control ''natural infrastructure'' and those who benefit from it -- so both will have the interest and means to preserve it. For instance, the conservancy is working with cities in South America to organize large groups of water users -- bottling plants, hydroelectric dams and water utilities -- to finance the protection and restoration of watersheds upstream from their facilities. Planting trees that hold water like a sponge or protecting forests and natural vegetation that keep pollutants out of the water and prevent runoff is a much cheaper and more effective way to conserve water than building more reservoirs or treatment plants. And paying those upstream to protect this natural infrastructure gives them a sustainable means to do so.
Meanwhile, Conservation International (my wife is on the board) was founded 25 years ago to preserve biodiversity in the world's greatest ecosystems. But some three years ago, explained its co-founder Peter Seligmann, ''we realized that despite our intensive efforts to protect biodiversity, extinction rates were accelerating, fisheries were collapsing and the climate was changing. Just putting wilderness lands away in the conservation pantry was not going to work because, as people were more threatened, they would just grab it.''
So, said Seligmann, ''we officially changed our mission -- from protecting biodiversity alone to supporting human well-being by restoring and maintaining ecosystems that provide services to humanity.'' Once you show what healthy ecosystems provide for people, ''conservation'' takes on a whole new meaning: healthy farms depend on pollinators, healthy rivers on the forests that filter the water and prevent soil erosion, healthy fishing grounds on preserving the coral reefs where fish spawn, healthy coastal areas on the reefs and mangroves that blunt storm surges, healthy hydroelectric power on water from cloud forests. Good stewardship of natural infrastructure = jobs, security, food and water.
That's why conservationists and conservatives actually have more in common than ever today, depending on how Republicans define ''conservative.'' They can run away from a proud legacy of environmental stewardship by defining ''conservative'' as aligning the G.O.P. with the cheapest dirty fuels and dying industries -- and do whatever their lobbyists dictate. Or they can define ''conservative'' as protecting our natural infrastructure to promote clean growth -- in the spirit of Teddy Roosevelt -- and press for the cleanest fuel mix U.S. technology can produce. Over to you, Governor Romney.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); BIOMASS (75%); NATIONAL PARKS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); COAL MINING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BIOFUELS (65%); ACID RAIN (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



105 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Repairing Roads Can End All Kinds Of Gridlock

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
DEMOCRATS and Republicans share less common ground than at any point in living memory, and they are especially divided about our still-ailing economy. When Democrats propose additional economic stimulus, Republicans call for more cuts in government spending and regulation. And even though the effects of the Great Recession are still with us, political gridlock seems set to continue.
Yet recent public statements by both President Obama and his probable Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, suggest a way forward. The president has long advocated infrastructure investment as a way to put Americans back to work. For his part, Mr. Romney recently warned that government spending cuts would ''slow down the economy,'' so he, too, has acknowledged the clear link between spending and employment. 
Both men should thus be willing to take the one politically feasible step that could help mend the economy quickly: an accelerated program of infrastructure repairs. People in both parties already agree that these improvements are needed -- even apart from their impact on employment.
In its 2009 assessment of the nation's roads, bridges and other infrastructure, the American Society of Civil Engineers identified more than $2 trillion in long-overdue repairs. Of course, when maintenance is postponed, its cost rises rapidly. If Interstate highway repairs are delayed even briefly, damage from heavy trucks and winter weather can cause costs to rise several fold. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, substandard roads also cause $335 in annual damage per vehicle on the road. Still more troubling, those roads cause many easily preventable deaths and injuries. What could possibly justify further delay?
Some people object to the additional government debt that infrastructure repairs would require. As austerity proponents like to say, governments can't spend beyond their means indefinitely, any more than businesses or families can. It's a fair statement if we're talking about the long run. But in the short run, it's utterly false. When prudent investment opportunities arise, families, businesses, and governments can and should spend more than they take in.
Consider an indebted family that must decide whether to borrow $5,000 to install additional insulation in its attic, a project that would reduce its utility bills by an average of $100 a month and require loan payments of $50 a month. In the short run, obviously, the project would increase the family's indebtedness. But can there be any doubt that the family would be better off, in both the short and the long run, by going ahead with it? Even while making payments on the loan, it would have $50 more each month. And once the loan was paid off, it would have $100 a month more. What possible argument could be offered against this project?
The same logic applies to overdue infrastructure investments. Yes, paying for them requires more government debt. And while austerity advocates fret that such projects will impoverish our grandchildren, they concede that the investments can't be postponed indefinitely, and that they'll become much more expensive the longer we wait.
Our lingering economic doldrums reinforce the case. Many skilled people who can do these jobs are unemployed today. If we wait, we'll have to bid them away from other useful work. And with much of the world still in a downturn, the required materials are cheap. If we wait, they'll become more costly. Annual interest rates on 10-year Treasury notes have fallen below 1.5 percent. Those rates will also be higher if we wait. So it's actually our failure to undertake these projects that's saddling our grandchildren with gratuitously larger debt.
By itself, the savings from accelerating infrastructure repairs won't be enough to balance government budgets. But debt is a long-run problem, and as the budget surpluses of the late 1990s remind us, the American economy at full employment can generate more than enough revenue to pay the government's bills.
Allowing our economic sluggishness to continue will burden our future in several other ways. Recent graduates, for example, have had to begin their careers in the toughest labor market since the Great Depression. Their slow start will mean lower incomes for a lifetime. Because businesses are not investing at normal levels -- why build new factories if you can already produce more than consumers want to buy? -- the nation's future capital stock will be smaller. And that means slower growth in productivity and wages. Widespread unemployment and lagging wages have also meant higher poverty rates and more children with inadequate nutrition. In each case, the effect is to reduce future tax receipts, pushing government budgets further into the red.
The most important single step toward a brighter future is to repair our economy as soon as possible. And one of the surest ways to do so is a large and immediate infrastructure refurbishment program.
This path would not require Republicans to concede the merits of traditional Keynesian stimulus policy. Nor would it require them to abandon their concerns about the national debt. In short, the philosophical foundation for an agreement is already firmly in place.
If it doesn't happen, the coming political campaign will provide a golden opportunity to learn why. At the inevitable town hall meetings, voters who are tired of gridlock should ask candidates when they think that long-overdue infrastructure repairs should begin. The only defensible answer is ''Right now!'' Candidates who counsel further delay should be pressed to explain why.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY FREDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FAMILY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (55%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF STATE HIGHWAY & TRANSPORTATION OFFICIALS (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



106 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Weak Economy Points To Obama's Constraints

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and NICHOLAS KULISH; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The bleak jobs report on Friday predictably had heads snapping toward the White House, looking to President Obama to do something. Yet his proposed remedies only underscore how much the president, just five months before he faces voters, is at the mercy of actors in Europe, China and Congress whose political interests often conflict with his own.
That day, Mr. Obama continued his weekly travels around the country, prodding Congressional Republicans to pass his ''to-do list'' of temporary tax cuts and spending initiatives to help create jobs. The Republicans only mock him, which leaves Mr. Obama free to blame his opponents and their presidential standard-bearer, Mitt Romney. But in doing so, he telegraphs a message of powerlessness that no leader likes to convey -- least of all one who ran for office four years ago vowing to bridge Washington's partisan gulf.
Developments overseas have not helped either. American officials have complained as Beijing began letting its currency devalue again, making its exports cheaper and those from the United States to China more costly. And administration officials, and Mr. Obama himself, have lobbied leaders in Europe for more forceful action to promote growth or at least contain the threat of financial contagion there. 
In his weekly address on Saturday, recorded on Friday at a Honeywell International plant near Minneapolis, the president cited the global woes buffeting the economy. But he singled out Congress for rebuke.
''While we can't fully control everything that happens in other parts of the world, there are plenty of things we can control here at home,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There are plenty of steps we can take right now to help create jobs and grow this economy.''
Without mentioning Republicans, Mr. Obama said Congress had not passed measures he had proposed to get jobless construction workers rebuilding roads, bridges and runways; to give small businesses a tax break for new hires; and to help states pay teachers, firefighters and police officers. The steady elimination of public sector jobs has offset increased hiring in the private sector for more than two years.
''So my message to Congress is: Get to work,'' he added.
Alan J. Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said, ''Frankly, I don't see what President Obama can do right now other than to forcefully present a detailed plan for action and challenge Congress to take it up.''
But ''short of a real crisis,'' as in 2008, Mr. Auerbach, an expert on fiscal policy, added, ''I doubt that there is anything he can do to spur meaningful legislation before the election.''
Yet even in 2008, with the financial system near collapse, most Congressional Republicans rejected the rescue plan of a Republican president, George W. Bush. And now, despite their own record-low numbers in the polls, they have next to no incentive to help an embattled Democratic president lift the economy.
Continued economic anemia plays to Mr. Romney's call for new stewardship, and to Republicans' demands to extend and deepen the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans rather than let them expire, as Mr. Obama and Democrats want. And they figure that if Mr. Romney succeeds, it will probably help them win close House and Senate races, while Mr. Obama's re-election could do the opposite.
By emboldening Republicans, the report on Friday that the economy added only 69,000 jobs in May seemed to dash the hopes of some in the White House for a replay of 1996. That summer, as President Bill Clinton sought re-election with the economy improving, Republicans in Congress decided that their party's weak presidential nominee, Senator Bob Dole, was doomed. To Mr. Dole's chagrin, they compromised with the Democratic president to notch some significant achievements and ensure their own survival.
Gene Sperling, the chief White House economic adviser, said, ''There is no question that had Congress acted on the president's proposals nine months ago to prevent teacher layoffs, put construction workers back to work and cut small-business taxes, our job situation today would be notably stronger and unemployment would be lower.'' Analyses by macroeconomic firms and nonpartisan financial analysts agreed.
While Mr. Obama seeks to make Republicans the villains when it comes to the economy, he is also, more diplomatically, blaming Europe. In Minneapolis and Chicago on Friday, he cited the impact of the continent's travails on the American economy.
Citing the jobs report, Mr. Obama said, ''A lot of that is attributable to Europe and the cloud that's coming over from the Atlantic, and the whole world economy has been weakened by it.''
As lackluster as the American jobs data was, with unemployment inching up one-tenth of a percentage point to 8.2 percent, the news from Europe was far worse: the jobless rate in the euro zone hit 11 percent, the highest since tracking began in 1995. ''There's really nothing the U.S. can do,'' said Charles Calomiris, professor of finance and economics at Columbia Business School.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama had a video conference call with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Francois Hollande of France and Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy to discuss developments in Europe and plan for this month's G-20 summit meeting in Mexico. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner continued to trade calls with Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble. And late Friday, Mr. Obama's Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, Lael Brainard, returned from a week of consultations in Athens, Frankfurt, Madrid, Paris and Berlin.
Mr. Obama ''emphasizes that what happens in Europe is of global concern,'' said Michael Froman, the White House adviser for international economic affairs. ''We want to be of help, whether in providing ideas or lessons from our experience as they work through these issues.''
For more than two years, Mr. Obama and Mr. Geithner have prodded Europe, led by Germany, to do more to revive the region's weakest economies rather than push budget cuts, which have resulted in more losses of jobs and consumer spending power. Their results, however, have been limited at best.
Germany has shown some willingness to bend. Officials in Berlin have signaled that they could accept higher wages at home and inflation above the euro zone's average. Last week, a finance ministry spokesman said Germany could be more flexible about the timing of budget cuts in Spain -- after Greece, the source of greatest anxiety now.
But Germans are deeply concerned that supporting big transfers of aid to troubled countries within the euro zone will create a precedent and the expectation in other countries that they, or their banks, will be bailed out whenever necessary. Germans also believe that issuing debt jointly with other European countries, known as euro bonds, which the United States supports, would be struck down as unconstitutional by their high court.
And they routinely dismiss any criticism from across the Atlantic as election-year politicking.
''Germans do not think Americans have anything to offer at the moment in terms of helping us with the euro crisis,'' said Thomas Risse, professor of international politics at the Free University in Berlin. ''Everyone thinks it's just about Obama's re-election here, which is wrong, but they think it.''
After the United States said this spring that it would not increase its contribution to the International Monetary Fund, its influence in Europe was blunted.
Even so, ''the I.M.F. appears to not be having the influence it usually does,'' said Franklin Allen, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. ''It seems like Berlin is making all the decisions at the moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Friday at a Honeywell International plant near Minneapolis, where he spoke about global economic woes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (66%); DEVALUATION (52%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (54%); HON (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



107 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Abim Thomas, Hamilton Jones

 BODY:
Elizabeth Abimbola Thomas and Hamilton Butler Jones were married Saturday at the Memorial Church on the Harvard University campus in Cambridge, Mass. Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts performed the ceremony, with the Rev. John H. Finley IV, an Episcopal priest, taking part. 
The bride, 37, who is known as Abim, is keeping her name. She is the deputy chief counsel to Mr. Patrick. She graduated from Harvard and received a law degree from Georgetown.
She is a daughter of Mary Ann Thomas of Yreka, Calif., and Adebisi B. Thomas of Lagos, Nigeria. Her father is the director of African Capacity Matters, an organization in Cotonou, Benin, that supports economic and political advancement in sub-Saharan Africa. Her mother is an information technology specialist for the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service in Emeryville, Calif.
The bridegroom, 42, is a freelance video editor. He graduated from Boston University.
He is a son of Katherine B. Jones and Hubert E. Jones of Newton, Mass. His mother is a founder of the Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity, a program based in the Roxbury section of Boston that is designed to increase diversity in Boston metropolitan public schools. His father retired as the dean of the Boston University School of Social Work, and is the founder of the Boston Children's Chorus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BENIN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012



108 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Imagining A Romney Recovery

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
EARLIER this year, well before the latest round of job numbers made the current recovery look even more sickly, the Obama campaign released a chart putting the bravest possible face on its economic record.
The chart shows private-sector job losses and gains by month from 2008 through the present, with the figures for George W. Bush's presidency in red and Barack Obama's in blue. The red numbers descend toward the nadir of January 2009; the blue numbers climb, albeit in fits and starts, reaching positive territory in early 2010 and staying there ever since. The message is clear: Bush brought us to our knees; Obama brought us back.
After 40 months of 8 percent unemployment, the second half of that message rings awfully hollow. But the first half probably has some resonance with voters. Indeed, the memory of the Bush presidency represents one of the few things the president still has going for him as he seeks an economic rationale for his re-election. 
As grim as the Obama era has been, Americans still have a distinctly negative reading on what the last period of Republican economic stewardship delivered: rising health care costs, wage stagnation, a real estate bubble and then of course the financial crash itself.
Against this backdrop, it may not be quite enough for Mitt Romney to explain how the incumbent has failed. He needs to explain why, so soon after the Bush era, the country should trust his party to put things right again.
As it happens, two new books by right-of-center thinkers offer interesting -- and very different -- answers to that question. The first is ''Unintended Consequences: Why Everything You've Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong,'' by Edward Conard, a former managing director at (ahem) Bain Capital, who was profiled in The New York Times Magazine a month ago. The second is ''A Capitalism for the People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of American Prosperity,'' by the University of Chicago business professor Luigi Zingales.
As its subtitle suggests, Conard's book is an attack on much of the received wisdom about the crash of 2008. He argues that America's pre-crisis economic gains were real rather than illusory. (''The U.S. economy was on fire before the financial crisis,'' he writes.) He defends the growth of the financial sector and the bubble-era behavior of the major banks. And he argues that the crisis itself was less a comprehensive meltdown than a simple panic that tells us very little about the underlying soundness of the economic order.
Indeed, against the current antibailout mood, Conard suggests that we actually need stronger government guarantees for too-big-to-fail institutions, to encourage the kind of risk-taking that reaps long-term rewards. In a similar spirit, he defends the extraordinary wealth accrued by America's richest 1 percent, arguing that such huge rewards are necessary to induce talented people to become entrepreneurs and investors rather than just white-collar time-servers.
Zingales, on the other hand, looks at the same picture and sees less that's worth defending. Even before the financial crisis hit, he argues, for average Americans the benefits of the economic order were ''neither as great nor as widespread as they once were.'' This trend was not just a necessary side effect of suitably rewarding risk-taking at the top. It also reflected the pervasiveness of crony capitalism across a wide range of industries (the financial sector very much included), which has tilted the economic system in favor of the already connected.
To Zingales, the Wall Street bailout was the natural outgrowth of trends that threaten to send the United States down the same path as his native Italy -- toward corruption, stagnation and worse. Given this context, he concludes, what's needed from conservatives are fewer uncritical defenses of big business and the rich, and more of a ''free-market populism'' that would attack corruption and cartels in the private and public sector alike.
What would these competing narratives imply for the Romney campaign -- or a Romney presidency? If Conard is right that the Bush-era economy was basically on a sound footing, then simply rolling back Obama-era interventions and forestalling tax increases on the investor class would probably restore our economic health. That points to a relatively conventional Republican policy vision, focused primarily on keeping marginal tax rates as low as possible.
Zingales's narrative, on the other hand, suggests that more radical reforms are needed to restore American competitiveness. A Republican administration influenced by his book would place a heavier emphasis on issues that the right is often uncomfortable tackling -- not only health care and education, but also some form of financial-sector reform.
Given his own background, it's a safe bet that Mitt Romney identifies more with Conard's perspective on the world. But that makes it all the more important that he consider Zingales's equally provocative account as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Unintended Consequences: Why Everything You've Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong (Book); A Capitalism for the People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of American Prosperity (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



109 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming Of a Superhero

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
ON Friday night, the nation's capital was under a tornado watch. And that was the best thing that happened to the White House all week.
As the president was being slapped by Mitt Romney for being too weak on national security, he was being rapped by a Times editorial for being too aggressive on national security.
A Times article by Jo Becker and Scott Shane revealed that the liberal law professor who campaigned against torture and the Iraq war now personally makes the final decisions on the ''kill list,'' targets for drone strikes. ''A unilateral campaign of death is untenable,'' the editorial asserted.
On Thursday, Bill Clinton once more telegraphed that he considers Obama a lightweight who should not have bested his wife. Bluntly contradicting the Obama campaign theme that Romney is a heartless corporate raider, Clinton told CNN that the Republican's record at Bain was ''sterling.'' 
Covering a humorous W. at the unveiling of his portrait, the White House press actually seemed nostalgic for the president who bollixed up Afghanistan, Iraq, Katrina and the economy -- a sure sign that the Obama magic is flagging.
On Friday, an ugly job market report led to the stock market's worst day of the year. As the recovery flat-lined, the president conceded to a crowd at a Honeywell factory in Golden Valley, Minn., that ''our economy is still facing some serious headwinds'' and getting sucked further into Europe's sinkhole. In depressing imagery for the start of the summer campaign, cable channels carried the red Dow arrow pointing down while Obama spoke; the Dow wiped out all of its 2012 gains.
The president who started off with such dazzle now seems incapable of stimulating either the economy or the voters. His campaign is offering Obama 2012 car magnets for a donation of $10; cat collars reading ''I Meow for Michelle'' for $12; an Obama grill spatula for $40, and discounted hoodies and T-shirts. How the mighty have fallen.
Once glowing, his press is now burning. ''To a very real degree, 2008's candidate of hope stands poised to become 2012's candidate of fear,'' John Heilemann wrote in New York magazine, noting that because Obama feels he can't run on his record, his campaign will resort to nuking Romney.
In his new book, ''A Nation of Wusses,'' the Democrat Ed Rendell, the former governor of Pennsylvania, wonders how ''the best communicator in campaign history'' lost his touch.
The legendary speaker who drew campaign crowds in the tens of thousands and inspired a dispirited nation ended up nonchalantly delegating to a pork-happy Congress, disdaining the bully pulpit, neglecting to do any L.B.J.-style grunt work with Congress and the American public, and ceding control of his narrative.
As president, Obama has never felt the need to explain or sell his signature pieces of legislation -- the stimulus and health care bills -- or stanch the flow of false information from the other side.
''The administration lost the communications war with disastrous consequences that played out on Election Day 2010,'' Rendell writes, and Obama never got credit for the two pieces of legislation where he reached for greatness.
The president had lofty dreams of playing the great convener and conciliator. But at a fund-raiser in Minneapolis, he admitted he's just another combatant in a capital full of Hatfields and McCoys. No compromises, just nihilism.
If he wins the election, ''the fever may break,'' he said. ''My hope, my expectation, is that after the election, now that it turns out that the goal of beating Obama doesn't make much sense because I'm not running again, that we can start getting some cooperation again.''
In his new biography, ''Barack Obama: The Story,'' David Maraniss writes that a roommate of the young Obama compared him to Walker Percy's protagonist in ''The Moviegoer'': an observer of his life, one step removed.
Obama's boss at his community organizing job in Chicago, Jerry Kellman, observed: ''He was not unwilling to take risks, but was just this strange combination of someone who would have to weigh everything to death, and then take a dramatic risk at the end. He was reluctant to do confrontation, to push the other side because it might blow up -- and it might. But one thing Alinsky did understand was that within reason, once something blows up, to a certain degree it doesn't hurt, it helps.''
Maraniss's book depicts Obama on an intense odyssey of self-discovery, moving toward defining himself less as a half-white man with white girlfriends than as a black man who wanted to be part of a black community.
His New York girlfriend, Genevieve Cook, told Maraniss that Obama confessed to her that ''he felt like an impostor. Because he was so white. There was hardly a black bone in his body.'' When she predicted that his future might be with a black woman -- ''That lithe, bubbly, strong black lady is waiting somewhere!'' she wrote in her journal -- he told her ''he doubted there were any black women he would feel truly comfortable with. I would tell him, 'No, she is out there.' ''
He wanted to get out of the corporate world he found so distasteful -- he described himself as ''a spy behind enemy lines'' -- and reimagine himself as a politician.
On CNBC on Friday, Romney complained that Obama has ''been more focused on his perspective of his historic legislative achievements than he has been focused on getting people back to work.''
A president focused on historic achievements? Imagine that. But in his lame way, Romney got at Obama's problem: The Moviegoer prefers to float above, at a reserve, in grandiose mists.
As Maraniss recounts, Obama said he liked reading Hemingway because of Papa's ''integrity of grasping for those times, those visions, that are ones of true magnificence and profundity.''
Cook told Maraniss that she thought Obama's desire to ''play out a superhero life'' was ''a very strong archetype in his personality.''
But superheroes and mythic figures must boldly lead. Obama's caution -- ingrained from a life of being deserted by his father and sometimes his mother, and of being, as he wrote to another girlfriend, ''caught without a class, a structure, or tradition to support me'' -- has restrained him at times.
In some ways, he's still finding himself, too absorbed to see what's not working. But the White House is a very hard place to go on a vision quest, especially with a storm brewing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEATHER (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); GOVERNORS (60%); EMPLOYMENT (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ED RENDELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



110 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths IKLE, DORIS M

 BODY:
IKLE--Doris M. 84, of Bethesda, MD died June 1, 2012 peacefully at her home with her family by her side. Doris was an economist by training and a pioneer in energy efficiency. She died of complications related to ovarian cancer, which she had struggled with since her first diagnosis nineteen years ago. Doris was predeceased by her husband of 52 years, Fred C. Ikle (1924-2011). She is survived by two daughters Judith Ikle of San Francisco, CA and Mimi Ikle-Khalsa of Takoma Park, MD, sons-in-law Aaron Maizlish and Sat Jiwan Ikle-Khalsa, three wonderful grandchildren, Leo and Anna Ikle-Maizlish and Kyah Ikle-Khalsa, a sister Miriam Goodley of Oakland, CA and two nieces. 
Her ability to persevere through multiple bouts of cancer for nineteen years and to go on and continue to live a productive and happy life as a wife, mother and CEO of her own business has been an inspiration to many. Doris Margret Eisemann was born on May 28, 1928 in Frankfurt, Germany to Richard and Sonja Eisemann. Her parents decided to leave Germany in the spring of 1933 in response to the rising tide of anti-Semitism. The family lived briefly in Switzerland and then in Paris, France before emigrating to the United States in 1937. Doris lived in New York City, Riverdale and Forest Hills and graduated from Forest Hills High School in 1945. She received both Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Economics from New York University in 1949 and 1953 and completed postgraduate studies in Economics at Columbia University. She held research positions with the National Bureau of Economic Research and the American Banker's Association in New York. She developed the Ikle Index, which measures economic purchase price parity. While employed as an Economist with the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Doris met the love of her life, the Swiss-born Fred C. Ikle. With their two daughters, Judith and Mimi, they moved first to Washington in 1973 with Fred's political appointment as the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and eventually built their own home inBethesda, MD. In 1977, Doris started her second career as an entrepreneur and renowned expert on residential energy efficiency. She started her company, Conservation Management Corp., now named CMC Energy Services, literally at her kitchen table, to address the need for energy efficiency. Doris was the President and CEO of CMC Energy Services from 1977 to 2010, and stayed on as the Chief Innovation Officer until last month remaining very involved with the day-to-day operations of her business right up to her last days. Early on, she developed the Fuelomizer, a do-it-yourself energy audit slide chart tool. Doris also developed Home Tune-uP a sophisticated software and auditor management tool for residential energy audits. Today, CMC has provided energy audits to over 350,000 residences and 50,000 commercial buildings and employs over 95 people administering energy efficiency programs in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York State. In 2010, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Alliance to Save Energy. A Memorial Service will be held on Sunday, June 10, 2012 at 10am, at Temple Emanuel, 10101 Connecticut Ave, Kensington, MD 20895. Donations in honor of Doris may be made to Johns Hopkins University or a charity of your choosing. For JHU, please make your check out to Johns Hopkins University noting Doris' name in the memo. Mail to: Ovarian Cancer Research Fund at 100 N. Charles St., #

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); DEATHS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); CANCER (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); OVARIAN CANCER (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (50%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (74%); FRANCE (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



111 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Euro Zone Is Lurching to a Crossroad

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting from Berlin.

 BODY:
LONDON -- As Spain's economic crisis deepens and uncertainty swirls over Greece's future in the euro zone, the guardians of the increasingly fragile European monetary union are near a moment of truth: can they muster the will and resources to keep the euro zone from breaking apart?
The question has grown more urgent since the release of data Friday showing a record-high rate of unemployment in the euro zone, poor job creation in the United States and a slowdown in manufacturing in China. Combined, those signals have fueled fears of a second worldwide recession.
On consecutive days last week, two of the most powerful figures in Europe -- Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, and Olli Rehn, the most senior economic official in Brussels -- warned that the future of the euro zone was in doubt. In the words of Mr. Rehn, the union might well disintegrate unless policy makers take steps to bind the 17 European Union nations that use the euro closer together. 
Coming as they did from two men at the very soul of the European project, the cautions were a stark reminder of just how much the Spanish financial crisis had shaken the confidence of the European brain trust, to say nothing of investors from New York to Beijing.
Over the weekend, leaders of two of Europe's most vulnerable countries rallied to the cry of more unification. Mario Monti of Italy called for using euro bonds to create a quicker path to common debt for Europe. And Mariano Rajoy of Spain floated the idea of a common fiscal authority in Europe to synchronize budgets and manage debts.
German policy makers have said that kind of deeper budget integration and supervision is a prerequisite before any sort of euro bonds could be issued. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called last week for a plan to give more power and competencies to the European Commission in Brussels, but through treaty changes as part of a five- or even 10-year process.
Ms. Merkel is trying to remake the Continent's economy after Germany's own, with less-regulated labor markets and higher retirement ages at the top of the list. She would like to see strict deficit controls enforced across the euro zone by the European Court of Justice, as part of the broader ceding of national power at the heart of her vision for more centralization.
But as global economic gloom deepens, there is a risk that such lofty talk could be too little, too late for investors, especially with Spain seeming on the brink of a banking collapse.
Spain is sitting on an estimated 220 billion euros, or about $273 billion, in failed real estate loans alone -- a number that surpasses the entire output of the Greek economy. And with the fourth-largest euro zone economy -- behind Germany, France and Italy -- there is little doubt that Spain is too big to fail. Or, more precisely, to be allowed to fail.
Indeed, many investors and money managers now see Europe's challenge as not how to bail out sickly Spanish banks, but how to keep Spain and even Italy afloat and in the euro zone as money keeps leaving these countries, forcing up interest rates and leaving sagging local banks as the only buyers of government debt.
''The euro zone is disintegrating and this has started to feed into institutional capital flight out of the euro zone,'' said Jens Nordvig, a senior bond and currency specialist at Nomura in New York. ''The crisis has reached a new level. Policy makers are realizing that there are only two options. Further integration or a breakup.''
Arriving at an action plan and amassing the cash to back it up will be no easy matter, though. Analysts estimate that a comprehensive rescue for Spain would cost 350 billion euros, and one for Italy even more. Sums that large would quickly overwhelm the 500 billion euros available in the new European rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism.
Integration, in the form of banking and fiscal unions, would take time, of course, although policy makers are pushing harder than ever on these fronts. As for short-term measures that countries like Spain are pushing for, namely to press Europe to provide money for its banks or buy its bonds in bulk, these steps would require sacrifices that Spain seems in no mood to make.
It is the nub of the euro zone's existential quandary: how to get taxpayers in northern creditor countries like Germany to provide funds to countries like Greece and Spain that are unwilling to accept the loss of sovereign control over their banks and budgets that would be a consequence of such assistance.
''Spain wants the money to bail out its banks, but it does not want the conditions,'' said Charles Wyplosz, an international finance expert at the Graduate Institute in Geneva. ''But at the end of the day, they will have to accept conditionality because, for now, these are the rules.''
Analysts estimate that the amount needed to backstop failing Spanish banks is 60 billion to 80 billion euros, which could come from Europe's rescue fund.
The sticking point is that Spain wants Europe to inject money directly into these banks, as in the bank bailout program in the United States in 2008 and a similar effort by the British government.
Germany, however, has no desire to swallow the bill for Spain's bad banks, so it is insisting that funds be disbursed to the Spanish government and that strings be attached. It wants more draconian spending cuts and perhaps even losses for the mostly Spanish investors who hold the stocks and bonds of these failed banks.
The newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported that Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, last week pressed Spain's economy minister, Luis de Guindos, to accept a bailout from the European Financial Stability Facility; Mr. de Guindos rebuffed him. But as Berlin and Brussels butt heads with Madrid over who pays what, when and how, money continues to flee Spain at an alarming rate. According to figures from the Spanish central bank, 66 billion euros left the country in March as investors sold Spanish stocks and bonds with abandon. And in April, the outflow of deposits from Spanish banks also picked up, with 31 billion euros leaving the Spanish banking system, according to the European Central Bank.
Simply put, the number of investors willing to hold Spanish assets of any kind is shrinking by the day. Moreover, with many money managers now concluding that Greece will return to the drachma after elections June 17, the attack on Spain has broadened into an attack on the euro itself, as reflected by the currency's precipitous fall to a two-year low of 1.23 against the dollar.
''The market is massively short Europe,'' said a hedge fund trader based in London who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. ''There is just a feeling that it's too late for steps like deposit guarantee schemes to help Greece or Spain.''
In particular, analysts are looking ahead to a Spanish bond auction of about 2 billion euros set for Thursday. The sale is expected to include 10-year bonds. There are doubts that banks, in the current environment, will jump to buy such long-term paper, given the increased risks in holding Spanish debt. Even yields nearing 7 percent may not lure them.
Of course, for financial professionals, it is easy to expect the worst when all day long the screens in front of you show persistent losses.
Some experts said, though, that it would be a mistake to underestimate European resolve about ramming through unifying measures like euro bonds and tighter common control of national budgets -- especially when the prospect for not doing so looks so dire.
''The bet by investors has always been that the policy response from Europe would not be enough to keep countries in the euro,'' said Douglas Rediker, a former member of the executive board of the International Monetary Fund who is now at the New America Foundation in Washington. ''But the measures being discussed today -- harmonized banking regulation, bank deposit guarantees and euro bonds -- were not even on the table two years ago.''
Mr. Rediker was not necessarily predicting a big bailout for Spain. But he said that for such a rescue to be effective, it would cost 350 billion euros to provide the country with enough cash to avoid borrowing from the bond market at the current punitively high interest rates.
This week, fund economists will travel to Spain to conduct their yearly assessment of the economy. If matters do not improve soon, the visit could well be the last checkup before the final operation begins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters inside a Bankia branch last week in Madrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA COMAS/REUTERS) (B1)
Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, center in top photograph, has warned that the future of the euro zone is in doubt. To preserve the common currency, Mario Monti, Italy's leader, above left, is pressing for the creation of euro bonds to unify Europe's debts. Mariano Rajoy of Spain, above right, has suggested a common fiscal authority to help stabilize the region. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS
ROBERTO MONALDO/PRESL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SUSANNA SAEZ/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROBONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); BANK FAILURES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) EUROPE (99%); SPAIN (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (93%); GREECE (88%); BELGIUM (88%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



112 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Was Warned About Lax Risk Controls

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
A small group of shareholder advocates delivered an urgent message to top executives at JPMorgan Chase more than a year ago: the bank's risk controls needed to be improved.
JPMorgan officials dismissed the warning from the CtW Investment Group, the advocates, who also cautioned bank officials that the company had fallen behind the risk-management practices of its peers.
Now, after disclosing a $2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan in May and watching the bank's market value drop by more than $25 billion, those officials are expected to follow one of the group's recommendations, strengthening the board panel that oversees risk.
Still, that will not address weaknesses that critics say undermined the power of the bank's chief risk officer. According to two former traders at the chief investment office and outside specialists, the chief risk officer was not focused on the huge credit market bets the chief investment office made that eventually went bad. 
What is more, in some cases, the chief risk officer did not review large trades by the chief investment office or properly set position limits, the former traders said.
''They got a bit too comfortable and seemed to ignore the chief investment office,'' said one of the former bankers, who insisted on anonymity because the loss is under investigation by a host of regulators.
JPMorgan officials insist there was no structural flaw in risk management or setting position limits. ''The chief risk officer has direct authority for the risk management of the entire firm, including oversight of the chief investment office,'' said Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for the bank.
But the critics maintain that having successfully navigated the financial crisis in 2008, JPMorgan's risk officers became complacent about the danger posed by the chief investment office's increasingly aggressive bets. In addition, while the office was profitable throughout the financial crisis, the chief risk officer was focused on problems elsewhere, including the bank's money-losing mortgage business.
That complacency also caused JPMorgan Chase to lose ground, even as large rivals overhauled their risk management operations as a result of the crisis. The JPMorgan executives charged with judging risk were paid significantly less than their counterparts at other banks.
''There's no doubt that there was a sense of overconfidence there,'' said Michael Greenberger, a professor of law at the University of Maryland and a former regulator with the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The $2 billion loss does not threaten the overall health of JPMorgan Chase, which is still expected to report a substantial profit for the second quarter. But it is an embarrassing stumble for the bank, the nation's biggest financial institution, and has emboldened regulators in Washington who are in the last stages of writing new rules for the entire industry.
It has also refocused attention on internal risk controls across the banking sector, despite the changes that have been made since the financial crisis.
''There have been increased efforts to improve risk controls,'' Mr. Greenberger said. ''But it wouldn't surprise me if three or four months from now, there is another explosion somewhere else.''
Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, has acknowledged the trades were ''sloppy'' and ''stupid,'' but JPMorgan officials insist that nothing was fundamentally wrong with the risk-management structure or the ability of the chief risk officer to head off trades that endangered the bank.
While Mr. Dimon earned a reputation as a keen judge of risk, especially in the financial crisis, JPMorgan's own chief risk officer earned less than some of his peers at rival financial giants. At Citigroup, for example, the chief risk officer, Brian Leach, earned $9 million in 2011, making him that company's fourth-highest paid executive. At JPMorgan, Barry Zubrow, the chief risk officer until January and now in charge of corporate and regulatory affairs, was not among the top tier in compensation, and his pay is not disclosed. By contrast, Ina Drew, the executive who led the chief investment office, was near the top.
Ms. Drew, who has been blamed for the debacle and resigned last month, earned roughly $14 million in 2011, making her the fourth-highest paid executive at the bank. Nor was Mr. Zubrow among the highest-paid executives at JPMorgan in 2010, when Ms. Drew earned more than $15 million. At Bank of America that year, the chief risk officer Bruce R. Thompson was the highest-paid executive, making $11.4 million.
Compensation is more than a matter of ego for risk officers, said Dave Gibbons, a managing director at Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm that works with banks. ''The chief risk officer needs to be high enough in the organization to command stature, and the C.R.O.'s compensation needs to complement that stature,'' Mr. Gibbons said. ''The position should be equal to the C.E.O.'s other direct reports. It doesn't work to try to control the risk behavior of business leaders from a subordinate position, organizationally or culturally.''
The trading loss has also focused attention on how corporate boards handle the issue of companywide risk, said William Patterson, executive director of the CtW Investment Group, which represents union pension funds. Mr. Patterson delivered the initial warning to JPMorgan executives at a meeting in April 2011 that included James Crown, a board member, and Mr. Zubrow.
''We have been deeply concerned about whether the board is effectively monitoring risk appetite and setting up internal controls,'' Mr. Patterson said in an interview last week. Specifically, Mr. Patterson told the executives that the three-person board panel that was responsible for monitoring overall risk-taking lacked sufficient familiarity with the more technical aspects of finance and banking.
One of the three members, Ellen V. Futter, is the president of the American Museum of Natural History, and a former president of Barnard College. Another, Mr. Crown, is a real estate heir who runs his family's investment firm.
That lack of risk expertise made it hard for the board's risk committee to question the information provided by senior bank officials as the chief investment office's bets were growing, said Cliff Rossi, a former senior risk officer at Citigroup who is now on the finance faculty at the University of Maryland's Robert H. Smith School of Business.
''You need a board with sufficient knowledge so they have the ability to ask tough questions,'' Mr. Rossi said. ''It's sort of like being a good detective.''
At Bank of America, the board's risk committee includes Susan S. Bies, a former Federal Reserve Board governor, and Frank P. Bramble, a longtime banker.
In a letter to JPMorgan officials in April 2011, shortly before the meeting at JPMorgan, Mr. Patterson noted the improvements in board-level risk management undertaken by other big banks. ''JPMorgan's board significantly trails its peers in these efforts,'' he wrote, ''having taken very few visible steps to enhance its oversight of risk or recruit new director talent since the financial crisis.''
Now, in the wake of the trading loss, JPMorgan is expected to change the composition of its risk committee by adding current board members with more relevant experience, possibly including Timothy P. Flynn, the former chairman of the accounting giant KPMG.
Another problem, Mr. Patterson said, is that JPMorgan's board has been too deferential to top executives, including Mr. Zubrow and Mr. Dimon.
JPMorgan had an ''old-fashioned model of governance where the board picks the best chief executive and then takes a back seat,'' Mr. Patterson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barry Zubrow, former chief risk officer at JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); FUTURES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



113 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Asleep at the Laptop

BYLINE: By PREET BHARARA. 
Preet Bharara is the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.

 BODY:
THE alarm bells sound regularly: cybergeddon; the next Pearl Harbor; one of the greatest existential threats facing the United States. With increasing frequency, these are the grave terms officials invoke about the menace of cybercrime -- and they're not understating the threat.
Some cybercrime is aimed directly at our national security, imperiling our infrastructure, government secrets and public safety. But as the recent wave of attacks by the hacker collective Anonymous demonstrates, it also targets private industry, threatening the security of our markets, our exchanges, our bank accounts, our trade secrets and our personal privacy. 
With all the attention paid to the so-called fiscal cliff approaching at year's end, it is equally important to ask whether collective inaction has us simultaneously barreling toward a cybercliff of equal or greater height.
As the United States attorney in Manhattan, I have come to worry about few things as much as the gathering cyberthreat. Law enforcement is racing to respond, filling its ranks and fortifying its defenses against cyber-malefactors. Businesses should worry, too. But my experience suggests that they are not doing nearly enough to protect themselves, their customers and their shareholders.
Recently I met two executives from major companies who did not even know whom in law enforcement to contact in the event of a hack or intrusion. A few weeks ago, after a speech I gave about cybercrime, a board member of a significant Internet-based company took me aside and admitted, with some horror, that his company's board had not spent a single minute discussing cybersecurity.
These troubling admissions reveal critically outdated thinking in the business community. But there is recourse, and the cliff can still be avoided.
For one thing, large and small corporations alike must adopt a culture of disclosure. A bank would never think to delay reporting to the police a conventional robbery by a masked criminal wielding a gun and a note. But that is what institutions are still routinely doing after being compromised by anonymous criminals operating through the Internet.
Corporations may wait days or even weeks and months, or never disclose the attacks at all, for fear of exposing proprietary information. But doing so makes it much harder to identify the perpetrator and prevent future economic injury. It also makes it harder to tell who the next victim might be, so that they might assess their own vulnerabilities and formulate solutions.
Businesses should be assured that law enforcement will operate with the utmost sensitivity toward victims of cyberattacks. Prosecutors and agents have developed techniques to minimize disruptions to daily operations and to safeguard proprietary information. Where necessary, we can seek judicial orders to protect confidentiality. But to the extent that businesses remain allergic to the idea of promptly reporting cybercrime to law enforcement, they need to get over it.
Second, every company needs to do a better job of creating and fostering a culture of security. A recent report by Verizon suggests that a stunning 97 percent of data breaches last year were avoidable. That's because even well-intentioned companies that are already spending large sums of money on high-tech security are overlooking the most fundamental precautions.
In a way, they're overthinking the threat. We have a false impression that all hackers are hyper-sophisticated, digital versions of Tom Cruise rappelling down a building, ''Mission Impossible''-style. But the more mundane reality is that companies are most often breached by hackers walking down virtual hallways, looking for a single unlocked door. And the proverbial unlocked door can mean entry into the entire data network.
In response, companies must start thinking ahead of the hack and locking their doors. It is simply no longer enough for company leaders to take a hands-off approach, leaving these matters to a few ''techies.'' Such an attitude practically invites a hack. Even simple measures -- like employee training and regular threat assessments -- can help companies avoid becoming the easy target.
But the most important step is the most obvious and fundamental one: understanding the threat in a comprehensive, serious manner. Every member of a board or executive suite is duty bound to protect the institution against material risk, whether they currently possess particular expertise or not. And yet, how many companies have a concrete plan in place to deal with a hack? How many conduct independent audits of their cybervulnerabilities? The answer, many in my position fear, is too few.
Some say we are outgunned. But in my view, it is less a matter of being outgunned than being simply outdated -- in our thinking and in our vision. Yes, there is an army of computer saboteurs, spies, thieves and nihilists who wish to do us harm. But we have an army, too, or at least the makings of one, which can draw from the best of law enforcement, intelligence, business and academia.
I have no doubt that we could find the collective will to amass and mobilize our army once a true catastrophe strikes -- just as we did after Pearl Harbor and Sept. 11, 2001. The question is whether we can do so before that happens.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MSMDNYC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (76%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); LAWYERS (70%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



114 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: The Undoing of the Daily

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
The news waits for no one. But newspapers might start asking readers to -- at least for print copies.
Almost two weeks ago, The Times-Picayune in New Orleans, which is owned by Advance Publications, announced that it would cut back its print schedule to just three days a week. Within hours, its sister publications The Birmingham News, The Press-Register of Mobile and The Huntsville Times followed suit. Four days later, Postmedia announced that three of its papers, The Calgary Herald, The Edmonton Journal and The Ottawa Citizen would all eliminate their Sunday editions.
Newspaper executives across the industry lament the loss of the daily print paper, but concede they might follow the same path. John Paton, chief executive officer of Digital First Media, which operates 75 daily newspapers, said he would consider reducing his print schedule when there was enough digital advertising to support it.
''I'm a career newspaperman. I feel the emotional tug. My father was a printer. I get it,'' Mr. Paton said. ''If you care about journalism, you've got to do this.'' 
By cutting back on print publishing, newspaper executives are betting they can wean loyal customers and advertisers from their daily print newspaper habit, while at the same time driving them to their own Web site. Some industry analysts warn that readers raised on a daily newspaper appearing at their door will lose a sense of loyalty if it arrives only a few days a week. It is like having CBS and NBC going dark on nights when they do not sell much advertising.
''It is risky because you do invite readers to go elsewhere,'' said Craig Huber, an independent research analyst with Huber Research Partners. ''It might drive more loyal print readers away from the newspaper as they're looking for a consistent place to get their news seven days a week.''
Newspaper executives argue that printing and delivering newspapers only on certain days will sharply cut costs while at least preserving some of the paper advertising, which remains far more lucrative than digital ads. Harold Vogel, a media analyst and author of ''Entertainment Industry Economics,'' estimated that costs like ink, printing and delivery, make up at least 30 percent of total costs for the paper.
''For the local papers, this is their best attempt at survival,'' Mr. Vogel said. ''The fixed costs are high and they cannot in my opinion make a real pay wall that a sufficient number of people will subscribe to cover the costs.''
Of course, newspaper companies often carry the burden of printing plants and delivery trucks whether or not they publish papers on a particular day. But the decision to reduce print papers is usually accompanied by cuts on the newsroom side, as well.
While Advance holds an advantage that many other newspapers lack because its papers are generally not unionized, it still risks alienating readers and advertisers. Tom Benson, owner of the New Orleans Saints football team, wrote a letter to the Newhouse family, the owners of Advance Publications. He pleaded with them to reconsider their plans, pointing out that the decision meant there would not be a printed newspaper the day after New Orleans hosts the 2013 Super Bowl.
Not every advertiser feels that way. Matt VanDyke, director of marketing communications for Ford Motor Company, said in an e-mail that ''print frequency of a local paper is not a major concern for a company like Ford, as there are so many different channels to reach consumers now.'' He added, ''In most cases, local newspapers also have online editions to help carry our messages and we -- and our dealers -- are often very active there as well.''
The experience at The Ann Arbor News, which is also owned by Advance, may offer the best insight for what is ahead. In 2009, Advance dissolved the Michigan paper and rebranded it as AnnArbor.com, a Web site that publishes a paper on Thursdays and Sundays.
Geoff Larcom, who worked at The Ann Arbor News for 25 years, said he was offered a job at the online entity. But his $60,000 salary would have been cut to $45,000, so he accepted a media relations job at Eastern Michigan University instead. He said that the newsroom had about 45 staff members when he left in 2009. It appears from the AnnArbor.com staff list that about two dozen reporters and editors remain. Mr. Larcom said the paper has gone through more layoffs.
The more noticeable changes have been in its content. Mr. Larcom noted that while the Web site AnnArbor.com had improved, the Web site and paper lost columns, features and investigative pieces.
''The dot-com is a much more news-hit-directed entity,'' Mr. Larcom said. ''It wants to get news up that will direct traffic. You don't get a broad feel for the town.''
Advance does not publish revenue figures for its individual news properties. But Sunday circulation for AnnArbor.com dropped to 34,923 in March 2012, compared with 54,207 in March 2009, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
Charles R. Eisendrath, director of the Knight Wallace Journalism Fellows at the University of Michigan, said that the quality declined so much that he no longer subscribed and did not need to read the paper at work.
''Is AnnArbor.com discussed much in Ann Arbor? No. Is it an authority? No,'' Mr. Eisendrath said. ''I don't trust anything that is done on the cheap.''
The Detroit News, which since 2010 has printed Monday through Saturday but delivers papers only on Thursday and Friday (with a special section delivered with The Detroit Free Press on Sundays), has tried to preserve some of the investigative journalism that the move to digital can take away.
Donald W. Nauss, the paper's managing editor, said that while he had to cut back suburban coverage, he tried to protect important beats and recently formed a three-person investigative team.
But it is not clear whether the new model is leading to profitability. A spokesman for the Detroit Media Partnership, which runs The News and The Free Press, said that advertising grew on publishing days after the paper changed its model. He declined to specify revenue figures or say whether there could be more layoffs.
Many newspaper executives argue that cutting back daily printing has to be part of a broader strategy. Paul V. Godfrey, the president and chief executive of Postmedia, which owns the three Canadian papers losing their Sunday editions, said that since he eliminated a Sunday paper in Montreal last year, advertisers moved their business to Saturdays and Mondays. He is also cutting staff and consolidating some editing and layout functions in Hamilton, Ontario.
''This is more of a reorganization,'' Mr. Godfrey said. ''We will continue to push and squeeze the sponge as much as we can get.''
Some newspaper chains think there are better ways to become profitable than printing on the days that attract the most advertisements. Robert J. Dickey, president of community publishing for Gannett, which owns 83 newspapers, said that he still saw demand from readers for a print product to read every day. He said he would consider changing that model only if he found more readers had switched to digital subscriptions or a three-day-a-week subscription.
''Those seven days build a reading habit,'' Mr. Dickey said. ''I want to know from the consumer they're less interested in a newspaper because they're going to use their tablet or PC at the office.''
It is unclear how closely Newhouse will apply its Ann Arbor model to the Alabama and New Orleans papers. At a recent meeting at The Birmingham News, newsroom employees were told the paper was still figuring out what may happen to salaries.
Staff members at The Times-Picayune expect that about one-third of the roughly 140-person newsroom will be cut. Brian Thevenot, a St. Louis Post-Dispatch business editor who left The Times-Picayune in 2009, said that reporters had already been told their priorities would shift to writing for the Web.
''They want them to produce more blog posts a day and not even worry about putting things together in a more thoughtful package,'' Mr. Thevenot said. ''The Times-Picayune has a sterling tradition of enterprising journalism. That's why people are so mad. That tradition is being thrown under the bus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In search of savings, some publishers are reducing the days of the week they deliver, or even print, their newspapers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 The Calgary Herald is planning to scrap its Sunday edition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED RHODES/CALGARY HERALD) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (91%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%)

COMPANY: OTTAWA CITIZEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



115 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be reported this week will include: factory orders for April (Monday); the Institute for Supply Management service index for May (Tuesday); revised first-quarter productivity and the Federal Reserve's beige book (Wednesday); consumer credit for April and weekly unemployment claims (Thursday); and the trade deficit and wholesale trade inventories for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include Dollar General (Monday); Hovnanian Enterprises (Wednesday); and Navistar International (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Louis J. Freeh, the bankruptcy trustee for MF Global Holdings, will report on his investigation of the firm's collapse; and E3, the four-day video-game industry trade show, will begin in Los Angeles (Monday). Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will testify before the Joint Economic Committee about the economic outlook (Thursday).
OVERSEAS The European Central Bank will issue a decision on interest rates; and Michel Barnier, Europe's commissioner for financial services, will publish a draft law on cross-border cooperation to handle failing banks (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TRADE SHOWS (53%); INTEREST RATES (51%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (57%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (57%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (57%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (57%); DG (NYSE) (57%); HOV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



116 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Contentious Hire Puts Spotlight on Black Coaches

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

 BODY:
For more than two decades, Fitzgerald Hill has fought to have minority and African-American head football coaches hired at predominantly white colleges and universities. In his new book, ''Crackback: How College Football Blindsides the Hopes of Black Coaches,'' written with the veteran journalist Mark Purdy, Hill, a former head coach at San Jose State, tells about those efforts. He uses ''crackback'' as a metaphor to describe what often happens to black candidates seeking head coaching jobs at predominantly white universities.
Last week Hill was surprised when Alcorn State, a historically black university in Lorman, Miss., announced the hiring of Jay Hopson as its coach. Hopson, 43, became the first white head football coach in the Southwestern Athletic Conference, which is made up of historically black colleges and universities.
Hill had mixed reactions to the hiring. 
''I'm not disappointed, it seems like H.B.C.U.s are saying, 'We're moving forward in the 21st century, and we hired the best coach,' '' said Hill, the president at Arkansas Baptist College. ''It's a very interesting twist.''
But Hill said he was disturbed by the implications. The hiring of a white football coach at a historically black college -- when white institutions have been slow to do the opposite -- could also be interpreted as a slap in the face.
''Are you telling me that there was not a qualified football coach anywhere in the United States of America they could have hired to lead that program?'' Hill asked, referring to African-American candidates. ''It's interesting to me that Alcorn felt they couldn't find an African-American to lead their program.''
Hill studied hiring trends of minority candidates and wrote his dissertation on their experiences.
''In my studies, people say the reason that they have not hired an African-American to lead their Division I program is because there aren't any qualified African-American coaches,'' he said. ''We couldn't find one -- that's been the story for the last 20 years. Alcorn is saying the same thing. If the majority schools can't find any and the H.B.C.U.s can't find any, where does the black coach go?''
Alcorn's president, Christopher Brown II, defended the selection.
He pointed out that of the thousands who coach football at the college and professional level, he received 51 applications for the position. ''There was a pool of candidates,'' he said. ''I had to look at who was in my pool. Do I start calling every head coach in America to say, 'Why didn't you apply for this job?' I don't think so.''
Brown said he picked the best candidate from among the applicants. Hopson has been an assistant at nine colleges, including Michigan and Mississippi. Last season, he was the defensive coordinator at Memphis but he resigned after two games.
''This hire is only for Alcorn, and this coach is only for Alcorn,'' Brown said. ''I'm not telling any other school to hire a particular coach. We hired the coach we wanted. This only works at our place at this moment in time because of who we are and because of who the candidate is.
''If this was any other school and any other candidate, this might not work.''
For African-American coaches looking for the plum, well-paying assistants' jobs, historically black colleges and universities often are not a prime destination. Especially not a school in rural Mississippi paying the head coach in the vicinity of $150,000 a year. Just as blue-chip black athletes flock to predominantly white intercollegiate programs, top black assistants aim for those bigger programs, not those at historically black colleges, which are underfinanced and lack the charisma and prestige. Those positions are not seen as steppingstones to the so-called big time.
With shrinking education and sports access and rising tuition, historically black colleges and universities continue to be safety nets and caldrons of opportunity for wider, more diverse groups of students, administrators, professors and athletes. The Bethune-Cookman women's golf team recently won the Division I PGA Minority Collegiate Golf Tournament with an all-white team, and many nonrevenue sports in the Southwestern Athletic Conference and the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference are full of white athletes seeking a chance to play. Hill's baseball team at Arkansas Baptist, a predominantly black college that participates in the N.A.I.A., is 65 percent white.
Ed Hill, the sports information director at Howard, a MEAC member, said the university's swimming and lacrosse coaches were white. ''I never look at them as white coaches at historically black colleges,'' he said. ''I judge them on how they run their programs and how successful they are. I've seen the changes taking place at some of the H.B.C.U. programs where some of the sports are dominated by Caucasians, but that doesn't bother me.
''It's kind of a change that's taking place, not dramatically, but there is a change. To be competitive on the field, these coaches are going after the best athletes. Those student-athletes now are looking at these H.B.C.U.'s not necessarily as O.K., that's an H.B.C.U. and it's for people of African-American persuasion. They're looking to become more diverse, to enrich their lives. They welcome the challenge.''
Brown, the Alcorn president, noted that Hopson was born near Lorman, in Vicksburg, Miss. ''He did not choose Alcorn because it was an H.B.C.U.,'' Brown said. ''He chose it because it was the university in the community he grew up in and he wanted to get back home.''
While we shouldn't read too much into the hiring of one coach (''No one decision can change history,'' Brown said), Alcorn's move could easily segue into a broader -- and much-needed -- conversation about the relevance and continued need for African-American-run organizations and institutions.
Brown received his B.S. in elementary education from South Carolina State -- a historically black university -- his master's from the University of Kentucky and his Ph.D. from Penn State. He has written extensively about historically black colleges and universities.
''I think these institutions collectively and individually are national treasures,'' he said. ''They are living monuments to a nation's history and the quest and desire for oppressed people in that nation to obtain an education and to grow their economic relevance in this society.'' He added, ''In a sense, these institutions are cultural artifacts and cultural repositories of that growth and development in the nation.''
Although Fitzgerald Hill said the historically black universities must recapture their communities, Brown said they must broaden and reinvent themselves and establish a new niche ''that makes us self-sustaining.''
''We have a choice collectively, particularly H.B.C.U.s,'' he said. ''We can either play violins and sing and mourn about how wrong we've been done over 150 years in the country or we can play a trumpet and talk about good things that happen on this campus and what happens moving forward.''
Trumpets and violins notwithstanding, the historically black colleges continue to provide an alternative educational experience for an expanded and diverse pool.
''Our institutions have to become multiple things to multiple people,'' Brown said. ''To the extent institutions do that well, I think they will be successful; to the extent they don't, they will continue to lose market share and continue to lose relevance. To the extent they go overboard, they will lose their identity completely.''
Two days after introducing Hopson as the coach, Brown announced that Fred McNair would serve as the offensive coordinator and assistant head coach. McNair is the older brother of Steve McNair, the former N.F.L. quarterback who had a legendary career at Alcorn. ''Some who were on the ledge are now trying to get back off the ledge and saying maybe it's not that bad,'' Brown said.
What historically black colleges and universities share with every other institution with a football program is that alumni want to win. At Alcorn, where winning records have been scarce in recent years and the team went 2-8 last season, there is renewed excitement, if not agreement, about the hire.
''This is the rallying cry they have needed,'' Brown said. ''A winning program calms a lot of frustrations. Winning makes everything better.''
That is generally true. Whether it will be true at Alcorn remains to be seen.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 09, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Sports of The Times column on Monday, about the reaction to the hiring by Alcorn State, a historically black university, of a white football coach, misidentified the position of Ed Hill at Howard University, another historically black university. He is the sports information director, not the athletic director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Quarterback Darius Smith of Alcorn State, a historically black university that recently hired Coach Jay Hopson, who is white. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC SHELTON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, VIA THE NATCHEZ DEMOCRAT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WRITERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ALCORN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); SOUTHWESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



117 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW YORK CITY The series begins a fifth season as LuAnn de Lesseps, Sonja Morgan and Ramona Singer are joined by three new cast mates: Aviva Drescher, the only born-and-bred New Yorker in the show's history and the national spokeswoman for One Step Ahead, an organization for children with amputations and other physical disabilities; Carole Radziwill, a journalist and the widow of the ABC News producer Anthony Radziwill; and Heather Thomson, a fashion designer and stylist and the founder of Yummie, a shapewear line. (Above from left, Aviva, LuAnn and Carole.) The drama begins as Sonja hosts an introduction party, and Aviva discovers that a couple of her fellow housewives have had relationships with her ex-husband. LuAnn and Ramona, meanwhile, resume the sparring that began last season, causing the three new colleagues to vow never to become ''mean girls.''
5 P.M. (Fox Business Network) MONEY WITH MELISSA FRANCIS In this new financial series Ms. Francis and experts debate issues facing American businesses and the economy. 
5:30 P.M. (HBO) THE ADJUSTMENT BUREAU (2011) Matt Damon, his toothy grin recalling a young Robert F. Kennedy, portrays David Norris, a Democratic son of Brooklyn and a favorite in the New York race for the United States Senate. That is, until a damaging photo from his past does in his campaign, and he meets Elise (Emily Blunt), a dancer who innocently causes him to veer off the path that a team of mystery men have secretly plotted for him. Their plan does not include Emily, or free will on David's part, for that matter. Now he must decide whether to give in to their machinations or reclaim his life. If George Nolfi, who directed this film and wrote the screenplay, based on a short story by Philip K. Dick, ''doesn't go deep in 'The Adjustment Bureau,' drilling down to where it hurts (he would rather entertain than pain you), he skates on the gray-blue surfaces of his film with confidence,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times.
8 P.M. (MSG) BROADWAY DANNY ROSE (1984) The network's ''Movie Mondays'' series kicks off a Woody Allen month with this comedy about a small-time agent (Mr. Allen) who gets mixed up with gangsters when he falls for a client's girlfriend (Mia Farrow). ''Radio Days'' (1987), Mr. Allen's homage to the golden days of radio, follows at 10.
8 P.M. (Fox) HELL'S KITCHEN There's fire in the hole as 18 new contestants compete for a head chef's position under the executive chef Kevin Hee at Gordon Ramsay Steak at Paris Las Vegas. But first they must create their signature dishes and hope that Mr. Ramsay doesn't spit them out. In Part 1 of the two-episode season premiere of ''MasterChef,'' at 9, nearly 30,000 amateur cooks are winnowed down as they present their specialties to Mr. Ramsay, Joe Bastianich and Graham Elliot.
8 P.M. (FX) YOU DON'T MESS WITH THE ZOHAN (2008) A former Israeli commando (Adam Sandler, right) sets out to achieve his dream of styling ''silky smooth'' hair in New York. Never mind that his feathering technique is outdated. Emmanuelle Chriqui plays the Palestinian who runs the salon where this would-be Paul Mitchell finds a job. Writing in The Times, A. O. Scott called the film ''the finest post-Zionist action-hairdressing sex comedy I have ever seen.''
8:30 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR The season wraps as Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May try to find out if car racing costs less than playing golf. Slash, of Guns N' Roses, and the Lotus Formula One driver Kimi Raikkonen are the stars in reasonably priced cars.
9 P.M. (Travel) ANTHONY BOURDAIN: NO RESERVATIONS Mr. Bourdain heads to Penang, Malaysia, where he samples rice and shrimp wrapped in banana leaves, fish-head curry and fresh snapper. He also discovers how Monkey Beach got its name.
9 P.M. (Lifetime) UNFAITHFUL (2002) Diane Lane, in an Oscar-nominated role, plays Connie Sumner, a housewife in Westchester County, N.Y., who surrenders to an erotic whim and embarks on an affair with a French rare-book dealer in Manhattan (Olivier Martinez, above left, with Ms. Lane) that spins out of control. Richard Gere is Connie's devoted husband. ''The saddest and most unsettling element of 'Unfaithful' is its portrayal of an affluent, articulate couple who for all their individual sensitivity can barely bring themselves to communicate on a less than superficial level,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times about this drama, adapted from Claude Chabrol's ''Femme Infidele.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GIESBRECHT/BRAVO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); WRITERS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); RED HAT INC (50%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



118 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: With Boos and Solyndra, Romney Plays Offense

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
At Mitt Romney's Boston headquarters, there was pure glee.
Word had just leaked that David Axelrod, the chief strategist for President Obama's campaign, would arrive the next morning to attack Mr. Romney on the steps of the State House, a half-mile away. The campaign burst into full heckling mode -- producing ''Go Back to Chicago!'' signs, rounding up a bubble machine and finding a spacesuit costume (''Astronomical debt!'').
''If ever there was a hanging curve ball, it was the idea of trying to pull off an Obama event within a short walk from the Romney headquarters,'' said Stuart Stevens, the chief strategist for the Romney campaign.
Drowning out Mr. Axelrod's news conference with loud boos -- a tactic that could be seen as undignified -- seemed to signal the kind of battle Mr. Romney's team intends to wage over the next five months: one that takes no skirmish lightly and provides no easy opportunities for Mr. Obama to make his case. 
Mr. Romney is already running the campaign he and top aides say they envisioned more than a year ago -- forcing Mr. Obama to defend his economic record in a gloomy environment.
Now, Mr. Romney plans to double down on the campaign's strategy of trying to keep the president on the defensive by refusing to let the focus stray from the struggles of average Americans, a theme that can resonate no matter the short-term trajectory of the economy. That task may be easier in the wake of Friday's weak jobs report, which provided fresh evidence that the economic recovery was slowing.
''This will be a long campaign filled with ups and downs,'' Matt Rhoades, the campaign manager, wrote in an e-mail. ''We understand we are going up against an incumbent president who is well financed and has an experienced team working for him. But Governor Romney has the better message and experience dealing with jobs and the economy.''
Mr. Romney had his awkward moments in May.
Even as he clinched the nomination last week, he spent a day defending his decision to hold a fancy Las Vegas fund-raiser with Donald Trump despite the real estate mogul's raising doubts about the authenticity of Mr. Obama's birth certificate. The president's attacks on Mr. Romney's experience at Bain Capital also generated headlines. And a Washington Post article about a bullying episode during Mr. Romney's high school days knocked the candidate off message.
No one in the Romney campaign is doing a victory dance. Veterans of past presidential campaigns know very well that neither team has yet to fully engage the billion-dollar campaign machines that will clash in spectacular fashion in the fall.
But the sense of optimism in Boston is palpable. Mr. Romney's aides say the Obama campaign has been less disciplined than they expected, moving from one line of attack to another in May. By contrast, Mr. Romney has released a series of television ads that aim to answer the question: What would a Romney presidency be like?
Mr. Romney's advisers believe the president's efforts to attack their candidate's business experience have been undermined by a series of Democratic defections from the approved party line. On Thursday, former President Bill Clinton became the latest Obama surrogate to go off message, proclaiming Mr. Romney's business record to be ''sterling.''
''Their own guys are out there saying, actually, Romney has a really good record. Why would we do anything to get in the way?'' said Sean Spicer, the Republican National Committee's communications director.
The results of recent polling in swing states have been mixed. Mr. Obama holds advantages in Ohio, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. But other surveys suggest that Mr. Romney has begun to close in on the president after a bitter and divisive nominating season in which Mr. Obama was clearly ahead in national polls. The most recent Gallup tracking poll has them essentially tied; some polls in battleground states like Florida and Virginia put the race very close.
The past week, aides said, highlighted the strengths of the Romney operation: discipline, efficiency and execution. In addition to quickly mobilizing to disrupt Mr. Axelrod's news conference, the campaign also managed to keep a surprise visit by Mr. Romney to the headquarters of Solyndra -- the failed solar-panel company that received millions of taxpayer dollars -- secret until minutes before the event in Fremont, Calif. (It was little noticed, however, occurring as former President George W. Bush was at the White House for the unveiling of his official portrait.)
Advisers to the Romney campaign said that after the bruising nominating contest, the team was eager to go on the offensive. It has increased its numbers so that overburdened aides doing the jobs of three or four people can now focus on their specific tasks.
On Friday, surrogates for the campaign descended on Boston for two days of meetings and training on how to best get out Mr. Romney's message.
''It's Mitt Romney 101,'' one of Mr. Romney's senior advisers said. ''You're getting them up to speed on all the key issues, and ultimately arming them for battle as well.''
Last Tuesday night -- as Mr. Romney clinched the Republican nomination -- a cadre of new team members had just arrived in Boston, and everyone went to celebrate at Boston Beer Works, where aides passed out baseball caps emblazoned with the words ''The Long Slog.''
But as soon as they got wind that Mr. Axelrod was coming to their proverbial backyard, there was, in the words of one adviser, a ''spontaneous combustion'' to protest and heckle his visit -- a spectacle the campaign said was a psychological victory that boosted morale and proved its willingness to battle the Obama campaign on any terms.
Still, the Obama campaign is intent on sticking to its narrative: that Mr. Romney's past leaves him vulnerable as a steward of a challenged economy.
''The central premise of Mitt Romney's candidacy has eroded over the past three weeks,'' said Ben LaBolt, an Obama campaign spokesman. ''He isn't the job creator he claimed to be. Governor Romney can't substantiate the number of jobs he supposedly created as a corporate buyout specialist because his goal was never job creation, it was profit maximization for himself and his partners.''
And indeed, the Romney campaign is not planning on celebrating its recent victories. On Thursday, en route to Solyndra, Mr. Romney made a rare visit to the press bus. As a joke, a photographer began blasting ''Born Free'' by Kid Rock -- a campaign theme song often played before Mr. Romney takes the stage at events -- as the candidate boarded the bus.
The entire press corps laughed, but Mr. Romney seemed not to notice. Later, when asked why Mr. Romney had not acknowledged the joke, several aides surmised that he was just ''very focused.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney in Fremont, Calif., on a surprise visit to the headquarters of Solyndra, a failed solar-panel company that received millions in taxpayer dollars. At left, an Obama rally in Boston that David Axelrod led and Romney workers booed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



119 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Intrigue in Karzai Family As an Afghan Era Closes

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the end in sight for Hamid Karzai's days in office as Afghanistan's president, members of his family are trying to protect their status, weighing how to hold on to power while secretly fighting among themselves for control of the fortune they have amassed in the last decade.
One brother, Qayum Karzai, is mulling a run for the presidency when his brother steps down in 2014. Other brothers have been battling over the crown jewel in the family empire -- the largest private residential development in Afghanistan. The conflict over the project, known as Aino Mena, has provoked accusations of theft and extortion, even reports of an assassination plot.
''It's family,'' Qayum Karzai said. ''They get upset, and over time they get over it. I hope they get over it.'' 
One Karzai brother is also said to have imprisoned a longtime Karzai aide in an effort to make him disclose the whereabouts of money and assets that relatives suspect were hidden by Ahmed Wali Karzai, another of President Karzai's brothers and the political boss of southern Afghanistan who was assassinated last year. He was often accused of benefiting from the Afghan opium trade and an array of corrupt deals, though he denied such claims.
The looming withdrawal of American and NATO troops by 2014 from the still unresolved war, along with President Karzai's coming exit, is causing anxiety among the Afghan elite who have been among the war's biggest beneficiaries, enriching themselves from American military contracts, insider business deals with foreign companies, government corruption and narcotics trafficking.
''If you are one of the Afghan oligarchs, where you put your money and where you live is an open question now,'' Seth Jones, an analyst at the RAND Corporation, said. ''That means you are thinking about moving your money and finding a backup option about where to live.''
The president's family -- many of whom are American citizens who returned to Afghanistan after an American-led coalition toppled the Taliban in 2001 and brought Mr. Karzai to power -- are among those who have prospered the most, by the accounts of many Afghan businessmen and government insiders.
Several political observers in Kabul said any candidacy by Qayum Karzai, a longtime Maryland resident who has served in the Afghan Parliament, would be a long shot because of the nation's fatigue with Hamid Karzai and widespread resentment over the rampant corruption that has tainted his government.
Even some of the Karzai family's own business partners are among the critics.
''We have an illegitimate and irresponsible government because of Karzai and his family,'' said Abdullah Nadi, an Afghan-American developer from Virginia who is a partner in the Aino Mena housing development, but who is trying to get out of the venture.
While exploiting their opportunities in Afghanistan, the extended Karzai family has for years simmered with tensions, jealousies, business rivalries, blood feuds and even accusations of murder. With the often-fractious family, it can be difficult to discern the truth, but everyone agrees that the conflict over control of its empire can be traced back to the death in July 2011 of Ahmed Wali Karzai, who had risen from working as a waiter in Chicago to become one of the most powerful men in Afghanistan, serving as the chairman of the Kandahar Provincial Council.
His murder, by an Afghan thought to be a loyal supporter, left a power vacuum in Kandahar -- and in the Karzai family. President Karzai appointed another brother, Shah Wali Karzai, to take on their slain brother's role as head of the Populzai, the Karzai's family tribe.
No one expected much from him. Quiet and reserved, he was largely overshadowed by Ahmed Wali Karzai, and even lived in his more powerful brother's compound in Kandahar.
But Shah Wali Karzai has been transformed in the past year. In addition to his role as tribal chief, he serves as project manager of Aino Mena, the sprawling residential development on the outskirts of Kandahar being developed by AFCO, a corporation owned by another brother, Mahmoud Karzai, and his four partners.
They have built 3,000 homes, with plans for a total of 14,700. The developers are building on 10,000 acres, land that Afghan military officials have claimed was illegally seized from the Ministry of Defense.
Emboldened after Ahmed Wali Karzai's death, Shah Wali Karzai appeared no longer satisfied to serve just as an employee at Aino Mena. At some point in the past few months, he created his own corporation in Kandahar and then secretly moved all of the cash from the housing development's bank accounts to those of his new business.
According to several AFCO partners, Shah Wali Karzai had transferred about $55 million. ''He simply opened another company, and put the money in that company,'' Mahmoud Karzai said in an interview.
Mr. Nadi, one of the partners in Aino Mena, accused Shah Wali Karzai of forging his signature on documents to make it appear as if he had approved the creation of Shah Wali Karzai's company as the new corporate parent of Aino Mena. ''I had no clue what the hell was going on,'' Mr. Nadi said in an interview.
When Mahmoud Karzai discovered what his brother had done, he demanded that Shah Wali return the money. But Shah Wali refused, and instead insisted that he be made a partner in Aino Mena. Mahmoud and his partners refused, and the two sides settled into a bitter stalemate.
Shah Wali Karzai does not deny transferring the money to his corporation. But he justified his actions by saying that he is protecting the money for the sake of the people of Kandahar. He has told others in Kandahar that if he had not taken the money, Mahmoud Karzai could have moved it to secret bank accounts in Dubai. Aino Mena would then have risked failure just like Kabul Bank, another of Mahmoud Karzai's business ventures, he argued.
Mahmoud Karzai was a key figure in the scandal surrounding the near-collapse of the bank, which was Afghanistan's largest, in 2010. It lost about $900 million in insider deals, much of which is believed to have ended up in secret bank accounts in Dubai. Last year, a federal grand jury in New York began a criminal investigation into Mahmoud Karzai's business activities in Afghanistan, pursuing accusations of tax evasion, racketeering and extortion. No charges have been brought against Mahmoud Karzai, who is a United States citizen.
''The money belongs to the people of Kandahar,'' Shah Wali Karzai said in a statement in response to questions about transferring the housing development funds. ''They paid much of that money for the infrastructure at Aino Mena.''
He added, ''When I became project manager, they owed money to the bank and local contractors, and all the money was paid off as I turned around that company from an almost bankrupt one to a successful one.''
Mahmoud Karzai said he and his partners have filed complaints with the Afghan attorney general, accusing Shah Wali Karzai of stealing their money and using extortion to gain a partnership stake in Aino Mena. The attorney general has refused to move against Shah Wali Karzai, apparently unwilling to get involved in what he sees as a family battle.
Qayum Karzai said he attempted to negotiate a settlement, but has backed off. ''Tempers were flaring up,'' he said in an interview. ''I tried to mediate, but I failed.''
President Karzai has been reluctant to take sides in the family dispute, though his government has been drawn into the matter. The Afghan Central Bank has finally intervened, freezing the bank accounts of Shah Wali Karzai's company. Mahmoud Karzai said a deal was in the works, but other partners said the dispute had not been resolved.
In the midst of the conflict, Afghan security officials uncovered a plot to kill Mahmoud Karzai. About two months ago, the National Directorate of Security, the Afghan domestic intelligence agency, identified at least three Afghans, including two former employees of the Aino Mena development, who had been involved in a plot to kill Mahmoud Karzai and possibly others. One man was arrested and later released. The two former Aino Mena employees implicated in the plot had both been fired by Mahmoud Karzai.
Afghan security officials have not accused Shah Wali Karzai of any involvement in the scheme. He denies any involvement in it, and Mahmoud Karzai said in an interview, ''I refuse to believe that my brother had anything to do with it.''
Family members said that Shah Wali Karzai had also been trying to unlock the secrets of his dead brother's fortune.
After Ahmed Wali Karzai was killed, his most trusted aide, Zamarai -- like many Afghans, he uses only one name -- moved to Dubai. Reports of his lavish lifestyle there fed suspicions within the family that Zamarai had access to riches hidden by Ahmed Wali Karzai, perhaps through accounts and properties that had been placed in Zamarai's name.
When Zamarai returned recently to Kandahar -- some family members claim he was lured back by Aziz Karzai, Afghanistan's ambassador to Russia and President Karzai's uncle, an account the envoy flatly denies -- he was detained by security personnel working for Shah Wali Karzai, according to relatives.
Mahmoud Karzai says he believes that Zamarai knows the whereabouts of ''one or two million dollars.'' Others familiar with the matter say that Shah Wali Karzai suspects that Zamarai knows about hundreds of millions of dollars more hidden in Dubai and elsewhere, including assets in Afghan businesses and real estate.
Zamarai is being held at Sarposa Prison in Kandahar, where he is guarded by Shah Wali Karzai's security personnel rather than the regular prison guards, according to several people familiar with the matter but who asked not to be identified for fear of retribution from the Karzai family.
He has not been charged with any crime.
When asked through Gerald Posner, a Karzai family lawyer, about Zamarai and whether he is holding him, Shah Wali Karzai declined to comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Karzais in a copy of an undated photo. Top row: Shah Wali Karzai
Ahmed Wali Karzai
Hamid Karzai, now president
and Abdul Wali Karzai. Bottom row: Abdul Ahmad Karzai
Qayum Karzai
Abdul Ahad Karzai, the patriarch
and Mahmoud Karzai.
After Ahmed Wali Karzai, far left, was murdered last year, President Karzai appointed another brother, Shah Wali Karzai, center photograph, as head of the family's tribe. He and his brother Mahmoud Karzai, far right, have become bitter business rivals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLAUDDIN KHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
I. SAMEEM/E.P.A.
 LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (71%); EXTORTION (69%); OPIUM (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); LARCENY & THEFT (55%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



120 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Recall Battle In Wisconsin May Snarl Obama Camp

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DE PERE, Wis. -- President Obama holds multiple paths to re-election, with a handful of battleground states being able to slip away without leading to his defeat. But each possible outcome on his campaign map has always shared a common trait: winning Wisconsin.
A Republican resurgence here, which has burst into full view as the party determinedly defends its sitting governor in a rare recall election, is spilling into the presidential race. The result is poised to shape the general election fight between Mr. Obama and Mitt Romney, who intends to add Wisconsin to his list of targeted states.
The president is bracing for a difficult set of challenges, which began last week when an uptick in the unemployment rate provided a fresh reminder of the beleaguered domestic economy and the deepening financial uncertainties abroad. A Republican victory here could set off a wave of adjustments in the lineup of swing states. Even before the outcome of Tuesday's vote is known, Democrats are warning that Wisconsin is far from a surefire win in November.
''We are tremendously polarized,'' Mike Tate, the Wisconsin Democratic chairman, said in an interview on Sunday. ''We're going to remain a very competitive state heading into the fall.'' 
While the presidential campaign is well under way across the country, the contest has been overshadowed here by the effort to recall Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican. The election, a culmination of more than a year of bitter unrest, has created a combustible political climate that defies easy characterization in the five months leading up to the general election.
But Mr. Romney is within striking distance of Mr. Obama in Wisconsin, according to several public and private polls and interviews with strategists in both parties, and he intends to start building a campaign operation off the robust get-out-the-vote machinery assembled for Mr. Walker. The decision by the Romney campaign to try to contest Wisconsin is the first sign that Republicans are eager to expand their targets of opportunity and compete on terrain that not long ago seemed squarely on Mr. Obama's side.
''If we win on Tuesday, this is going to be a shot in the arm and adrenaline that we didn't expect to have,'' said former Gov. Tommy G. Thompson, a Republican who is seeking the party's nomination to run for Senate. ''It is going to spark fervor in the presidential race.''
Mr. Obama has purposefully tried to keep his distance from the recall fight, which has unfolded with all the intensity and acrimony of a presidential campaign within the borders of Wisconsin. The mayor of Milwaukee, Tom Barrett, is the Democratic candidate trying to replace Mr. Walker, who ignited a furor by cutting collective bargaining rights for most of the state's public workers. It is a rematch of the 2010 governor's race, which Mr. Barrett lost to Mr. Walker.
The White House has showed tepid support for the recall. Democratic advisers thought the effort would take time and money away from the presidential campaign and poison the pool of independent voters who were a key part of Mr. Obama's success here four years ago, when he carried the state by 14 points and swept 59 of 72 counties.
The president, who campaigned for Mr. Barrett two years ago, has been conspicuously absent this time. His aides argued that he had a full plate and did not have time to come. But Republicans were quick to point out that Mr. Obama was only a helicopter ride on Marine One away from the state on Friday when he visited Minneapolis, and again on Saturday after spending the morning in his old neighborhood in Chicago.
''He couldn't drive 15 miles and show his face here?'' said Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, who spent the weekend in his native Wisconsin to stir the pot and campaign for Mr. Walker. ''There are going to be a lot of Democrats in Wisconsin who are going to be pretty disappointed with their president who did not come in and help out.''
While there was more talk of Mr. Obama's absence among Republicans than Democrats here, several Democratic officials said the president was wise to stay away.
''He's got a very big job as president,'' said former Gov. Jim Doyle, a Democrat and one of Mr. Obama's earliest supporters four years ago. ''As important as the recall is, in the big picture, it's much more important to get Barack Obama re-elected.''
The recall election has created bruised feelings and deepened the partisan divide in the state, which was on full display Sunday at the Zirbel Dairy Farms near De Pere, in northeast Wisconsin, where both candidates in the recall race crossed paths as they courted voters.
At the Brown County Dairy Breakfast, a celebration that drew hundreds of people here on a sun-splashed morning, Laurie Gilson groaned aloud from her spot in line when she looked up and saw that Mr. Walker was dishing out scrambled eggs and conversation. She snapped to her sister: ''I just can't look at him. He'd better not say hi to me.''
To avert a confrontation, Ms. Gilson, 52, moved to another line. She said she was furious over the governor's attempts to ''destroy the teachers union.'' She also said that the controversy had shaken the political system and that she feared the president, whom she supported in 2008, would face an uphill battle.
''I think it will be hard for Obama to get re-elected,'' said Ms. Gilson, who works at Shopko, a discount store. ''I hope he gets back in, but the economy is in the toilet and too many people don't want him around anymore.''
An hour later, when it was Mr. Barrett's turn to stand in the breakfast line, he encountered several people who recoiled. One man said he was a Walker supporter and turned away, prompting Mr. Barrett to extend his hand anyway and declare, ''In America we can still shake hands, can't we?''
When the recall election is over, the political conversation here will quickly turn to the race for the White House. Ronald Reagan was the last Republican to carry Wisconsin in a presidential race, in 1984, but George W. Bush came within a hairsbreadth in 2000 and 2004.
While Mr. Romney won the Republican primary in Wisconsin, he has largely focused his efforts elsewhere. Party officials here say they expect him to make a visit soon. But whether or not he is successful on Tuesday, Mr. Walker said, the enthusiasm from his race will not automatically transfer to Mr. Romney.
''For them to make inroads in this state,'' Mr. Walker said, ''they have to talk about what they're going to do to take on the powerful special interests to ultimately make the tough decisions that are more about the next generation than just the next election.''
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said Republicans were no longer in a ''defensive crouch'' after losing the state so soundly in the last presidential race. But the state is known for its share of ticket-splitters, he said, and he has bumped into some people supporting Mr. Walker who may still back Mr. Obama.
''There's a slice of those Obama-Walker voters who think the recall is wrong, improper, a waste of money and an overreaction,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''But I see an awakening of citizens participating. It will show that our state is really in play in November.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who is fighting a recall, campaigned in Evansville on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KLEIN/MILWAUKEE JOURNAL-SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SCOTT WALKER (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



121 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Losses Were Withheld Before Merger

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Days before Bank of America shareholders approved the bank's $50 billion purchase of Merrill Lynch in December 2008, top bank executives were advised that losses at the investment firm would most likely hammer the combined companies' earnings in the years to come. But shareholders were not told about the looming losses, which would prompt a second taxpayer bailout of $20 billion, leaving them instead to rely on rosier projections from the bank that the deal would make money relatively soon after it was completed.
What Bank of America's top executives, including its chief executive then, Kenneth D. Lewis, knew about Merrill's vast mortgage losses and when they knew it emerged in court documents filed Sunday evening in a shareholder lawsuit being heard in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
The disclosure, coming to light in private litigation, is likely to reignite concerns that federal regulators and prosecutors have not worked hard enough to hold key executives accountable for their actions during the financial crisis. 
The filing in the shareholder suit included sworn testimony from Mr. Lewis in which he concedes that before Bank of America stockholders voted to approve the deal he had received loss estimates relating to the Merrill deal that were far greater than reflected in the figures that had appeared in the proxy documents filed with regulators. Shareholders rely on statements made in proxy filings to decide whether to approve transactions their companies have proposed, and companies must disclose all facts that could be meaningful for shareholders trying to decide how to vote on a deal.
The bank's purchase of Merrill, struck during the depths of the financial crisis, was the culmination of an acquisition binge by Mr. Lewis that transformed Bank of America from its base in North Carolina into a financial behemoth that could compete head-to-head with the biggest institutions on Wall Street.
But the transaction, which was ultimately encouraged by government officials who were concerned about the impact on the financial system of a foundering Merrill Lynch, also saddled the bank with billions in losses and required an additional $20 billion from taxpayers on top of an earlier bailout it received in 2008.
Bank of America officials declined to comment. Andrew J. Ceresney, a lawyer for Mr. Lewis, also declined to comment on the filing, but he referred to a motion filed on behalf of Mr. Lewis on Sunday contending that the former chief executive did not disclose the losses because he had been advised by the bank's law firm, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, and by other bank executives that it was not necessary.
In a deposition taken on March 27 of this year, Mr. Lewis discussed the tumultuous period between the announcement of the merger in September 2008 and the shareholders' vote on the deal on Dec. 5, 2008.
The suit, filed on behalf of Bank of America shareholders, asserts that the bank's executives misled them by not disclosing Merrill's mounting mortgage losses in proxy documents recommending approval of the deal.
For example, the proxy statement estimated that the purchase of Merrill Lynch would reduce earnings by only 3 percent in 2009, would not hurt the bank's profits in 2010 and might actually add a bit to them.
Mr. Lewis echoed this view at the meeting where shareholders voted on the deal. When asked whether the transaction would dilute Bank of America's earnings in coming years or add to its income, he referred the questioner to the proxy statement.
But in sworn testimony taken in the case, Mr. Lewis testified that by the time shareholders voted, the merger's effect on Bank of America's profit outlook had changed. According to the court filing, Mr. Lewis confirmed that the bank ''expected the merger to be more than 13 percent dilutive in 2009 and 2.8 percent dilutive in 2010.''
Asked by Steven B. Singer, a lawyer at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann who represents the plaintiffs, whether the figures shareholders had received in the proxy statement were no longer accurate on the date of the merger vote, Mr. Lewis said: ''They were not those numbers, no.''
Mr. Singer declined to comment on the filing. But the document submitted to the court said that Mr. Lewis's ''sworn admissions leave no genuine dispute that his statement at the December 5 shareholder meeting reiterating the bank's prior accretion and dilution calculations was materially false when made.''
Mr. Lewis himself is a defendant in the suit, as are Bank of America board members who recommended that shareholders approve the Merrill merger.
E-mail messages uncovered in the litigation show that Merrill's losses had severely damaged its financial position before the shareholder vote. Indeed, the court filing notes, by Nov. 26, the bank ordered Merrill to liquidate hundreds of billions of dollars in assets. These asset sales significantly reduced the combined companies' future earnings power by at least $1 billion a year, Jeffrey J. Brown, the bank's former treasurer, testified.
On Dec. 3, two days before the vote, Mr. Lewis met with top executives of the bank and the investment firm to assess Merrill's fourth-quarter losses, the filing says. Both companies determined that the loss for the period would be $14 billion before tax, or $9 billion after tax. Shortly after the meeting, Mr. Brown urged Joe L. Price, Bank of America's chief financial officer at the time, to disclose Merrill's losses, given their size, the filing said. When Mr. Brown received resistance, he warned Mr. Price that the failure to disclose ''could be a criminal offense, stating that he did not want to be 'talking through a glass wall over a telephone' if no disclosure was made,'' the filing noted.
A lawyer for Mr. Price did not immediately respond to an e-mail request seeking comment Sunday night.
Merrill's problems also forced Bank of America to raise $9 billion in a debt offering just days before its shareholders were to vote on the deal, the court filing shows. In an e-mail sent on Dec. 4, 2008, Mr. Brown told senior Bank of America executives that this and other debt offerings were the result of Merrill's hemorrhaging, and worsened the ''dilution impacts'' of the merger. ''It hurts your #s I know,'' he wrote, the filing shows. ''But this is real,'' he added, ''and should be associated with the transaction.''
Two business days after Bank of America shareholders approved the deal, the bank's board met and received details of the $14 billion pretax fourth-quarter loss. The board also learned that the deal would be far more damaging to the bank's earnings than had been publicly disclosed.
One bank executive attending that meeting was Timothy Mayopoulos, then Bank of America's general counsel. In testimony noted in the court filing, Mr. Mayopoulos expressed surprise at the size of the loss, which he said he had not been told about. He testified that he tried to speak with Mr. Price about possibly disclosing the losses but that Mr. Price was not available.
The next day, the filing noted, Mr. Mayopoulos was ''fired without explanation and immediately escorted from the premises, without being given the opportunity to collect his personal belongings.''
On Jan. 1, 2009, Mr. Lewis announced the completion of the Merrill deal. ''We created this new organization because we believe that wealth management and corporate and investment banking represent significant growth opportunities, especially when combined with our leading capabilities in consumer and commercial banking,'' he said. ''We are now uniquely positioned to win market share and expand our leadership position in markets around the world.''
Merrill has more recently made positive contributions to Bank of America's bottom line, but just weeks after Mr. Lewis's announcement, when Merrill's staggering fourth-quarter losses were disclosed along with the taxpayer bailout, Bank of America's shares lost more than half of their value in four trading days. Shareholders lost roughly $50 billion in market value.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Court filings indicate Kenneth D. Lewis was told that the Merrill Lynch deal would lead to huge losses at Bank of America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON MICZEK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (93%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); TESTIMONY (74%); DEPOSITIONS (74%); WITNESSES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



122 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: This Republican Economy

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
What should be done about the economy? Republicans claim to have the answer: slash spending and cut taxes. What they hope voters won't notice is that that's precisely the policy we've been following the past couple of years. Never mind the Democrat in the White House; for all practical purposes, this is already the economic policy of Republican dreams.
So the Republican electoral strategy is, in effect, a gigantic con game: it depends on convincing voters that the bad economy is the result of big-spending policies that President Obama hasn't followed (in large part because the G.O.P. wouldn't let him), and that our woes can be cured by pursuing more of the same policies that have already failed. 
For some reason, however, neither the press nor Mr. Obama's political team has done a very good job of exposing the con.
What do I mean by saying that this is already a Republican economy? Look first at total government spending -- federal, state and local. Adjusted for population growth and inflation, such spending has recently been falling at a rate not seen since the demobilization that followed the Korean War.
How is that possible? Isn't Mr. Obama a big spender? Actually, no; there was a brief burst of spending in late 2009 and early 2010 as the stimulus kicked in, but that boost is long behind us. Since then it has been all downhill. Cash-strapped state and local governments have laid off teachers, firefighters and police officers; meanwhile, unemployment benefits have been trailing off even though unemployment remains extremely high.
Over all, the picture for America in 2012 bears a stunning resemblance to the great mistake of 1937, when F.D.R. prematurely slashed spending, sending the U.S. economy -- which had actually been recovering fairly fast until that point -- into the second leg of the Great Depression. In F.D.R.'s case, however, this was an unforced error, since he had a solidly Democratic Congress. In President Obama's case, much though not all of the responsibility for the policy wrong turn lies with a completely obstructionist Republican majority in the House.
That same obstructionist House majority effectively blackmailed the president into continuing all the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy, so that federal taxes as a share of G.D.P. are near historic lows -- much lower, in particular, than at any point during Ronald Reagan's presidency.
As I said, for all practical purposes this is already a Republican economy.
As an aside, I think it's worth pointing out that although the economy's performance has been disappointing, to say the least, none of the disasters Republicans predicted have come to pass. Remember all those assertions that budget deficits would lead to soaring interest rates? Well, U.S. borrowing costs have just hit a record low. And remember those dire warnings about inflation and the ''debasement'' of the dollar? Well, inflation remains low, and the dollar has been stronger than it was in the Bush years.
Put it this way: Republicans have been warning that we were about to turn into Greece because President Obama was doing too much to boost the economy; Keynesian economists like myself warned that we were, on the contrary, at risk of turning into Japan because he was doing too little. And Japanification it is, except with a level of misery the Japanese never had to endure.
So why don't voters know any of this?
Part of the answer is that far too much economic reporting is still of the he-said, she-said variety, with dueling quotes from hired guns on either side. But it's also true that the Obama team has consistently failed to highlight Republican obstruction, perhaps out of a fear of seeming weak. Instead, the president's advisers keep turning to happy talk, seizing on a few months' good economic news as proof that their policies are working -- and then ending up looking foolish when the numbers turn down again. Remarkably, they've made this mistake three times in a row: in 2010, 2011 and now once again.
At this point, however, Mr. Obama and his political team don't seem to have much choice. They can point with pride to some big economic achievements, above all the successful rescue of the auto industry, which is responsible for a large part of whatever job growth we are managing to get. But they're not going to be able to sell a narrative of overall economic success. Their best bet, surely, is to do a Harry Truman, to run against the ''do-nothing'' Republican Congress that has, in reality, blocked proposals -- for tax cuts as well as more spending -- that would have made 2012 a much better year than it's turning out to be.
For that, in the end, is the best argument against Republicans' claims that they can fix the economy. The fact is that we have already seen the Republican economic future -- and it doesn't work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012



123 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Heterogeneity

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Will the rapidly developing political, religious and demographic changes in the United States transform the two-party system? 

 BODY:
Between 1948, when American National Election Studies first surveyed the electorate, and 1970, the percentage of voters who were white didn't change much, ranging from 89 to 91 percent.
ANES didn't begin breaking out data on mainline and evangelical Protestants until 1960. Traditional mainline Protestants - including Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Methodists and Lutherans - constituted a decisive plurality of the electorate at 45 percent. Evangelicals stood at 29 percent and Catholics at 20 percent. Only one percent defined their religion as "none."
By 2008, whites had fallen to 74 percent of the electorate. The following chart, produced by Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory, shows the minority ("other non-white" and "black") share of the vote from 1992 (13 percent) to 2008 (26 percent), with an estimate for 2020 (34 percent).
In a study published in February 2008, the Pew Forum on Religious and Public Life found that mainline Protestants, once the dominant force not only in politics but in the national culture, had fallen to 18.1 percent of the electorate, behind both Protestant evangelicals and Catholics - and barely ahead of the fast-growing category of "unaffiliated," which reached 16.1 percent.
Although a majority of the American population today decisively self-identifies as Christian, at 78.4 percent, America and its politics have in fact become vastly more heterogeneous. The connection between religion and politics is very complicated, of course. On the one hand, many people do not feel their religious beliefs and their political beliefs are directly related, but for others the former determines the latter. Not to mention the fact that the tenets of Christianity are themselves subject to partisan and subjective interpretation.
Take a provocative query posed in an April 2011 survey by the Public Religion Research Institute: 
Is capitalism compatible with Christian values?
By two to one, 53-26, Democrats believe that capitalism and Christianity are not compatible. Republicans, in contrast, believe there is no conflict, by a 46-37 margin. Tea Party supporters are even more adamant, believing that capitalism and Christian values are compatible by a 56-35 margin.
These very different notions of what it means to hold Christian values correlate, in turn, with beliefs concerning core political issues of equality and social mobility. In September 2011, the Public Religion Research Institute asked respondents to choose between these two ideas:
a) "one of the big problems of this country is that we don't give everyone an equal chance in life"
b) "it's not really that big a problem if some people have more of a chance in life than others."
The results again show sharp differences of opinion tied to partisan identification:
Some issues are less confounding. For example, a January, 2012 P.R.R.I. poll question on same-sex marriage revealed a wide split between religiously observant and non-observant constituencies.
These findings reflect - and drive - the growing polarization of American politics.
But here's the surprising thing. Given the scope of the demographic and ideological transformation of the United States over the last six decades, it's interesting that the two-party system has not imploded. In the face of sustained centrifugal upheaval - including a proliferation of religious affiliations, the enfranchisement of substantial minority populations, rising levels of economic inequality, and the belief among a plurality of voters, 44 percent, that our economic system (capitalism) and the religious identification of three-quarters of the electorate (Christianity) are not compatible - we still are a nation of Republicans and Democrats.
How will the center-right adapt when it becomes clear that its dependence on white voters threatens its ability to compete nationally? As presently constituted, the Republicans have become the party of the married white Christian past. This stance proved effective in the 1970s and 1980s, and again in 1994 and 2010, but time is running out. Will the party, of necessity, become more amenable to religious diversity? Will conservatives embrace immigration reform? Will Republicans try to drive a wedge between Hispanic and black voters in an effort to fracture the Democratic coalition? And will Republicans look to a more subdued form of capitalist competition?
How will the Democratic Party cope with the fast approaching moment when non-Hispanic whites become a minority of its voters? Will Democratic presidential nominating contests become explicitly racial and ethnic? Will religious and a larger role for the state in the economy become explicit hallmarks of the center-left?
While a number of political and demographic analysts see current trends giving the Democratic Party an inevitable advantage in the near future, the history of two-party competition - and the continuing 50-50 split in American politics - suggests that the out party, sooner or later, responds to negative feedback and changes course. The only guarantee? Neither party's future is assured.

        
The Untold Future of American Politics
        
G.O.P. Nightmare Charts
        
Granny Loves Gingrich
        
Down With Religion?
        
Believing in Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) demographics; polling; polls; religion in politics; the future of the Democratic Party; the future of the Republican Party; Christians and Christianity; Polls and Public Opinion; Democratic Party; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



124 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Settling Afghan Disputes, Where Custom Holds Sway

BYLINE: ZACHARY BOOKMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A member of an Afghanistan anticorruption task force tours a rural community, where disputes are resolved the same way they were in the 20th century. 

 BODY:
From the Chinook helicopter, I saw villages dotting valleys and hugging small brown streams. Every house in Shah Wali Kot district was constructed of mud, until more modern structures emerged on the approach to Kandahar Airfield. Rugged hills and steep passes divided villages. The challenge to Afghanistan's stability appeared self-evident: How can the state project justice where it can't reach?
In Kabul, at NATO headquarters and surrounding installations, rule of law efforts focus on the provision of formal justice. The coalition trains Afghan police officers, prosecutors, judges, even law students. Attorneys from the Department of Justice at the United States Embassy, British counterparts and members of the anticorruption task torce (where I work) press the Afghan government on major corruption cases. 
In rural communities, where four-fifths of Afghans live, dispute resolution functions much as it did in the 20th century and before.
Elders use consensus, not trials. Where the international community applies Western legal models, shadow governments occasionally spring up. In some areas, Taliban judges ride in on motorbikes and administer swift decisions in a sort of circuit court. 
When I arrived at the governor's compound that day in north-central Kandahar, bearded men conducted a shura -- a consensus-based, legislative meeting of local elders. They sat outside in a gravelly courtyard, eating chicken, potatoes, rice and naan bread. Although the Americans had provided a building, the men remarked that it was too cold in the winter and too warm in the summer. 
No saranwal (prosecutor), judge or hoqooq (arbitrator) worked in Shah Wali Kot. I asked the governor how citizens among the 710 villages, which contain roughly 40,000 to 50,000 people, settle disputes there. The governor stated that he decided all major disputes. He explained that the provincial governor in Kandahar rejected his nomination for a hoqooq. The reason: the candidate lacked a high school diploma and therefore did not qualify under a merit-based hiring plan promoted by the coalition.
I asked if disputants ever disobeyed decisions. The governor said no, because the process seeks consensus and includes consultation with villagers. If participants are not happy with an order, the governor sends the disputants to Kandahar City. He referred 100 cases there last year. Local advisers told me that the court failed to decide any of the cases sent to it last year from Shah Wali Kot. There are long delays, they said, and judges turn litigants away without a hearing. I asked the governor if villagers ever refused to go to Kandahar City. He said that no one rejects his authority. 
As we toured the governor's compound, colleagues from the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development asked about internationally funded construction on future accommodations for judges. The main building where we had met and had lunch was ramshackle but functional. The building next to it, intended to house a forthcoming "formal justice center," was in a similar state; a dozen Afghans were in the main room of the two-room building, praying and sleeping. 
At the corner of the grounds stood a structure with wooden scaffolding hugging half-finished walls. Incoming judges and saranwals currently in training programs in Kabul were to live there. The governor worried that they will not show up for fear of poor security. We passed a garden with labels for cabbage, lettuce and tomatoes. 
From a tactical operations center in an adjacent combat outpost, a company of Special Forces conducted rule of law "white zone" operations: clearing villages of Taliban, persuading elders to seek formal justice, and then handing the territory over to the army before moving on to new villages. I asked if their efforts endured. The results were mixed, I was told. 
The day's tour and the return flight over jutting snow-covered peaks left me unsettled. As evidenced by unused judicial buildings, international rule of law efforts seem disconnected from the needs and realities of rural Afghanistan. 
Afghans already resolve the vast majority of their disputes through existing, nonadversarial systems. Communities have settled disputes for centuries with traditions and customary law. Decisions go uncodified, and human rights abuses persist, particularly against women. But rather than promote a formal, foreign system, the coalition might achieve more by incrementally improving these established methods. 
Rural Afghans jealously guard their way of life against government encroachment. And after 35 years of war, they may want justice to grow from stability rather than the other way around. 

        
Riots Across Afghanistan Follow Mishandling of Korans on Bagram Air Base
        
NATO Allies Have a Head Start on Afghan Withdrawal
        
Poll Shows Afghans' Frustration With Corruption
        
Airstrike Complicates Afghanistan Fight
        
A Quiet, Tense Night for a First Patrol

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Afghanistan; corruption; NATO

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (95%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



125 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Greece's Energy Uncertainties

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Greece's natural gas company threatens to cut supplies to electricity producers if they fail to settle their arrears, raising the possibility of rotating power cuts by grid operators. 

 BODY:
Greece's debt crisis threatens to turn into an energy emergency, with the state natural gas company threatening to cut supplies to electricity producers if they fail to settle their arrears. [EurActiv.com]
Environmentalists organize a coordinated online protest called "BlackOutSpeakOut," urging groups to darken their Web sites to oppose the Canadian Parliament's move to weaken environmental protections in a sweeping budget bill. [BlackOutSpeakOut] 
Because of rising temperatures, shrubs have been growing into trees in the northwestern Eurasian tundra, researchers report. The darker foliage absorbs sunlight that would otherwise be reflected back to space, which could contribute to regional warming. But these new mini-forests could absorb carbon dioxide, too, scientists note. [Time]
Some affluent homeowners in Austin, Tex., drilled private wells on their property so their lush landscaping would not suffer when a drought led to the adoption of drastic watering restrictions. While fewer than 50 were drilled, groundwater managers and others worry that such drilling in an virtually unprotected aquifer could undermine water conservation efforts. [The American-Statesman]
After giving up driving to work to set a good example, the mayor of Ithaca turns his designated parking space into a mini-park. [Grist] 

        
On Our Radar: Rerouting the Keystone XL Pipeline
        
Climate Change Is Shrinking Species, Research Suggests
        
Film on Climate Refugees Strikes a Chord
        
July Was the Fourth-Warmest on Record
        
Questions on Climate Change and the Food Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); EURO CRISIS (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); LEGISLATION (71%) Austin; Drought; energy crisis; Global Warming; Greece; Ithaca; mini-forests; private wells; Breaking News; Business; climate change; Emissions Reduction; forests; Natural Gas; Politics and Policy

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



126 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Amid Million Dollar PTAs, a School Fights to Keep Its Library

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Try raising $40,000 annually to keep your school library: "Our families are tapped out. I just don't see how we can sustain this frantic pace." 

 BODY:
In a world, or even a city, where every school had the basics, it would be easier to stomach the "$1 million dollar PTAs" described over the weekend in the Metro section of The New York Times (Way Beyond Bake Sales: The $1 Million PTA).
Even as it is, it's hard to fault the parents of children from schools like Public School 87, who raised $1.57 million for computers, science kits, desk chairs and dictionaries. "There is no crime in wanting to give directly to your child's education," Michelle Ciulla Lipkin, a PTA president at P. S. 199, which raised approximately $500,000 and spent close to $100,000 of those funds on a science and technology teacher, told a Times reporter Kyle Spencer.
But it's tough for the parents at P.S. 363 in the East Village to read about these fortunate schools and families without wanting to tear their hair and rend their garments. Funds raised by P.S. 87 parents also pay to keep "the comfortable, well-lighted library stocked with books and computers," and that is exactly what parents at P.S. 363 (familiarly known as The Neighborhood School, or TNS) are fighting to do this week. For their children, it's not a question of having a library that is "comfortable" or "well-stocked" but a question of having a library at all.
In the last three years, TNS has cut its Reading Recovery program, lost its assistant principal and its half-time math and literacy coaches and increased class size in every grade. The school learned this past April that it could no longer afford its library or librarian.
Forty percent of TNS students qualify for free lunch, and the school pays for that diversity in an unexpected way: it's far more difficult to raise large sums of money from its families. But the school still does not qualify for the federal Title 1 financing allocated to schools serving large percentages of low-income children. It is the public school version of the marriage penalty: diversity is largely considered a social good, but those who practice it are expected to pay, one way or another.
"I don't begrudge the wealthy PTAs the money they raise," said a TNS parent, Marjorie Ingall (who is also a writer and a friend). "But the inequities are just really stark and really demoralizing." In a mad, eight-week-long burst of fund-raising, parents, with much community participation, managed to raise the $40,000 necessary to save the library for the 2012-2013 school year. "At this point," Ms. Ingall said, "our families are tapped out. I just don't see how we can sustain this frantic pace."
But they'll have to, to finance the library again next year (and the art program, too, has no money for the 2013-2014 school year). Meanwhile, the school has made no new furniture or curriculum purchases in two years, and "the cuts keep coming."
It may be hard to blame the parents contributing money for iPads and teacher education and even swim lessons and automatic toilet flushers, for TNS's travails. But it's easy to question a system that makes such extensive, parent-run financing campaigns necessary for a library and a librarian. TNS isn't the only school that is falling through the cracks (which is more like craters) between a wealthy PTA and Title 1, and although Title 1 financing would have saved TNS's library and art program, it's never going to pay for a rooftop ecology center and turtle pond - or mean, as PTA budgets do, that money that might have been spent to finance the library can be allocated back to teachers and aides.
Some cities, like Portland, Ore., require PTAs to share some of the money raised. New York City does not (and it's rare nationwide). The city does work with the to raise money that can be allocated citywide, but compare the Fund's typical library grant of $10,000 with the $40,000 needed to support the TNS library for a school year, and then consider how many city schools might be even more in need of that money than TNS. Compare the $500 to $2,000 mini-grants available to "start or enhance a learning garden program" with what it must take to support that rooftop turtle pool every year.
There is nothing inherently wrong with a parent donating even significant sums to a public school to support a child's education. But when the parents most capable of doing so are clustered at some schools and conspicuously absent at others, the inequities that already heavily affect lower-income children are effectively institutionalized within the public school system. Parents "voting" with school selection or real estate choices have a strong incentive to choose less economic diversity and a better financed education over more diversity, but less ability to support even the basics of a good school.
In a Room for Debate last month on the topic of de facto school segregation, Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation in New York argued powerfully for socioeconomic diversity in schools (Integrating Rich and Poor Matters Most). Lower-income students attending more affluent schools with "peers with big dreams, a community of parents who are in a position to volunteer in class and know how to hold school officials accountable and talented teachers with high expectations" tested two years ahead of children stuck in high-poverty schools. "We need better zoning policies that allow low-income families to live in middle-class neighborhoods, more funding for magnet schools that voluntarily produce integration and financial incentives for middle-class schools to welcome low-income students who wish to attend."
Instead, wealthy and middle-class New York City families face an entirely different kind of school choice: turtle ponds and genteel fund-raising letters, or a frantic annual effort to finance the library. I would argue that the young students of TNS (many of whom donated their own savings to the library fund) learned a powerful lesson this year, but I'm not sure it's one most parents would actively seek for their children.
If you want to help TNS with its continued efforts to finance the library, you can visit the students' "lemonade stand" this Thursday, June 7, at the Bean coffee shop on Second Avenue and East Third Street. (Find more information on their efforts ). If you want to help find a way to prevent more schools from asking their students to peddle lemonade (and art, note cards and travel mugs) to finance their libraries, that's going to be more difficult.

        
Wealthy, Foreign-Born and Happy With Public Schools
        
Two Teachers Accused. All Teachers Dismissed.
        
Will Standardized Tests Kill Reading?
        
Should We 'Occupy' Education?
        
How Graphic Should Sex Education Get?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LIBRARIANS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PARENTING (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (75%); WRITERS (73%); MARRIAGE (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) diversity; school funding; Schools; segregation; socio-economic diversity; Ingall, Marjorie; Kahlenberg, Richard D; Children and Childhood; Education (K-12); Families and Family Life; Libraries and Librarians; Parent-Teacher Associations; Parenting; Fund for Public Schools; Neighborhood School; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Fund for Public Schools; Neighborhood School

PERSON: Ingall, Marjorie; Kahlenberg, Richard D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



127 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: For Charleston and Spoleto, It's Clean Up, Paint Up, Fix Up Time Once Again

BYLINE: ALLAN KOZINN


HIGHLIGHT: With many of the performance spaces used by the Spoleto Festival USA already spiffed up, the biggest project of all is about to start: a $142 million renovation of the Gaiilard Municipal Auditorium, with costs split between the City of Charleston and private donors. 

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- When the Spoleto Festival USA opened shop here in 1977, its performing spaces were a motley combination of revived old theaters, modern auditoriums and outdoor arenas. To some extent, that's how it still is, but in recent years the festival, the city of Charleston and private groups interested in upgrading Charleston's performing facilities, have been reconfiguring some of the main theaters. Spoleto, the theory goes, is here to stay; its halls might as well be up to date. And renovating them can only encourage the city's artistic life between festivals as well.
The star among the festival's homes has long been the Dock Street Theater in the historic part of Charleston. This 450-seat jewel is perfect for chamber music and theater, and the festival gives it a hefty workout: chamber concerts are held there every morning and afternoon, and this year it has hosted several other events, among them the Gate Theater Dublin's production of Nol Coward's "Hay Fever," Guo Wenjing's opera "Feng Yi Ting" and John Kennedy's interview with Philip Glass.
The Dock Street was built as a theater in 1736, but it burned down within a few years. It was rebuilt and torn down by the end of the 18th century and built again - this time as a hotel - in 1809. The hotel, along with four adjacent structures, was transformed into a theater in a $350,000 renovation underwritten by the Works Progress Administration in 1935.
During the festival's first three decades, the Dock Street was attractive and functional -- comfortable and with fine acoustics - but a bit shabby. And the section of the building used as the backstage area had been structurally compromised by earlier renovations. The city, with underwriting from the Federal Emergency Management Agency undertook a two-year, $15 million renovation. The theater, now far more elegant but with its acoustics and its wood surfaces intact, reopened in 2010.
Partly to have a place for its chamber concerts during the Dock Street renovation but also with an eye toward future productions of other sorts, the festival covered the $6 million cost of renovating the 700-seat Memminger Auditorium in 2008. Built in the late 1930s, the auditorium was once the city's main symphony, dance and recital hall but fell into disuse by the end of the 1960's, when Gaillard Municipal Auditorium supplanted it.
But the Gaillard (pronounced GILL-yerd) was a mixed blessing. The festival has long presented opera, symphony and dance performances there, but it has always struck me as a glorified high school auditorium. When I said that the other day to Nigel Redden, the festival's general director, he corrected me: "Junior high school," he said.
Bringing the Gaillard up to standard has been one of Mr. Redden's goals since he joined the festival in 1986, and he is about to have his wish. Soon after this year's festival ends, on Sunday, the Gaillard will get a $142 million renovation that will involve stripping the room and replacing its insides. Its capacity will be reduced from 2,743 seats to 1,800 and - the tricky part - its acoustics overhauled.
Like the Dock Street renovation, this project will cost the festival nothing. The city is picking up half of the expense, and a private nonprofit corporation has been formed to raise the rest.
That is not to say that the cost of revamping the Gaillard won't have an impact on the festival. Some of the festival's board members are among those raising money for the renovation, and with the economy already affecting donations to arts organizations, an expensive project could divert funds that might otherwise go to the festival.
As it is, contributions have fallen, as they have elsewhere. Gifts and government financing once accounted for 55 percent of the festival's budget, with the remaining 45 percent covered by earned income: ticket sales, merchandising and income from the festival's endowment. This year, earned income accounts for 58 percent of the $6.7 million budget.
State financing, $560,000 at its height, was only $14,000 this year. On the bright side, Mr. Redden said, "this year's ticket sales are the best we've ever had at this point in the festival," 9 days into the 17-day schedule. And the festival has a cash reserve that it can draw on to account for shortfalls in contributions.
But having an upgraded hall for the festival's major events may be worth the risk. And no doubt the festival will be eager to get back to the Gaillard when it reopens in 2015: during the renovation, performances that would otherwise have been there will be presented at the TD Arena, a 5,100-seat basketball arena that Mr. Redden said would be given "some acoustic treatment to make it useful" and configured to use only 1,800 to 2,000 seats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MUSIC (90%); OPERA (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (68%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (62%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); HAY FEVER (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Redden, Nigel; Classical Music; Spoleto Festival USA; Charleston (SC)

PERSON: Redden, Nigel

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (96%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (79%) Charleston (SC)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



128 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Cheap vs. Expensive Drugs

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Across the country, there is huge variation in the share of prescription drugs that are generics versus brand-name, leading to wasteful taxpayer spending somewhere. 

 BODY:
There are many, many reasons why health care spending has become such a huge national burden, including overtesting, the aging and weight gain of the populace, poor communication among health care professionals and deficient information about what treatments are most effective.
But one that often goes overlooked is the use of branded drugs versus their cheaper, generic alternatives.
In a recent paper published in The New England Journal of Medicine, researchers looked at regional drug spending as part of Medicare Part D, a federal program that offers prescription drug coverage to everyone with Medicare. There's a lot of variation in this type of spending around the country, but it hasn't been clear why.
Once the researchers controlled for factors like age, sex, race, ethnicity, income and poverty levels, they found that variations in spending resulted primarily from the cost of individual drugs prescribed, rather than overall volume of prescriptions.
This cost differential is largely due to differences in rates of generic versus brand-name drug prescriptions.
Here's a map showing the share of antidepressants (S.S.R.I.'s and S.N.R.I.'s) prescribed in 2008 that were brand name, by region. The darker areas -- like those in parts of Texas, Louisiana, Wyoming and Florida -- show higher reliance on brand-name drugs, even after controlling for income and other factors.
Here is a similar map showing what share of prescriptions for cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins were for brand-name products:
Once again, Texan doctors are especially likely to prescribe brand-name versions, as are doctors in North Dakota, New Jersey and South Carolina, among other places.
Finally, here are comparable branded-drug rates for blood-pressure treatments known as ACE inhibitors and A.R.B.'s., which the study treats as close substitutes for one another. (Nearly all of the prescriptions for branded ACE inhibitors and A.R.B.'s were actually just for A.R.B.'s, which at the time of the study did not have any generic equivalents.)
Southern Texas again prescribes brand-name drugs in unusually high rates, as do Mississippi, South Florida and most of New Jersey.
It's not clear what causes these differences in generic versus branded drug usage. Insurance plan designs could be one factor, as could local patient cultures or doctors' incentive systems.
For example, McAllen, Tex. -- made famous by Atul Gawande's biting New Yorker article on how financial incentives seemed to encourage local doctors to over-test their patients -- also happens to have high branded-drug rates in all three categories of prescriptions mapped above. Miami had this distinction as well.
On the other hand, doctors in Dearborn, Mich., and Rochester, Minn., prescribed unusually low rates of brand-name drugs for all three categories.
It's also not clear, of course, what the "right" share of branded drug prescriptions should be, but the wild variation among geographic regions suggests that there's at least some waste somewhere.
On a cost basis, the difference between generic and brand-name drugs can be huge, leaving billions of taxpayer and patient dollars at stake. If we cared only about minimizing costs, the share of branded versions prescribed for each of the drug categories shown above should be zero.
Costs must be weighed against patient outcomes, however.
Certainly the pharmaceutical companies that sell the brand-name drugs would argue that their products are superior to generic alternatives and that reducing the share of name-brand prescriptions would hurt patients. (Various studies have found no difference in effectiveness between branded and generic for many types of medications, however.)
There is at least one way that that prescribing a share of brand-name drugs could help patient outcomes as well as federal finances, the authors suggest.
Branded drugs cost not only taxpayers more money, but Medicare Part D beneficiaries too, as co-payments are generally much higher for branded drugs than for generics. Switching from brand-name drugs to generics would reduce the out-of-pocket costs for patients, which might encourage patients to actually take and refill the medicines they've been prescribed.
"A reduction of the financial burden of prescription-drug use on the elderly through greater use of generics may improve medication adherence and ultimately lead to better health outcomes," the authors write.

        
Define 'Welfare State,' Please
        
Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan's Budget
        
Determining the Level of Payments in Health Care
        
Wyden-Ryan's Unrealistic Assumptions
        
The Wyden-Ryan Plan: Deja Vu All Over Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (95%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); HYPERTENSION (71%); CHOLESTEROL (66%) evidence-based medicine; health care; Medicare; Medicare Part D; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic Brands and Products; New England Journal of Medicine

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (91%) New England Journal of Medicine

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (69%); MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (86%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



129 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Emissions Fell Under Cap and Trade Program, Report Says

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: The decline in the nine participating Northeastern and mid-Atlantic states can be attributed not just to the carbon market, but to the cheap price of natural gas, improved energy efficiency programs and an economic decline. 

 BODY:
The cap and trade system known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiativeannounced Monday that carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in the nine participating states on the East Coast fell by an average of 23 percent during the first three years of the program.
The pioneering program, known as (pronounced reggie), sets a ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power providers and requires the companies to pay for their emissions by buying allowances in auctions held four times a year. As an incentive to cut emissions, companies that pollute less can sell their unused allowances to other companies at the auctions.
RGGI officials said that 206 of the 211 power plants subject to the program's requirements met their compliance obligations during the first three-year period. From Jan. 1, 2009 to Dec. 31, 2011, average annual carbon dioxide emissions amounted 126 million tons, a 23 percent decline from the previous three-year period running from 2006 through 2008.

Pollution from the plants was 33 percent below the program's annual pollution cap of 188 million tons, a trend that is partly attributed to a greater reliance on natural gas (which pollutes less than coal-fired electricity) as gas prices declined. Other factors included state investments in energy efficiency and setbacks in the economy, RGGI officials said.
The program is undergoing its first comprehensive review, and changes are foreseen.

        
Carbon Auction Yields $16.9 Million for New York
        
Cap and Trade Is Dead. Long Live Cap and Trade.
        
Reaping a Bonus From Cap-and-Trade
        
Carbon Trading Initiative a Success, Study Says
        
Documenting a Collapsing Ice Shelf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (96%); GREENHOUSE GASES (96%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TRENDS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%) carbon-dioxide emissions; greenhouse gases; Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative; rggi; Air Pollution; Auctions; Carbon Dioxide; Coal; Electric Light and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Natural Gas; Business; Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



130 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows Polarization Limited to Parties

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Americans may not be any more polarized now than decades ago, but self-identified Democrats and Republicans are. 

 BODY:
Americans of different races are no more polarized in their political views than they were 25 years ago. Men and women are no more polarized, either. The same goes for people of different education levels, different income groups and different levels of religiosity.
 The one big exception, according to a poll from the Pew Research Center, is political party. Self-described Democrats and self-described Republicans hold beliefs that contrast much more sharply than a generation ago on a wide range of issues, including environmental policy, the safety net and immigration.
 "Unlike 25 years ago, party affiliation more than anything else drives how Americans think about just about all issues," Andrew Kohut, Pew's president, said.
 Together, the trends suggest that Americans are not vastly more polarized than were in the late 1980s but that they have increasingly sorted themselves into two ideologically cohesive political parties.
 During this time, Republicans have moved farther to the right -- on economic issues, at least -- than Democrats have moved to the left. Asked whether the government should take care of people who can't take care of themselves, 75 percent of Democrats now say yes, down only slightly from 79 percent in 1987. But just 40 percent of Republicans say so, down from 62 percent in 1987.
 Republicans' support for stricter laws to protect the environment has fallen even more sharply. 
 But the views of Democrats have shifted on some economic issues as well, with Democrats becoming more strongly in favor of government steps to ensure equal opportunity. On social issues, like gay rights, Democrats have moved more than Republicans.
 The poll suggested that Democrats have opinions closer to those of the country as a whole on gay rights and Wall Street. Republicans are closer to the national mood on affirmative action and whether the government should go deeper into debt to help the poor.
 The poll also found that the share of self-identified Republicans has declined over the last two decades to about 24 percent of the country, from about 31 percent. The share of Democrats has stayed about steady - to 32 percent, from 33 percent - while the share of independents has risen to 38 percent, from 29 percent. 
 In essence, the parties appear to have lost some of the people who were closer to the middle of political spectrum and retained those closer to the extremes. Today, 68 percent of Republicans identify themselves as conservative, up from 60 percent in 2000. Among Democrats, 38 percent identify as liberal, up from 28 percent in 2000.
The national telephone poll was conducted April 4-15 with 3,008 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TRENDS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); RELIGION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); LGBT RIGHTS (64%); IMMIGRATION (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%) Kohut, Andrew; Polls and Public Opinion; Democratic Party; Pew Research Center; Republican Party; United States; Polling; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Pew Research Center; Republican Party

PERSON: Kohut, Andrew

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



131 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds of the Living Dead

BYLINE: JAY EISENHOFER and MATTHEW P. MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Recent offshore case law has recognized an investor's right to seek a "just and equitable" windup of a hedge fund when it has gone into lockup mode. 

 BODY:
Four years after the onset of the financial crisis, tens of billions of dollars remain locked up in illiquid "zombie" hedge funds that suspended their redemptions in the darkest days of the meltdown. 
Today, these funds produce little if any financial return for their fiduciaries while their administrators continue to coast along, sitting on fund assets without making any effort to liquidate and return their holdings - yet still collecting their management fees. Most investors believe they are powerless to do anything, yet that is not the case.
Recent offshore case law - relevant to tax-exempt institutional investors given their ability to invest funds registered in offshore jurisdictions like the Caymans Islands - recognizes an investor's right to seek a "just and equitable" windup of a fund when it has gone into lockup mode and ceased to take in new subscriptions or make redemptions. This can be a powerful tool, as public pension fund investors demonstrated recently by forcing the liquidation of a fund run by Fletcher Asset Management after Fletcher was found to be insolvent by a judge in the Caymans.
At the worst of the market turmoil in late 2008, an estimated $175 billion of capital was locked up in illiquid hedge funds, according to Hedge Fund Review. It is estimated that some $50 billion to $60 billion remains locked up in zombie funds, out of the reach of investors.
While fund managers' assertions that they needed time to liquidate assets and return cash to investors might have been justified in the immediate aftermath of the financial crash, years later those claims have worn thin. Tired of sitting idly by while waiting for managers to redeem assets, fed-up investors are resorting to the courts to reclaim what is theirs. 
Fintan Partners recently filed suit in New York against the fund manager Medley Capital over its refusal to make cash redemptions from the Medley Opportunity Fund. Late last year, Fintan sought to redeem its investment in Medley Opportunity, but the fund managers refused to honor the request. In its filing, Fintan argues that Medley's refusal to honor its redemption request in cash represents a breach of contract under the terms of its original agreement with the fund. 
The Delaware Chancery Court last year ordered a fund managed by Paige Capital Management to return a $40 million investment by the Lerner family, which owns the Cleveland Browns football team. 
The court ruled that the Paige Capital managers did not have authority under the governing fund documentation to employ a redemption-stalling device, and had breached their fiduciary duty and acted solely to feather their own financial nest by ensuring the continued collection of their management fees. It ordered the managers to return the entire Lerner investment, plus interest and certain excess fees they had paid. 
In the recent Cayman Islands case, two funds managed by Aris Capital invested in 2007 in another hedge fund formed to trade commodities, the Heriot African Trade Finance Fund Ltd. Aris put up nearly a quarter of the equity in the Heriot fund, which invested almost all of its capital in only two companies, a manganese producer and a cocoa manufacturer, both of which defaulted when the financial crisis struck a year later. In early 2009, Heriot suspended all redemptions by its fund holders.
Aris initiated legal proceedings to wind up and liquidate the Heriot fund, arguing that it had failed to file its financial statements in a timely manner and could no longer execute its stated investment strategy. Aris later amended its petition to assert that the Heriot fund had lost its "substratum" and was no longer viable.
Under English law, "loss of substratum" refers to a situation in which a business can no longer carry out its intended operations or services in accordance with its governing documents. In simplest terms, think of a baker who has lost his oven, or a taxi driver without a driver's license - or a hedge fund holding mostly illiquid assets and no additional capital to put to work for its investors. 
The Cayman Grand Court sided with Aris in its decision issued Jan. 4, 2011, and ordered the liquidation of the Heriot fund. "It is impossible for the fund to carry on its original businesses in the sense that it will not make any new investments or enter into any new trade finance transactions," the court said, noting that the hedge fund's "temporary" suspension of redemptions was in fact permanent. It required the fund to be wound up in a "just and equitable" manner. 
In the case of dormant entities like the Heriot fund, the Cayman court said that liquidation was justified because "it has become impractical, if not actually impossible, to carry on its investment business in accordance with the reasonable expectations of its participating shareholders, based upon the representations contained in its offering document." 
More recently, the Cayman Grand Court ordered liquidation of a locally registered fund run by Fletcher Asset Management after three Louisiana public pension funds brought a petition to wind up the Fletcher fund on "just and equitable" grounds. 
The Louisiana funds had invested a combined $100 million in 2008 in an unusual deal in which Fletcher offered the funds a "guaranteed" minimum 12 percent annual return backed by the assets of other investors. (Hedge funds typically do not offer clients minimum returns.)
In March 2011, two of the pension funds sought to withdraw money from Fletcher, which responded to their requests with promissory notes, or i.o.u.'s. In June 2011, the three Louisiana funds requested to cash out their total initial investments and accrued earnings, a sum they said equaled $144.5 million, based on monthly statements they had received. 
In ordering the windup and liquidation of the offshore Fletcher funds, the Cayman court found that the funds were insolvent on a cash-flow basis, and it appointed local insolvency specialists to serve as official court-appointed liquidators and to pursue claims on behalf of investors.
Cayman law does not apply to hedge funds domiciled in the United States or other locations. But since such a high percentage of funds are domiciled in the Caymans, the Aris and Fletcher rulings represent significant pro-investor case law. 
Investors may have historically assumed they were helpless in wrenching capital back from zombie hedge funds. As these recent cases illustrate, that is not necessarily so, however. 
With the assistance of legal and financial advisers, investors can leverage their rights to audit a hedge fund's books and records, independently value portfolio assets and, in extreme cases, force a liquidation to recover assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); CONTRACTS LAW (70%); TAX LAW (70%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); JUDGES (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (53%) Hedge Funds; Suits and Litigation; Another View; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FLETCHER ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (55%); MEDLEY CAPITAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: MCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (78%); OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



132 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: People With Individual Health Plans Would Save Out-of-Pocket Under Reform, Study Finds

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Older and lower-income Americans who buy their own health insurance would save under health reform, a study finds. 

 BODY:
6:18 p.m. 
People who buy individual health insurance would likely save hundreds of dollars a year in out-of-pocket medical costs under the Affordable Care Act, a study from the journal Health Affairs estimates.
Roughly 11 million Americans under 65 who don't have insurance through an employer are covered by private individual plans. The study found that if the Act had been implemented from 2001 to 2008, the average adult with individual insurance would have saved at least $280 a year on out-of-pocket costs for medical care and prescription drugs.
The savings were greater for those aged 44 to 64 ($589 a year) and for those with low incomes ($535).
Under the act, these individuals likely would buy insurance through newly created "exchanges," with benefits varying by income.
The study didn't examine the impact of expanded benefits under the law on health insurance premiums - the monthly amount paid for coverage -- which might be expected to rise as benefits are expanded, offsetting any out of pocket savings. But the study cited two reports (one from the Congressional Budget Office in 2009, and another from RAND in 2010) suggesting that better management of competition under the exchanges, along with an increase in healthier people buying insurance, could reduce premiums.
Whether the health reform law is fully implemented is now up in the air due to a United States Supreme Court challenge. The court is expected to issue a ruling in the case in late June.
Steven Hill, a senior economist at the Center for Financing, Access and Cost Trends, part of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality in Rockville, Md., authored the study. (A summary is available free online.)
To do the analysis, Mr. Hill used a nationally representative sample of adults from data gathered by the agency. He compared 2,672 adults with individual insurance from 2001 to 2008, and compared them to thousands of adults who had insurance through small and large insurers. (Results were adjusted for inflation.)
The study found that adults with individual insurance spent an average of $1,100 each year on out-of-pocket medical costs and prescription drugs, compared with $607 for those getting insurance through small employers and $546 for those with coverage through large employers.
Another impact of the reform law, the study found, was a reduction for all adults with individual insurance in the likelihood of having to spend more than $6,000 on out-of-pocket costs.
Do you have individual insurance? How much do you pay out of pocket for medical care?

        
Help in Deciding if Medical Tests Are Needed
        
Many Americans Struggling to Pay Medical Bills
        
Cost of Long-Term Care Insurance Keeps Rising
        
Rising Health Costs Are a Top Financial Concern of the Affluent
        
Will High-Deductible Health Insurance Plans Become the Norm?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (63%) Health Expenses; Health Insurance; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



133 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley as the New Hollywood

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: As is evident by the recent coverage in the mainstream gossip press, technology is no longer just a technology story. 

 BODY:
Their wedding was on the covers of the gossip magazines. Every moment of their honeymoon documented across the Web. A lavish boat ride and a stroll down Italy's old cobbled streets, each footstep photographed by the paparazzi. There were even mundane photos of a receipt signed by the groom at a Rome restaurant called Nonna Betta. (They shared a tasty 32 Euro meal that included artichoke ravioli and two cups of tea, in case you were interested.)
No. I'm not talking about Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt. I'm talking about Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook, and his wife, Priscilla Chan.
It seems that the story of technology is no longer just a technology story. Instead, technology is now the new Hollywood.
Of course, Mr. Zuckerberg isn't the only person being featured in the entertainment press. There is a long list of tech entrepreneurs who are increasingly splashed across glossy pages of magazines like People, Vanity Fair and Vogue, and pampered and beautified in elaborate photo shoots.
Even more telling, this change is visible on the screens of the technology blogs, especially the gossip-centric ones.
Ryan Tate, a former gossip blogger for Gawker and the author of the book "The 20% Doctrine," said that over the years, a wider audience has clearly become enamored with the gossip of Silicon Valley notables.
"At Gawker, we saw more and more interest from a wider array of readers about people like Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs, the C.E.O.'s of Google, Foursquare, DropBox, and others," Mr. Tate explained.
He told the story of what he had thought would be an arcane blog post that was recently published in Gawker about Drew Houston, the chief executive of DropBox.
"This post about DropBox's C.E.O. got close to 300,000 page views and was linked to from everywhere, including the British newspaper The Daily Mail," he said, adding that when he wrote it, he thought it would be read by 15,000 people.
"It hit me that the story of tech is now well outside Silicon Valley," he said. "When there is so much bad news and economic hardship in the world, people want to read about celebrity, and that is now the Valley people, who have swagger and bling and are often young and glamorous."
Granted, people like Bill Gates of Microsoft and Larry Ellison of Oracle have been profiled for years, along with the multiple private jets, indoor trampoline rooms and more than one mansion compound that cost tens of millions or dollars, each. But the attention of the public has been drawn more through awe of their gargantuan bank accounts and bravado than by interest in them personally, or the companies they run.
(After all, how sexy can Oracle database software or Windows Office be?)
This new generation of tech celebrities is doted on because their products are more intimate: Facebook, Twitter and Angry Birds are forms of entertainment used by hundreds of millions of people.
The nerds still have nerdy tendencies, like playing Dungeons and Dragons. But the shift in power and celebrity is clearly crossing a once ironclad line between Silicon Valley and Hollywood.
In reaching that plateau of fame, fortune and intrigue, the story of technology is no longer just a story about technology but one that now makes it onto the cover of People magazine.

        
Facebook's Royal Wedding
        
Mark Zuckerberg Officially a Billionaire
        
Zuckerberg's Property Status, Post-Marriage
        
Zuckerberg Ties the Knot
        
General Mark Zuckerberg, Reporting for Duty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WRITERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (72%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) celebrity; Hollywood; Mark Zuckerberg; people magazine; technology; us weekly; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Magazines; Facebook Inc; Hollywood (Calif); Silicon Valley (Calif); Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; Internet; Social; Start-ups

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%) Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (93%); BRAD PITT (55%); BILL GATES (54%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%) Zuckerberg, Mark E

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (73%) Hollywood (Calif); Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



134 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Global Banks Cut Lending in Response to Economic Slowdown

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: As the sovereign debt crisis drags on, international lending by global banks in the fourth quarter last year fell by the largest amount since the Lehman Brothers crisis in 2008. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The world's largest financial institutions are getting increasingly skittish.
International lending by global banks in the fourth quarter last year fell by the largest amount since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, according to the Bank for International Settlements, an association of the world's central banks.
In total, financial firms cut overseas lending by $799 billion in the last three months of 2011, the latest figures available. Around 80 percent of the reduction came from the so-called interbank market where institutions lend money to one another.
The pullback in credit, particularly among banks themselves, is the latest effort by financial institutions to reduce exposure to the global economic slowdown. It also raises concerns that the unwillingness of banks to lend money to each other may have an effect on the broader economy, as businesses are unable to access new financing.
"Optimism has evaporated," said Stephen G. Cecchetti, head of the monetary and economic department at the Bank for International Settlements. "Markets have become highly volatile, and investors are having doubts about everything, about growth and the financial health of sovereigns and banks."
As the ripple effects of the European debt crisis have been felt across the United States and emerging economies in Asia and Latin America, banks in both developed and emerging economies have been looking to pullback on credit to risky borrowers.
Attention has focused on Europe and its beleaguered banking system. In its quarterly review published on Monday, the Bank for International Settlements, based in Basel, Switzerland, said international banks had cut lending to financial firms in the so-called euro zone region by $364 billion in the fourth quarter last year. The reduction represents almost half of the global pullback in lending over the period.
Countries in Southern Europe were the worst affected. In Spain, whose banks are struggling under a weight of depressed real estate assets and poor domestic growth, international lending to the country's banks fell 10 percent. International lending to Italian firms also fell 9 percent in the fourth quarter.
Even banks in France and Germany - the euro zone's two economic heavyweights - had access to international loans cut 4 percent and 9 percent, respectively, as global institutions reduced their exposure to the European debt crisis.
The move by the European Central Bank to inject more than $1 trillion in short-term loans to the Continent's banking system initially helped to reduce borrowing costs in the first quarter of the year, according to the report by the Bank for International Settlements. 
But as optimism about the influx of cheap, government-backed loans began to fade in April, the ability of European banks to raise new funds -- particularly in countries like Greece and Spain -- has become more difficult. 
In part, the financing problems for many European banks relate to growing concerns they will not be able to repay the loans. Along with billions of dollars of bad debts on their balances sheets, firms also are being hurt as customers in the most indebted countries start to withdraw deposits from local lenders. The Greek central bank recently said the country's citizens had taken more than $1 billion out of domestic banks because of fears that Greece might leave the euro zone.
As confidence continues to be sapped from the banking sectors in a number of European countries, firms are likely to face mounting challenges to raise new money. 
"Market conditions remain difficult for a number of banks from the euro area periphery, which found it difficult to place unsecured debt with investors," the report from the Bank for International Settlements said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LENDING (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%) Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GREECE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



135 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: The Unfunded Liabilities You Love

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Spending cuts favored by Republicans would not simply reduce commitments not covered by projected revenues, but would shift them to individuals and families, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Here it comes: economic Armageddon. Reckless promises to finance the future costs of health care and retirement contribute to a crushing debt burden on American families that can be relieved only by cutting back on the size of government. 
Mitt Romney has made this position the centerpiece of his presidential campaign. But it is misleading, for reasons that go beyond nomenclature to touch the very conceptual heart of public finance.
Mr. Romney seems to believe that government spending cuts would simply reduce unfunded liabilities - projected commitments that are not covered by projected revenues. But they are likely to simply redistribute these liabilities, shifting them from government to individuals - especially those with children to educate, or sick, disabled or frail family members to care for. 
Unfunded liabilities are not technically the same as public debt. Congress can cancel or modify its commitments to potential recipients of Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid at any time. It is harder to default on formal loans.
As my fellow Economix blogger Bruce Bartlett emphasizes, these public promises carry political and moral weight. They also carry important implications for private promises.

Have you set aside specific funds to cover the future costs of your own health insurance, retirement and long-term care in old age? How about funds to cover the costs of educating your children and caring for a possibly disabled spouse or elderly parent? 
The sum of these costs is likely to exceed your projected future earnings stream - especially if the risk of long-term unemployment remains high and returns on standard retirement portfolios remain low. In other words, your own unfunded liabilities are probably pretty high. 
If public spending on health, education and retirement declines, private spending will increase, though probably not by the same amount, because some families won't be able to afford the services they need and will go without. Family financial instability will increase. 
Growing debt among college students is largely a consequence of declining public support for higher education. Many families are only one job loss or medical emergency away from bankruptcy. 
Mr. Romney might welcome this shift from public to private costs, because it would heighten incentives to save, rewarding individuals who shop around for the best private health insurance, private schools and private retirement plans. Unfortunately, it would also reward individuals who choose not to take on responsibilities for children, the sick and the elderly.
Traditional textbooks in public finance typically focus on the relationship between the market and the state. The word "family" often can't be found. 
Yet most social spending provides support and social insurance for commitments once made by families alone: education, health care and support in old age. Conservatives like Charles Murray often assert that public provision crowds out family provision, contributing to family breakdown. 
But both the historical record and current comparisons suggest a different causality: The growth of individual wage employment weakened the family as an economic unit and left those with many dependents especially vulnerable. Working people fought for public programs based on an intergenerational contract that reduces the cost and risk of commitments to children and the elderly. 
Lack of public support for family work has contributed to below-replacement levels of fertility in countries like Japan, South Korea, Italy and Spain. The transition to extreme capitalism - with little public social spending - in Russia has led to a huge demographic deterioration and depopulation. 
In all the advanced capitalist countries, children remain dependent on their parents much longer than they once did, largely because they require many more years of education to succeed in the labor market. Elderly parents are more likely to survive into old age than they once were, and partly as a result, are more likely to suffer from expensive chronic health problems like Alzheimer's disease and dementia. 
These trends toward increased dependency are a cause - not a result - of increased public spending. 
As the economist Frank Ackerman waggishly puts it in his analysis of another unfunded liability - global warming - it's not clear that any of us can afford the future.
Increases in all these unanticipated costs have intensified distributional conflict between men and women, old and young, as well as rich and poor, making it hard to reach political consensus. 
Some economists argue that the elderly have hogged more than their share, as beneficiaries of an "intergenerational time bomb." But cuts in benefits to the elderly would ripple through to other generations. 
If your mother needs surgery for a broken hip, and Medicare won't cover it, won't you feel compelled to chip in? That expenditure will reduce your ability to pay for your children's education, as well as your ability to save for your own retirement.
Of course, some people will remain in perfect health, die at their desks, never raise children and never need to provide for their parents. They will be the big winners from big cuts in social spending, along with those whose pockets are so deep that they need no insurance of any kind. 

        
The Asymmetric Recovery
        
Define 'Welfare State,' Please
        
Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan's Budget
        
Taxes and Employment
        
Not Wanting Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); TRENDS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MEDICAID (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); TEXTBOOKS (68%); HISTORY (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%) .; budget deficit; Daily Economist; deficit spending; Elderly; employment; family economics; health care; health insurance; Nancy Folbre; social spending; spending; U.S. health care costs; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Today's Economist

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



136 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Some Look to History as Time Runs Out for Europe

BYLINE: PAUL GEITNER


HIGHLIGHT: Few believe that austerity alone will restore stability and growth to the euro zone, and many wonder if and when the Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is going to loosen the purse strings. How much time does Europe have to save its monetary union? 

 BODY:
BRUSSELS - They say that in the face of death, one's life passes in front of one's eyes. That might help explain why Europe's existential crisis seems to have prompted some commentators to go back, way back in some cases, for answers. 
As my colleague Nicholas Kulish and others have pointed out, Germany's experience dealing with the collapsed economy of its eastern half over the past 23 years informs its attitudes toward Greece today. Another colleague, Katrin Bennhold, noted earlier this month that Greece has been kicked out of a currency union once already - in 1908. The Sddeutsche Zeitung last week noted that the Spanish have been frittering away opportunities and suffering economic crises for 500 years, going back to the discovery of the Americas in 1492. 
Great stuff for the historically minded, but a lot of people are understandably worried about what's going to happen now. 
Lots of Europeans breathed a sigh of relief when the Irish voted to support the German-engineered fiscal compact last week, avoiding one more wrench in the slow-grinding gears of Europe's recovery. But as my colleague Landon Thomas Jr. wrote on the front page of Monday's Herald Tribune, there are still a lot of unanswered questions about the euro zone's future.
Few believe that austerity alone will restore stability and growth to the euro zone, and many wonder if and when the Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is going to loosen the purse strings. As Ulrike Gurot, senior research fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations and a visiting scholar at Deutsches Haus at NYU, wrote in her latest blog post from New York, "the "Why-does-Merkel-don't-get-it?" argument hangs like clouds above NY."
Der Spiegel reported over the weekend that Ms. Merkel and her finance minister, Wolfgang Schuble, want Spain to get under the rescue umbrella by asking for help for its banks from the European Financial Stability Fund, and thus reduce the chance it gets soaked in the financial storm that would follow any Greek decision to abandon the euro. Indeed, as the magazine also notes, the Irish still have a long way to go, and their banks will need fresh capital as well.
Also looming large are ongoing concerns about the adequacy of the bailout funds cobbled together by Europe over the past two years. As my colleague James Kanter pointed out from Copenhagen last month, there are doubts among economic experts that even a firewall of $1 trillion would be enough if crises erupt in major countries like Spain and Italy simultaneously. 
All that is raising expectations and focusing attention - yet again - on the next European Union summit meeting, scheduled for June 28-29. 
An "informal dinner" last month in Brussels generated a lot of media noise over the putative clash between Ms. Merkel, stressing austerity, and the new French president, Franois Hollande, pushing growth. The more important news was buried in the closing statement read by the soft-spoken president of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy: 
There was general consensus that we need to strengthen the economic union to make it commensurate with the monetary union. I will report in June, in close cooperation with the President of the Commission, the President of the Euro Group and the President of the European Central Bank, on the main building blocks and on a working method to achieve this objective. 
That is the message that European leaders will be taking to the Group of 20 summit June 18-19 in Los Cabos, Mexico, where they are expected to come underyet more pressure to do something to avoid undermining the entire global economy. "We will inform our partners that we are in the process of reinforcing further our economic union to make it commensurate with monetary union," Mr. Van Rompuy wrote together with the European Commission president, Jos Manuel Barroso, in a letter last week.
What will that plan look like? Ms. Merkel has been laying out her ideas slowly over the past few months, talking about "a political union" with greater powers for European institutions. As Jean Pisani-Ferry noted on his blog, he and his colleagues at Bruegel have been promoting such ideas for a long time. "Will Europe bite the bullet?" he asks. 
"It would not be the first time they wait until they are on the edge of the cliff to take the decision they should have taken earlier. But it would not be the first time they end up taking the right decision." 
Still, whether the rest of the euro zone - especially head-strong countries like France - is ready for the loss of sovereignty that would entail is a wide open question. As one government official in Berlin told Reuters in a nicely done summary: "The fundamental question is relatively simple. Do our partners really want more Europe, or do they just want more German money?" 
In a speech over the weekend in Trento, Italy, that is going viral on Twitter, the billionaire financier George Soros gave the Europeans three months to answer the question. 

        
Hollande on European Leaders: They Talk a Lot
        
German Growth Gives Rare Boost to Euro
        
Time for Greece and the Euro to Part Ways?
        
Greeks Unite Against Lagarde After 'Tax-Dodgers' Jibe
        
Greece's Would-Be Savior Launches Charm Offensive

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EURO (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BAILOUTS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) Euro Crisis; Germany; Greece; Barroso, Jose Manuel Durao; Hollande, Francois; Merkel, Angela; Van Rompuy, Herman; Economic Conditions and Trends; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); International Trade and World Market; European Commission; European Monetary Union; Group of Twenty; Europe; Spain; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%) European Commission; European Monetary Union; Group of Twenty

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (62%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (51%) Barroso, Jose Manuel Durao; Hollande, Francois; Merkel, Angela; Van Rompuy, Herman

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (94%); BELGIUM (92%); GREECE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%) Europe; Germany; Greece; Spain

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



137 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: New Obama Ad Continues Focus on Romney's Term as Governor

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama continued his attacks on Mitt Romney's tenure as Massachusetts governor on Monday, releasing a new television ad that describes Mr. Romney's economic record in the state as a failure. 

 BODY:
President Obama continued his attacks on Mitt Romney's tenure as Massachusetts governor on Monday, releasing a new television ad that describes Mr. Romney's economic record in the state as a failure.
The ad, titled "Heard It Before," shows Mr. Romney saying that he speaks "the language of business." But the ad cites newspaper articles which suggest that Mr. Romney presided over one of "the worst economic records in the country."
"When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs," the narrator says. "And fell to forty-seventh in job creation. Fourth from the bottom."
Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, said the ad would run in nine battleground states. Mr. LaBolt said the amount of money being spent on the ad is "significant."
A spokeswoman for Mr. Romney dismissed the ad as an effort by Mr. Obama to change the subject from the country's economic condition during his watch.
"We're happy to compare the 4.7 percent unemployment rate Mitt Romney achieved in Massachusetts to President Obama's weak record any day," said Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman, in a statement. "President Obama's policies have failed to get Americans back to work - it's time for a president who has worked in the real world economy and understands how to get this economy moving again."
But Mr. Obama's campaign shows little willingness to back away from their attacks on Mr. Romney's record as governor. Last week, the campaign produced a Web video on the topic and held a related event on the steps of the Statehouse in Boston. 
In an appearance on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday, David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama's campaign, defended the approach.
"What we're arguing is whether he's qualified to call himself a job creator. That's not what he did in his business. That's not the purpose of his business, and it's certainly not what he did in Massachusetts where they had one of the worst economic records in the country," Mr. Axelrod said.
"So when you hold yourself out as an economical oracle and you say to people, 'Trust me, I know how to move the country forward,' and your record says something else, of course, you're going to get challenged for that," he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%) Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Massachusetts; Ad Watch; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID AXELROD (89%) Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



138 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: At Amazon's Warehouses, Cooler Times

BYLINE: DAVID STREITFELD


HIGHLIGHT: Amazon got in trouble last summer after a newspaper expos&#233; revealed the extreme conditions that its warehouse workers in Pennsylvania labored under. This summer, things will be different. 

 BODY:
One of the most-talked abouttechnology articles last year was a lengthy investigative effort by The Allentown, Pa., Morning Call documenting how Amazon warehouse workers were collapsing from the heat.
The crucial image in the story was of ambulances lined up in the parking lot, patiently waiting for workers to fall.
Some commentators said the moral of the story was that Americans had become wimps, but the general consensus was that Amazon's admirable zeal for efficiency had gone way too far. Some consumers said they were reconsidering their allegiance to the retailer.
This summer, things are cooler in Allentown, thanks to 40 rooftop air-conditioners installed in the 615,000-square-foot warehouse, the Morning Call said on Sundayin a lengthy update. The retailer told the paper it was spending $52 million to retrofit warehouses around the country with air-conditioning.
The original article is a finalist for a prestigious Loeb Award, which will be announced this month. One retail expert told the paper that it was the bad publicity that had forced Amazon's hand, but Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst with Forrester Research, thought it was most likely concern for electronic products. "I would like to think there was an element of humanity to the decision, but there's nothing in Amazon's history or in Jeff Bezos's public persona that would lead me to think that was the driver of the decision," the paper quoted her as saying.
Virtual products, of course, do not need traditional warehouses. Amazon announced on Monday a further expansion to its publishing empire, acquiring the 3,000-book backlist of Avalon Books. Avalon specializes in mysteries, westerns and romances. While the titles will be available in physical form for the dwindling number of old-fashioned readers, most of their market will likely be digital.

        
Amazon Plans Its Next Conquest: Your Closet
        
Amazon, Up in Flames
        
Amazon Has Tried Everything to Make Shopping Easier. Except This.
        
Daily Report: The Review Was Fake. The Refund Was Real.
        
Online Shoppers Are Rooting for the Little Guy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); PUBLISHING (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%) Amazon; retailing; Bezos, Jeffrey P; Air Conditioning; Shopping and Retail; Amazon.com Inc; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Retailing

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (77%) Bezos, Jeffrey P

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



139 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Marion O. Sandler, Former Golden West Co-Chief, Dies at 81

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Marion O. Sandler, a former banking executive whose sale of Golden West Financial to Wachovia had been blamed for contributing to the financial crisis, died on Friday at her home in San Francisco. She was 81. 

 BODY:
Marion O. Sandler, who with her husband transformed a two-office bank into one of the biggest savings and loan firms in the country, Golden West Financial, only to be accused of contributing to the financial crisis when they sold it to Wachovia in 2006, died on Friday at her home in San Francisco. She was 81.
The Sandler Foundation, a charitable organization that she and her husband, Herbert Sandler, had set up, announced her death but did not give a cause.
Herbert and Marion Sandler started Golden West as a small operation in Oakland, Calif., in 1963. Over the next 43 years it grew to become a giant lender, with $124 billion in assets and 285 savings branches across the country at its peak.
Selling Golden West to Wachovia for more than $25 billion was meant to be the crowning business achievement for the Sandlers, who reaped about $2.4 billion from the transaction. They poured much of their proceeds into the Sandler Foundation, which became one the biggest benefactors to nonprofits in the country. The investigative journalism outfit ProPublica is one of its recipients.
But the acquisition proved disastrous for Wachovia, which began to founder from the enormous burden of home loans it had absorbed. In the depths of the financial crisis, the bank was sold to Wells Fargo in a deal encouraged by the federal government.
Blame for the mess was cast far and wide, but the Sandlers were among the most prominent targets, despite their protests that they had nothing to do with Wachovia's fall. "Saturday Night Live" lampooned them in October 2008 as "people who should be shot." (NBC later removed the line from rebroadcasts of the skit and from its Web site, and the show's executive producer, Lorne Michaels, expressed regret, saying he had not realized the characters in the sketch were real people.) And Time magazine ranked the couple in its list of "25 people to blame for the financial crisis."
The Sandlers pushed back, pointing to their 43-year track record at Golden West. In a three-page rebuttal to the Time article, they wrote, "Once the facts are known, it is just plain wrong to pin the blame on us."
Marion Osher was born on Oct. 17, 1930, and grew up in Biddeford, Me., the youngest of five children born to Samuel and Leah Osher. It was a family heavily involved in both business and philanthropy.
She graduated from Wellesley College in 1952, earning Phi Beta Kappa distinction, and received a master's of business administration degree from New York University in 1958. She became a rarity of the time: a high-ranking woman on Wall Street, working as a banking analyst at Dominick & Dominick and then at Oppenheimer & Company, following savings and loan associations.
She met Herb Sandler, then a Manhattan lawyer, on a beach in the Hamptons in 1960. They married the next year, and moved to California to try running their own lending operation.
Supported by a bank loan, they purchased a savings and loan for $3.8 million and renamed it Golden West, with branches operating under the World Savings Bank name.
Mrs. Sandler, who liked to knit scarves during meetings, was seen as the marketing and consumer brains of the firm. Her husband, who survives her, was the strategist.
Mrs. Sandler was one of the first women to become a chief executive of a Fortune 500 company and one of the longest-serving.
Under the Sandlers, Golden West, showing limited mortgage losses, was praised as one of the best-run lenders in the United States. Unusually, the bank kept its loans on its books, rather than breaking them up and selling them to other investors, a practice known on Wall Street as securitization. To the Sandlers, securitization made for lazy lenders who did not scrutinize the mortgages they sold.
Yet the firm was unafraid of pioneering new forms of lending. Among them was the option-adjustable rate mortgage, or option-ARM. Introduced in the early 1980s, it allowed borrowers, temporarily, to make small monthly loan repayments that did not cover interest. Golden West eventually marketed the product, calling it Pick-a-Pay, to low-income customers who could afford the low initial payments but who risked being sunk when larger installments were demanded.
By the time of the Golden West sale in 2006, the Sandlers had already established themselves as philanthropists, giving to Human Rights Watch, the American Civil Liberties Union and other nonprofit organizations. They helped found the Center for Responsible Lending, which is devoted to protecting homeowners, and the Center for American Progress, a liberal research center.
The Wachovia deal provided the Sandlers with the capital to found ProPublica, whose investigative journalism appears both on its own site and in collaboration with other news organizations, among them The New York Times. All told, the couple donated more than $550 million and publicly committed to donating most of their wealth as part of the Giving Pledge, a philanthropy campaign that Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates helped organize.
But Wachovia's near demise cast a long shadow on the Sandlers' reputation. Jeered at as an expensive folly, the Golden West acquisition came at the height of the housing boom. But after the financial crisis hit, Wachovia found itself struggling under the weight of mortgages that had quickly soured, including loans picked up from Golden West. Wachovia said in late 2008 that it expected to lose $26.1 billion on a portfolio of Golden West loans worth some $124 billion.
Indeed, Wachovia was sold to Wells Fargo for $15.1 billion, 40 percent less than it had paid for Golden West alone.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Sandler is survived by her brothers, Bernard and Harold Osher; her daughter, Susan; her son, James; and two grandchildren.

        
Tackling Reams of Bank Data Can Take Diligence, and Trust
        
Raymond James Settles Auction-Rate Securities Charges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); LAWYERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); JOURNALISM (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Golden West Financial; Herbert Sandler; Marion O. Sandler; Wachovia; Sandler, Herbert M; Sandler, Marion O; Deaths (Obituaries); Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Golden West Financial Corp; Financial Services; Obituaries

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%); WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Golden West Financial Corp

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%); WST (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: HERB SANDLER (94%) Sandler, Herbert M; Sandler, Marion O

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



140 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Voters in the Political Spotlight

BYLINE: STEVEN YACCINO


HIGHLIGHT: On the eve of Wisconsin's recall election, many voters are getting a flash of d&#233;j&#224; vu. 

 BODY:
FORT ATKINSON, Wis. - On the eve of Wisconsin's recall election, many voters here are getting a flash of dj vu.
The two candidates on the ticket Tuesday - Gov. Scott Walker, a first-term Republican, and Tom Barrett, the Democratic mayor of Milwaukee - faced off in a 2010 race for governor that Mr. Walker won with 52 percent of the vote. But this time, with less than 24 hours before Wisconsin decides whether Mr. Walker will keep his job, there is one significant difference: the whole nation is watching.
"It's a little overwhelming," Earl Peterson, 79, said of the attention his state is getting. "You hear about it so much. It's too much."
Unrest in Wisconsin and the effort to remove Mr. Walker from office evolved after the governor stripped collective bargaining rights from most of Wisconsin's public workers last year, drawing tens of thousands of protesters to the State Capitol in Madison.
Mr. Walker's fight to stay in office has since become about a much larger national battle over labor unions and whether voters are likely to punish politicians who cut collective bargaining rights. There is also a lingering sense that the outcome of Tuesday's vote could have an impact on President Obama's chances in November of winning Wisconsin, a much-needed state.
As a result, the recall contest has attracted millions of dollars from out-of-state donors, a revolving door ofhigh-profile politicianson the campaign trail and the scrutiny of political pundits and news outlets nationwide.

"Everybody is looking at us," said Jennifer James, 37, who works as a nurse's aid in a town nearby and said she would support Mr. Barrett on Tuesday. "But it really doesn't bother me. I just do my thing and hope it encourages people to stand up for what they believe in."
Her mother, Barbara, a Walker supporter, seemed more concerned with the state's reputation. "I think we look stupid," she said, calling the recall effort unnecessary.
Residents of Fort Atkinson, a small town sandwiched between Madison and Milwaukee, say they have seen fewer yard signs and candidate appearances here than in other places around the state. Drive less than an hour east or west, and it is more Democrat-leaning territory, yet Mr. Walker won this rural county easily with 61 percent in 2010.
That has not stopped a barrage of campaign telephone calls and canvassers from coming to town. And a flood of television and radio ads has annoyed many.
Still, there is also a sense of pride when some talk about Wisconsin's role at the center of this national fight.
"People know tomorrow's election is a pretty big deal, with implications going beyond just our state," said Shari Jensen, 45, an occupational therapist at a local hospital who favors Mr. Barrett. "People are more fired up than usual."
But Linda Sherratt, 58, a supporter of Mr. Walker, was concerned that the political volatility in Wisconsin and the national spotlight it has resulted in may hurt the state's economy. "Would you bring a business to Wisconsin right now?" she asked, adding that she doubted things would return to normal any time soon.
Others have already started talking about what will happen next, regardless of who wins, and whether a divided state will begin to heal or will remain polarized for years to come.
"I think the whole process has been a lot of wasted time and energy and funds that could have been used much better," said John Hedrick, 69, a Roman Catholic priest from Beloit who declined to say how he would vote.
"People want it to be over," Father Hedrick added. "They want to move on."

        
Your Questions About the Wisconsin Recall
        
Bill Clinton Campaigns Against Walker in Wisconsin Recall Election
        
Wisconsin G.O.P. Sees Insurance in Placeholder Candidates
        
Romney Target of April Fool's Joke
        
Romney Predicts a Victory in Wisconsin Primary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) recall elections; Wisconsin; Barrett, Tom; Walker, Scott K; Elections

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Barrett, Tom; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



141 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Some Questions to Ask Mr. Dimon

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Some questions that members of the Senate Banking Committee should ask Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, when he testifies next week. 

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon's trip to Capitol Hill next week to explain his bank's multibillion-dollar trading debacle could quickly devolve into Washington Gotcha Theater.
But it shouldn't. It should be used to draw out some real answers that will help inform the public and lawmakers about the risks of our banking system.
Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, has been pretty blunt about the trading losses, calling them sloppy, stupid and bad judgment. But, so far at least, he has sidestepped explaining in any detail how they happened and what actions the firm has since taken.
Given Mr. Dimon's voluble views on regulations - he has long suggested the industry is overregulated, criticizing a former Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker, and publicly questioning the current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke - his testimony on June 13 before the Senate Banking Committee is particularly important to the debate over banking reform.
Here are some questions the lawmakers might consider asking Mr. Dimon in an effort to elicit illuminating and thoughtful answers:
 On April 13, about a month before you disclosed the $2 billion trading loss, you called speculation about outsize risks in your chief investment office "a tempest in a teapot." What, if any, analysis had you personally conducted before making that statement? Do you believe you had all of the appropriate information at the time? If not, why not? Do you believe that you were provided with misinformation or were otherwise purposely misled?
 The firm's chief investment office recently changed the way it calculated how much money the unit could lose in a given day. That appears to be one of the reasons so much could be lost so quickly. What were you told about the rationale for making the change? How involved were you in the decision? And were regulators briefed before the change?
 Your chief investment office valued or marked certain securities at higher values than other divisions within the bank valued them, according to people briefed on the group's valuations. Is that true? If so, how is it possible that one division could value the exact same asset differently from a different division? Are there other divisions of the bank that value assets differently? What steps have you taken to synchronize the monitoring and valuing of securities and other assets across the bank's divisions?
 In a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission commenting on the Volcker Rule, your firm took great pains to advocate for broad macroeconomic portfolio hedging, the same kind of hedging that took place in your chief investment office. You made the case that your firm successfully put hedges in place ahead of the financial crisis that were instrumental to the firm's success.
However, you now point out that under the Volcker Rule, some of those trades would not have been permitted because "(1) the actions taken were forward looking and anticipatory; (2) the firm's purchases of the credit derivatives may not have been deemed 'reasonably correlated' with the underlying risk, as different instruments were used to effect the hedging strategy than the assets giving rise to the risk; and (3) the gains realized upon the unwind of the hedges could have been determined to be larger than the countervailing risks." While the firm should be commended for its success in navigating the financial crisis, why should the trades referred to in your letter be considered hedges and not speculative bets?
 If portfolio hedging were banned by the Volcker Rule or other legislation, what would be the impact on JPMorgan's customers? Would you make fewer loans? Would prices go up?
 Your chief investment office has put money in corporate bonds as opposed to less risky Treasury bonds, then used derivatives to bet on directions of the market. That indicates that the purpose of the unit, unlike at some of your competitors, is to generate profit rather than protect the bank from losses. Should the investment office be a profit center? What was your role in the unit taking on more risk?
 More than 100 regulators work inside your headquarters to monitor and regulate your firm. Why did they miss this? When did they first raise questions about the London trades? Were they provided with all of the information requested? Were they ever misled? Did anyone at the firm ever push back on concerns that the Fed or regulators from any other agency raised? Most important: Do you believe that the regulators should have been able to spot these trades? And if not, what could, or should, be done to help them identify such a risky trade?
 Ina Drew, the chief investment officer in charge of the London group that made the bad trades, retired within days of your disclosure of the losses. Ms. Drew was paid $14.1 million in 2011, one of the highest at your firm and in the industry. You have said you would consider clawbacks for people involved in the losses. Your proxy statement says that an employee's pay will be clawed back if he or she "engages in conduct that causes material financial or reputational harm." Have you clawed back any of her previous income or that of others in the group? If yes, how much? If not, why not? Also, did you strike any financial arrangement with Ms. Drew as part of her agreement to retire? Have you struck financial deals with any of the other executives who are expected to leave the firm by the end of the year? If so, please provide the details and the business decision to do so.
 Bruno Iksil, your trader nicknamed the London Whale, had made a $100 billion derivatives bet to create what your chief investment office considered a hedge. However, such a large trade made JPMorgan virtually the entire market for a certain kind of derivative, which makes it particularly difficult to unwind. Given JPMorgan's size, is it too big to hedge?

        
JPMorgan's Trading Loss Is Said to Rise at Least 50%
        
Jamie Dimon Shows Some Love for Volcker Rule

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%) Bruno Iksil; hedging; Ina Drew; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Volcker Rule; Dimon, James; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; House of Representatives; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate Committee on Banking; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) House of Representatives; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (95%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



142 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Takes a Hard Jab at Romney

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Former President Bill Clinton, at a fund-raiser for President Obama on Monday, said having Mitt Romney in the White House would be "calamitous for our country and the world." 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton, days after lauding Mitt Romney for a "sterling business career" as a private investor, said on Monday that, as president, Mr. Romney "would be, in my opinion, calamitous for our country and the world."
And with that blunt denunciation, delivered at President Obama's side during a fund-raiser in the Manhattan home of a billionaire hedge-fund executive, Mr. Clinton sought to quash the recent chatter in the media and from the Romney campaign that his earlier remarks amounted to an off-message endorsement of Mr. Romney's qualifications to take Mr. Obama's job.
For Mr. Clinton, it was a minor cleanup operation compared with past episodes in his up-and-down relationship with Mr. Obama since 2008, when Mr. Obama defeated Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination. Their joint appearance at three fund-raisers in New York City on Monday night was the second of three such get-togethers they have planned; separately in coming months, Mr. Clinton will be what one campaign official called "an active surrogate" for Mr. Obama in the president's fight for re-election. 
In an art-filled room crowded with about 50 people who each paid $40,000 to attend the reception, in the Upper East Side residence of Marc Lasry, a founder of the hedge fund Avenue Capital Group, Mr. Clinton said that Republicans' politics call for "constant conflict" and as for their policies, "the economics are crazy."
"The Republican Congress and their nominee for president, Governor Romney, have adopted Europe's economic policies," Mr. Clinton said. "Their economic policy is austerity and unemployment now, and then a long-term budget that would explode the debt when the economy recovers so the interest rates would be so high, nobody would be able to do anything."
In contrast, Mr. Clinton said, Mr. Obama's economic agenda is "job growth now, and long-term budget restraint."
Mr. Obama, he said, "has good politics, he's got a good record, he's made the best of a very challenging situation, he deserves to be re-elected." 
And he "has a pretty good secretary of state, too," Mr. Clinton added, to laughter and applause at the reference to his wife.
Hours before the event, the Romney campaign sent e-mails to reporters recalling not only Mr. Clinton's praise for Mr. Romney's business success in a television interview last week - at a time when the Obama campaign is charging that Mr. Romney, as a private-equity executive, put investors' profits ahead of workers' jobs - but also some derogatory comments that Mr. Clinton made about then-Senator Obama during the hard-fought Democratic nomination race.
One Romney news release was titled, "The Odd Couple: Presidents Obama, Clinton Give Their Regards to Broadway."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); CAUCUSES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



143 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Turning Our Backs On Unions

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''The Great Divergence'' by Timothy Noah is a book about income inequality, and if you're thinking, ''Do we really need another book about income inequality?'' the answer is yes. We need this one.
It stands out in part because Noah, a columnist for The New Republic, is not content to simply shake his fists at the heavens in anger. He spends exactly one chapter on what he calls the ''rise of the stinking rich'' -- that is, the explosion in executive pay and what he calls ''the financialization of the economy,'' which has enriched one small segment of society at the expense of everyone else. 
Mostly, he grapples with the deep, hard-to-tickle-out reasons that the gap between the rich and the middle class in the United States has widened to such alarming proportions. How much have technological advances contributed to income inequality? Globalization and off-shoring? The necessity of having a college education to land a decent-paying job? The decline of labor unions?
That last one, I have to admit, caught me up short. My parents were both public high school teachers, who proudly walked picket lines when the need arose. My hometown, Providence, R.I., was about as pro-union a city as you could find outside the Rust Belt. But like many college-educated children of union parents, I have never been a member of a union, and I viewed them with mild disdain.
As Andy Stern, the former president of the Service Employees International Union, put it to me: ''White-collar professionals tend to appreciate what unions did for their parents. But they don't view today's janitors or nurse's aides in the same way.'' Instead, they -- or, rather, we -- tend to focus on the many things that are wrong with unions, exemplified these days by the pensions of public service employees that are breaking the backs of so many cities and states. Unions seem like a spent force, and we tend not to lament their demise.
Noah includes himself as one of those liberals ''who spent too much time beating up unions,'' as he told me recently. (He and I are both members of the informal Washington Monthly alumni society.) His thinking began to change in the early 1990s when he read ''Which Side Are You On?'' It is a powerful meditation on the difficulties unions face, written by Thomas Geoghegan, a Chicago labor lawyer. Researching ''The Great Divergence'' reinforced Noah's growing view that when liberals turned their backs on unions -- when they put, in his words, ''identity politics over economic justice'' -- they made a terrible mistake.
Noah places the high-water mark for unionism in the mid-1950s, when nearly 40 percent of American workers were either union members or ''nonunion members who were nonetheless covered by union contracts.'' In the early postwar years, even the Chamber of Commerce believed that ''collective bargaining is a part of the democratic process,'' as its then-president noted in a statement.
But, in the late-1970s, union membership began falling off a cliff, brought on by a variety of factors, including jobs moving offshore and big labor's unsavory reputation. Government didn't help either: Ronald Reagan's firing of the air traffic controllers in 1981 sent an unmistakable signal that companies could run roughshod over federal laws intended to protect unions -- which they've done ever since.
The result is that today unions represent 12 percent of the work force. ''Draw one line on a graph charting the decline in union membership, then superimpose a second line charting the decline in middle-class income share,'' writes Noah, ''and you will find that the two lines are nearly identical.'' Richard Freeman, a Harvard economist, has estimated that the decline of unions explains about 20 percent of the income gap.
This makes perfect sense, of course. Company managements don't pay workers any more than they have to -- look, for instance, at Walmart, one of the most virulently antiunion companies in the country. In their heyday, unions represented a countervailing force that could extract money for its workers that helped keep them in the middle class. Noah notes that a JPMorgan economist calculated that the majority of increased corporate profits between 2000 and 2007 were the result of ''reductions in wages and benefits.'' That makes sense, too. At the same time labor has been in decline, the power of shareholders has been on the rise.
''Say what you want about the abuses that labor committed,'' says Noah. ''They were adversarial. They weren't concerned enough about the general prosperity. Some of them were mobbed up. But they were necessary institutions.''
Not surprisingly, Noah closes his book with a call for a revival of the labor movement. It is hard to see that happening any time soon. And unions need to change if they are to become viable again. But if liberals really want to reverse income inequality, they should think seriously about rejoining labor's side.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); WRITERS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (67%); OFFSHORING (67%); LAWYERS (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



144 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Party Affiliation Is the Big Polarizer

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Americans of different races are no more polarized in their political views than they were 25 years ago. Men and women are no more polarized either. The same goes for people of different education levels, different income groups and different levels of religiosity. 
The one big exception, according to a poll from the Pew Research Center, is political party. Self-described Democrats and self-described Republicans hold beliefs that contrast much more sharply than a generation ago on a wide range of issues, including environmental policy, the safety net and immigration.
''Unlike 25 years ago, party affiliation more than anything else drives how Americans think about just about all issues,'' said Andrew Kohut, Pew's president.
Together, the trends suggest that Americans are not vastly more polarized than they were in the late 1980s but that they have increasingly sorted themselves into two ideologically cohesive political parties.
During this time, Republicans have moved farther to the right -- on economic issues, at least -- than Democrats have moved to the left. Asked whether the government should take care of people who cannot take care of themselves, 75 percent of Democrats now say yes, down only slightly from 79 percent in 1987. But just 40 percent of Republicans say so, down from 62 percent in 1987.
Republicans' support for stricter laws to protect the environment has fallen even more sharply.
But the views of Democrats have shifted on some economic issues as well, with Democrats becoming more strongly in favor of government steps to ensure equal opportunity. On social issues, like gay rights, Democrats have moved more than Republicans.
The poll, released Monday, suggested that Democrats have opinions closer to those of the country as a whole on gay rights and Wall Street. Republicans are closer to the national mood on affirmative action and whether the government should go deeper into debt to help the poor.
The poll also found that the share of self-identified Republicans has declined over the past two decades to about 24 percent of the country, from about 31 percent. The share of Democrats has stayed about steady - to 32 percent, from 33 percent - while the share of independents has risen to 38 percent, from 29 percent.
In essence, the parties appear to have lost some of the people who were closer to the middle of political spectrum and retained those closer to the extremes. Today, 68 percent of Republicans identify themselves as conservative, up from 60 percent in 2000. Among Democrats, 38 percent identify as liberal, up from 28 percent in 2000.
The national telephone poll was conducted April 4-15 with 3,008 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRENDS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); RELIGION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); LGBT RIGHTS (64%); IMMIGRATION (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



145 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Asthma by the Numbers

 BODY:
Federal health officials recently issued a gloomy report noting that the percentage of Americans suffering from asthma reached a record high of 8.4 percent in 2010, up from 7.3 percent in 2001. An estimated 25.7 million people had asthma in 2010, including 18.7 million adults and seven million children below the age of 18. It is a frightening disease in which sufferers struggle to breathe. In severe attacks, victims can die. 
Experts don't know for sure what causes asthma, but sounder public policy could help control some of the triggers. Stronger regulations to reduce exposure to cigarette smoke and to control air pollution are especially important.
That is why New York City recently had a two-week crackdown at elementary schools in neighborhoods with high rates of asthma to stop vehicles from violating a little-known law that limits idling in school zones to one minute. New York City should keep up enforcement, and other cities should follow.
Asthma can be managed by those who pay careful attention to symptoms and take medications promptly. The federal government has been financing programs for more than a decade to help asthmatics get the care and education they need. And some hospital systems have started programs to monitor asthmatics and improve their treatment.
The death rate from asthma has been declining for a number of years. But the disease remains a significant health and economic burden that sends victims to hospitals and emergency rooms and causes children to miss school and adults to miss work. The estimated $56 billion annual cost will only rise as the number of sufferers grows. Clearly, a lot more needs to be done to reduce the triggers and manage this disease.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTHMA (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); AIR QUALITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



146 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Overly Aggressive Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Trimming a Bloated Health Care System'' (Personal Health, May 29): Two years ago a rehabilitation physician to whom I was referred for lower back pain ''routinely'' ordered an M.R.I., one of the tests that the American Academy of Family Physicians says should be questioned. The test indicated the presence of enlarged abnormal lymph nodes, which was confirmed by a subsequent CT scan and resulted in the detection and diagnosis of lymphoma, a life-threatening cancer. 
This serendipitous finding would not have happened (or would have occurred after the loss of precious time) had the physician decided that such imaging tests were excessive. Thus, what is good for society in general is not necessarily good for the individual, and the ethical, economic and medical issues are more complex than they might initially seem.
David Glenwick
Manhattan
To the Editor:
I think this focus on treatment cost misses the biggest opportunities for saving on health care costs.
We have a huge number of people who are overweight, don't exercise,
spend too much time sitting, eat large amounts of sugar and saturatedfat and abuse various chemicals, including nicotine and alcohol. The result is lots of people with diabetes, heart disease, liver and kidney problems -- not to mention back, tendon and muscle problems. We also have huge amounts of pollutants creating asthma and other respiratory problems. We are exposed to environmental mercury, lead and other toxic chemicals.
Addressing those causes of health care costs is difficult, but not that much more difficult than preventing profitable medical treatments from being overused. You might as well tell Coke and Pepsi to sell fewer soft drinks. So long as people have choices, their choices are going to be manipulated for profit.
Ross Williams
Grand Rapids, Minn.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CANCER (90%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (77%); LYMPHOMA (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (76%); FAMILY PRACTICE (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (66%); DIABETES (65%); ASTHMA (64%); SOFT DRINKS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



147 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: A Canopy As Social Cathedral

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
One of the best new works of architecture in New York isn't a flashy skyscraper or museum but a fairly modest structure, an angular glass canopy over an obscure but busy pedestrian street called North End Way, in the shadow of One World Trade Center no less.
Designed by Preston Scott Cohen, the canopy covers 11,000 square feet of an easement in Battery Park City; effectively, North End Way is a north-south passageway or alley, lined with shops and restaurants. Part of what makes this a notable public space is the quality of construction: the granite sidewalk, the lighting, the stainless-steel and glass storefronts, the street furniture. Goldman Sachs, whose headquarters at 200 West Street backs onto North End Way, owns and developed the arcade, which is zoned for public use. But it's the canopy, which Goldman also commissioned, that formally elevates what is really just a gap between two buildings into something almost as inspired as the nave of a great Gothic cathedral. 
That's the power of architecture. I've stopped by on different days, morning and evening. Cafe tables spill from the restaurants. Shake Shack anchors the north end of the arcade, at Murray Street, and it's always packed with kids coming from the ball fields next door. Rogers Marvel, the New York firm, designed a striking wine shop, Vintry, all white and low, with sexy Jetsons curves. People also take breathers near Vesey Street on the granite bench by Ken Smith, who also came up with the low, lighted walls dividing the cafe tables from pedestrian traffic.
But mostly everybody gawks at the canopy.
It is composed of three tilting, jagged triangles. Picture giant shards of glass. They filter light gracefully through enameled panes, the light shifting with the passing day. The longest triangle is Mr. Cohen's big statement: It slices the arcade, which bends toward the south end, along the diagonal. That sweeping diagonal brings together what could otherwise be -- precisely because North End Way isn't straight -- a disjointed space. Stretching the length of the easement, the diagonal provides counterpoint to the regular beat of the canopy's steel ribbing and the modules of 200 West's facade.
This all may sound complicated, but there's an elegant simplicity to the three triangles slung from the same long wall. Those glass planes explode outward, upward and downward from the horizontal line where the canopy connects to 200 West. The tension between that steady horizontal and the fun-house effects of the triangles is what gives North End Way its architectural drama.
The arcade belongs to an informal network of pedestrian circulation on the West Side of Manhattan, which includes the riverfront paths and parks, among them the High Line. It's kind of an inside-out High Line. People walk the length of the High Line to go from one spot to another but also just to be up there and look around; they pause in the arcade too, because the canopy makes it a destination.
Mr. Cohen runs a firm in Cambridge, Mass., and is also chairman of the architecture department at Harvard. He's known for designing the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, an origami-like building on a triangular plot with rectangular galleries inside, spiraling around a sky-lighted atrium composed of smoothly curved, hyperbolic paraboloids: double-bent planes, like saddles. Along with so many other architects today, he is focused on digital modeling and complex geometry.
Mr. Cohen had been recommended to Goldman by Harry Cobb, the veteran architect at Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, who oversaw the meticulous design of 200 West, a 43-story, $2.1 billion tower, finished a couple of years ago. Goldman, unusually, also hired a variety of up-and-coming architects to design spaces in and around the building: Office dA, from Boston, devised an employee cafeteria; Architecture Research Office, the New York firm, conference rooms and a fitness center; SHoP, also from New York, a bronze and wood-paneled auditorium; Kuwabara Payne McKenna Blumberg, from Toronto, three floors on top of the building, as sober, silent and plush as the interior of a Bentley.
And Mr. Cohen took on the canopy. He had petitioned for it, the bend in the arcade presenting what seemed to him an irresistible geometric challenge. That bend derives from how the Conrad New York hotel, on the opposite side of the easement from 200 West, juts into the passageway like the prow of some immense ship. Mr. Cobb adjusted the facade of 200 West so that it responded to that bend, making sure that pedestrians could still look straight from one end of the arcade through the other, a minor but ingenious stroke that enhanced the impact of Mr. Cohen's big diagonal.
You see the effect if you're standing on the Murray Street side, looking down North End Way, where the slanting canopy almost makes the sidewalk look like the pitched curve of a racetrack. From there the hotel also appears to have rammed into the canopy, shattering, crumpling and driving its pieces upward, while from the other end the canopy looks as if it could nearly lie flat. Perceptions shift as you move through the space, in other words. I was reminded of walking through Richard Serra's torqued ellipses.
The canopy was briefly unveiled in 2010, but then the passageway became a construction site because Goldman, which had bought the hotel four years earlier, started renovations. Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, the New York firm, redid the facade, removing large expanses of blind brick wall and replacing them with a curtain wall that coordinated better with 200 West and the canopy. The Conrad replaced what had been an Embassy Suites. The interiors were elaborately revamped. The arcade reopened this spring.
I mentioned Richard Serra. Sculpture is always closer than architecture to pure form, being mostly liberated from all the obvious constraints (environmental, economic, technological and political) that shape any building's design. Architecture is a contaminated art in this sense, but that is also a virtue. It's a social art. It creates social spaces. The best architecture embraces and pushes beyond this, formally.
There's a metaphor at play. A free society consensually accepts its governing burdens and principles. Constraint and freedom: the essence of good architecture and a healthy culture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The canopy designed by Preston Scott Cohen covers North End Way, a pedestrian alley in Battery Park City.(C1)
The angular glass canopy, commissioned by Goldman Sachs for its headquarters, elevates a gap between two buildings into something almost as inspired as the nave of a Gothic cathedral.
 Vintry Fine Wines, with a striking design by the New York architecture firm Rogers Marvel, is a shop in the arcade. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ZONING (76%); RETAILERS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



148 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OUT THERE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Mystery of Big Data's Parallel Universe Brings Fear, and a Thrill

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Not long ago, a woman in Tacoma, Wash., received a suggestion from Facebook that she ''friend'' another woman. She didn't know the other woman, but she followed through, as many of us have, innocently laying our cookie-crumb trails through cyberspace, only to get a surprise.
On the other woman's profile page was a wedding picture -- of her and the first woman's husband, now exposed for all the cyberworld to see as a bigamist. 
And so it goes in the era of what is called Big Data, in which more and more information about our lives -- where we shop and what we buy, indeed where we are right now -- the economy, the genomes of countless organisms we can't even name yet, galaxies full of stars we haven't counted, traffic jams in Singapore and the weather on Mars tumbles faster and faster through bigger and bigger computers down to everybody's fingertips, which are holding devices with more processing power than the Apollo mission control. Big Data probably knows more about us than we ourselves do, but is there stuff that Big Data itself doesn't know it knows? Big Data is watching us, but who or what is watching Big Data?
It is perhaps time to be afraid. Very afraid, suggests the science historian George Dyson, author of a recent biography of John von Neumann, one of the inventors of the digital computer. In ''A Universe of Self-Replicating Code,'' a conversation published on the Web site Edge, Mr. Dyson says that the world's bank of digital information, growing at a rate of roughly five trillion bits a second, constitutes a parallel universe of numbers and codes and viruses with its own ''physics'' and ''biology.''
There are things going on inside that universe that we don't know about, he points out -- except when it produces unpleasant surprises, as it did during the ''flash crash'' of the stock market in May 2010. And we had better find out what they are.
Where is Hari Seldon when we need him?
Unfortunately, he's not real -- yet. Hari Seldon, a mathematician and ''psychohistorian,'' who had figured out the laws governing history and society, was the central figure in Isaac Asimov's magisterial ''Foundation'' trilogy. Set thousands of years in the future, the books follow Seldon's and his followers' attempts to preserve civilization during the impending collapse of the Galactic Empire.
There is something both spooky and grand about the idea that our lives are part of patterns and currents still invisible to us, like climate cycles yet undetected in the geological record. Or maybe not so grand: In Kurt Vonnegut's novel ''The Sirens of Titan,'' all of human evolution and history has been manipulated from afar to deliver a widget about the size and shape of an old-fashioned beer can opener to a robot astronaut stranded by a broken spaceship on that Saturnian moon.
Nevertheless, if you could discover those principles, you might be able -- dare I say it? -- to rule the world.
Both Paul Krugman, the liberal Nobel laureate economist and Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, and Newt Gingrich, the conservative former House speaker and presidential candidate, have admitted to being inspired as young men by the dream of being Hari Seldon.
Mr. Krugman told The New Yorker a couple of years ago that it was the lure of discovering such laws that made him want to be an economist.
You might think that the ''physics'' of these systems should not be a mystery, since we created them. But that does not mean we know what will come out of them. Alan Turing, the British mathematician and computer pioneer who was born 100 years ago this month, showed that even a simple routine or set of instructions left to run endlessly can produce complex results. It ''can (indeed will) produce statements (and behavior) that we cannot necessarily understand,'' wrote Mr. Dyson in an e-mail.
Surprises -- what the complexity theorists call emergent properties -- are part of the game. Do ants know they are in an anthill?
In the 1970 science fiction movie ''Colossus: the Forbin Project'' -- a favorite among computer scientists, including Mr. Dyson -- scientists create a supercomputer network. The first thing Colossus discovers after being turned on is that there is a similar network in the Soviet Union. They join forces and take over the world.
I wondered if such surprises occurred in the computer models used by the financial world. So I reached out to another Hari Seldon admirer, J. Doyne Farmer, a physicist and complexity theorist at the Santa Fe Institute in New Mexico and a founder of the Prediction Company, which is now owned by UBS, the giant Swiss bank.
Dr. Farmer said classical economics had failed miserably to provide the right data for us to understand ourselves. He and others have begun to develop so-called agent-based models of the economy, asking in effect how the seemingly random behavior of individual ants can give rise to anthills with all their pulsing purpose, form and intelligence.
It works great for ants, and it's pretty to think that we might have something to learn about ourselves from our little six-legged friends as they carry off the crumbs from another picnic. Even if it means there is nothing more profound than a 22nd-century beer-can opener in our future.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELWOOD H. SMITH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WOMEN (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); POLYGAMY (76%); HISTORY (75%); BIOLOGY (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); WEB SITES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); WRITERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); SPACE EXPLORATION (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (88%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); MARS (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); SINGAPORE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



149 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Tech Boom Brings Jobs and Worries

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Malia Wollan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- When Twitter moves into its new headquarters in downtown San Francisco this month, it will occupy three floors of an 11-story 1937 Art Deco building that has sat shuttered for five years. Outside, its blue bird logo will replace the former main tenant's sign, whose analog clocks remain frozen at 9:18, 4:33 and other times past.
Far from Silicon Valley's self-enclosed campuses, Twitter and other tech start-ups are gravitating to an urban core here that has defied development for decades. Its soon-to-be neighbors include liquor stores, check-cashing stores and discount hotels.
At the Ironwok Japanese and Chinese restaurant, whose half-torn storefront banner flapped in the wind on a recent afternoon, the owners were waiting for Twitter with the same mixture of expectation and trepidation shared by much of the city toward the second tech boom in a little over a decade. 
''Of course, Twitter is good for the city, but how about me?'' said the owner, Jenny Liu, 41, explaining that her landlord was raising her monthly rent to $12,000 from $8,000.
Even more than the dot-com bubble of the 1990s, this boom could transform the fabric of the city.
This time, Twitter, Zynga, Yelp and other social network companies favored by venture capitalists have made San Francisco their home, creating jobs and raising commercial rents. At the same time, a growing number of young Silicon Valley workers, drawn by San Francisco's urban charms, are also moving into the city as commuters and further raising rents.
In a city often regarded as unfriendly to business, Mayor Edwin M. Lee, elected last year with the tech industry's strong backing, has aggressively courted start-ups.
But this boom has also raised fears about the tech industry's growing political clout and its spillover economic effects. Apartment rents have soared to record highs as affordable housing advocates warn that a new wave of gentrification will price middle-class residents out of the city. At risk, many say, are the very qualities that have drawn generations of outsiders here, like the city's diversity and creativity. Families, black residents, artists and others will increasingly be forced across the bridge to Oakland, they warn.
''Is Oakland Cooler Than San Francisco?'' The San Francisco Bay Guardian captured the prevailing angst on a recent cover.
Kenneth Rosen, an economist and expert on real estate at the University of California, Berkeley, said that the boom was starting to hurt the ''poor and middle class'' but that it would benefit the ''upper middle class.'' Its full impact will not be felt for another couple of years, he said, adding, ''We are early on in this boom.''
Mayor Lee said he would manage the city's transition by furthering economic development while preserving its traditional qualities. Mr. Lee, who began his career as an advocate for the poor and housing rights, said his current priority -- creating jobs -- reflected his evolution on civil rights.
''I think the civil rights movement is no longer advocating from the outside,'' he said. ''It's economic civil rights. You get people a job, you build their economic foundation, and then, if you set the right tone, they will start helping you build communities. We can't do it with government-funded programs. We have do it with the private sector.''
With the tech industry generating most new jobs, Mr. Lee pushed through tax breaks for Twitter and other companies willing to move to downtown's Mid-Market, a section with one of the city's highest vacancy rates that he described as ''our skid row.'' Those breaks and others on stock options were necessary, he said, to keep rapidly growing start-ups from leaving the city and attracting new ones.
Twitter, which moved to its current location in another part of the city in 2009 with only 62 employees, plans to transplant its 800 San Francisco-based employees into its new 215,000-square-foot headquarters, said Karen Wickre, a company spokeswoman. The city estimates that Twitter may have 2,600 employees here within six years.
The tax breaks won Mr. Lee, a Democrat, the backing of Ron Conway, the venture capitalist who, despite being a longtime Republican, became one of the mayor's biggest fund-raisers in his election to a full term in November. The move, Mr. Conway said, reflected San Francisco's growing role in this tech boom, compared with the dot-com era during which the center of gravity was nearly an hour's drive south, in Silicon Valley.
''Social media companies are tending to locate in cities so they can be in the audience, so to speak,'' Mr. Conway said. Unlike dot-com companies, he added, most today are already profitable. ''So this boom is going to be very, very sustainable and it's going to have a permanent impact, a permanent positive impact, on the culture and economy of San Francisco.''
A few months ago, Mr. Conway and others created sf.citi, an umbrella organization of 250 tech companies here. While representing the industry's interests, the organization hopes to build civic ties by supporting training programs to create entry-level and support jobs in tech, said Mr. Conway, the group's chairman.
But critics say the city is becoming too beholden to tech, pointing out that the mayor's office recently intervened on two regulatory matters that would have hurt two start-ups backed by Mr. Conway, Airbnb and Square.
David Campos, a city supervisor who voted against the tax breaks for Twitter, said he was reserving judgment about the company's commitment to San Francisco. ''It's important to see what the interaction and engagement they have with the community is,'' he said.
The Mission, a neighborhood he represents, was among the hardest hit during the dot-com era when some start-ups set up shop in the city and then folded, though not before raising rents and dislocating longtime residents. Back then, antigentrification posters appeared in the Mission urging people to vandalize luxury cars parked in the area.
It is perhaps a measure of how neighborhoods have been gentrified in the intervening years that few marks of protests have appeared this time. In recent years, areas south of downtown have become increasingly popular among tech workers who live here but work south of here in Silicon Valley. Companies like Google, Apple, Yahoo and Microsoft run private buses that facilitate the reverse commute for their employees.
''A combination of being a bedroom for Silicon Valley and companies like Twitter establishing headquarters in the city has driven up rents extremely in the past year or so,'' said Ted Gullicksen, director of the San Francisco Tenants Union.
RealFacts, a company that compiles rent data in many cities, said the average rent at 50 large apartment buildings it tracks here was now $2,663 -- a record.
Mayor Lee acknowledged that he was worried that some groups were being priced out of the city, mentioning black residents, whose population has declined along with those of families. Mr. Lee recently proposed creating a housing trust to finance affordable housing for the next thee decades.
It is not clear whether the trust -- which must be approved by the Board of Supervisors and voters in a vote in November -- will become reality, much less what effect it will have over decades.
''If you have a city that is wall to wall with tech workers, that might be really cool from a tech worker's standpoint,'' said Peter Cohen, director of the San Francisco Council of Community Housing Organizations, a private group representing nonprofit housing developers. ''But that is not the kind of rich diversity of population that makes San Francisco the place that it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The growing number of tech industry workers in San Francisco has driven up rents. Above, two tech start-up employees and a college student visit a Mission District apartment listed at $3,900. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RETAILERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%)

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



150 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: April Factory Orders Fall 0.6% in 2nd Consecutive Decline

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Companies placed fewer orders to American factories for the second straight month, and an important measure that tracks business investment plans fell, adding to evidence that the economy is weakening. 
The Commerce Department said on Monday that orders for factory goods fell 0.6 percent in April from March levels.
Demand for core capital goods, like heavy machinery and computers, dropped 2.1 percent in April, after a 2.3 percent decline in March.
Core capital goods are a good proxy for business investment plans. The declines suggest companies are worried about a weaker job market, which could crimp consumer spending. Businesses may also fear the worsening European debt crisis and slower growth in China will slow demand for American exports.
Even with the declines, factory orders are well above their recession lows. Orders in April totaled $465.98 billion, up 38.7 percent from the recession low reached in March 2009. Orders are still 3.1 percent below the peak reached in December 2007, the month the recession began.
Economists said they expected the recent decline in factory orders to be reversed in the coming months. They predicted manufacturing would remain a source of strength for the economy this year.
John Ryding and Conrad DeQuardros of RDQ Economics noted that the Institute for Supply Management's survey of manufacturing activity showed new orders rose to a 13-month high in May.
''We think U.S. manufacturing remains in good shape and that it will continue to expand at a solid rate in the coming months,'' they wrote in a note to clients.
Still, the April report on factory orders was discouraging.
Demand for durable goods, items like autos and aircraft that are expected to last at least three years, were flat in April. That was down from a preliminary estimate that durable goods orders for the month had risen a slight 0.2 percent.
Orders for nondurable goods, which include processed food, chemicals, gasoline and paper, fell 1.1 percent in April. Part of that drop probably reflected lower gas prices, which have tumbled since peaking in early April. The figures are not adjusted for inflation.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EURO CRISIS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); EXPORT TRADE (54%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



151 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Group Gave $2 Million To A Cuomo Ally

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, DANNY HAKIM and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A group closely allied with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo received $2 million from gambling interests last December as he developed a proposal to expand casino gambling in New York.
Mr. Cuomo's support for expanded gambling, which he made a centerpiece of his State of the State address in January, had a profound impact. Within weeks, the Legislature endorsed a constitutional amendment that, if approved once more by lawmakers and then by voters, would allow for seven full-scale, privately owned casinos, potentially worth billions of dollars.
Genting, a subsidiary of Southeast Asia's largest gambling company, made an additional contribution of approximately $400,000 to the group allied with Mr. Cuomo during 2011. The New York Gaming Association, a trade group founded by Genting and other companies that operate racetracks and electronic slot machines, chipped in the $2 million.
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, strongly disputed any suggestion that he was influenced by money from the gambling industry. He noted that he had expressed support for an expansion of casino gambling months before the contributions were made, and that he had diverged from the gaming association on several key issues. 
''To try to suggest an improper relationship between the governor and gaming interests is to distort the facts in a malicious or reckless manner,'' Richard Bamberger, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said in an e-mail.
The contributions went to the Committee to Save New York, a business and labor coalition that raised $17 million and spent nearly $12 million in 2011, much of it on campaign-style television and radio advertisements praising Mr. Cuomo and supporting his proposals to cap property taxes and slash state spending.
Founded by real estate developers and business executives at Mr. Cuomo's urging shortly after he was elected governor, the committee has rapidly become the biggest spender on lobbying in Albany, providing not only critical backing for Mr. Cuomo but also a counterweight to the labor unions whose money and political muscle have traditionally dominated the Capitol.
The Committee to Save New York defended its fast-growing role in Albany.
''From the inception of C.S.N.Y., we have focused on a reform agenda designed to help create jobs, improve the economy of our state and get state government working for the people again,'' said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the committee. ''We are proud of our track record, and if there are people who felt they were getting something more for contributing to C.S.N.Y., then they are simply wrong.''
Because it is organized as a nonprofit social advocacy group, called a 501(c)4, the Committee to Save New York is not required to disclose the sources of its money publicly. But The New York Times learned some details of the group's financing through a review of public records and interviews with more than two dozen individuals familiar with the group's activities.
The $2 million from the gaming association appears to have made it the committee's second largest contributor in 2011, according to a tax return released by the committee last month, which included information on donation amounts but did not identify donors.
The group's single largest donor was another business-oriented organization, the Partnership for New York City, which gave just over $3 million.
Two companies that belong to the Partnership for New York City also contributed to the Committee to Save New York: Citigroup and JPMorganChase, each of which contributed $25,000. Other major donors to the Committee to Save New York, according to people with knowledge of the group's finances, come from New York's real estate industry: Brookfield Properties, the Durst Organization and Newmark Knight Frank.
There are no gambling companies or casino executives among the committee's more than 30 advisory board members and partner organizations. Nor was casino gambling high on Mr. Cuomo's agenda when he ran for governor in 2010.
Mr. Cuomo took some steps toward formulating a position as early as June 2011, when he charged an aide with developing a statewide gambling plan. He suggested in August that he was open to legalization of full-scale, private casinos.
There are already five Indian-run casinos in New York, all of them upstate. There is also limited electronic gambling, but no table games with dealers, at so-called racinos located at nine racetracks, represented by the New York Gaming Association.
An official with the association said that it had contributed $1.5 million to the Committee to Save New York on Dec. 1 and $500,000 on Dec. 6. Around the same time, Mr. Cuomo unambiguously took the gambling industry's side, writing a newspaper op-ed article on Dec. 4 saying that he favored expanded casino gambling in New York. Within days, the Committee to Save New York also adopted the issue, adding legalized gambling to its list of priorities for the 2011 legislative session.
In his State of the State speech in January, Mr. Cuomo raised the stakes further, calling for the constitutional amendment to legalize casino gambling and proposing to transform Genting's planned resort near Aqueduct into a destination casino resort that would include the nation's largest convention center.
''This is not about chips and cards,'' he said in the speech. ''This is about the jobs that the casino industry generates.''
Mr. Cuomo and his aides defended the Genting project for months, publicly dismissing worries that the proposed site -- in southwestern Queens, far from the tourist attractions of Midtown Manhattan -- was too remote and concerns that the administration had settled on a developer too quickly. But on Friday, Mr. Cuomo said that the deal with Genting had fallen through. And at a news conference at the Capitol on Monday, he distanced himself from the racing association as well, telling reporters he was opposed to giving operators of existing racetracks a preference for future casino licenses.
''The current racinos are going to argue, they currently argue, that the selection should be limited to the current racinos,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''I 100 percent oppose that.''
Political giving by casino interests has exploded in recent years. This year, gambling companies, casinos and Indian tribes with gambling concerns have given close to $20 million to federal candidates, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
Gambling companies have long had their eye on New York, potentially one of the most lucrative markets in the country because of the high population density and relatively high personal income levels. Gambling companies have argued for years that New York loses billions of dollars a year to casinos in Connecticut and New Jersey, costing the state jobs and tax revenue. But the State Constitution prohibits casino gambling, and efforts in the past to legalize it beyond tribal reservations have failed.
Two years ago, Genting won a lucrative concession to build 4,500 video slot machines at Aqueduct, the anchor of what the company hoped would become a full-scale luxury casino. Beginning in 2011, Genting made a full-scale push in Albany to permit private casinos, organizing the New York Gaming Association with other gambling companies and hiring well-connected lobbyists and advocates, including several close to Mr. Cuomo.
Genting and the association considered a major advertising campaign to back their efforts. But, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions, the Cuomo administration encouraged the companies to contribute to the committee instead, effectively putting the gambling industry's cash behind the committee's promotion of Mr. Cuomo's agenda.
''The administration had very clear ideas of how they wanted to see this progress and made it clear to us,'' said Timothy Rooney Jr., the general counsel at Empire City Raceway, a Yonkers casino that is a member of the association, adding: ''I think we agree with a lot of the governor's initiatives. If that's the vehicle for supporting them, it makes sense.''
Some donors to the Committee to Save New York said they had urged Mr. Cuomo to pursue legalized gambling.
Jeffrey R. Gural, the chairman of Newmark Knight Frank and the owner of two upstate racinos that are members of the New York Gaming Association, said he had contributed about $200,000 last year to the committee, chiefly because he supported Mr. Cuomo's agenda and shared the governor's view that public employees unions had grown too powerful in Albany.
But Mr. Gural said he also viewed expanded casino gambling as an important initiative for New York.
''I told him, 'Andrew, it will create a lot of jobs,' '' Mr. Gural said. ''We're surrounded by casinos -- everyone has them, but we have racinos. Upstate needs jobs desperately.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gambling was not high on Andrew M. Cuomo's agenda in his 2010 bid for governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (95%); CASINOS (92%); GOVERNORS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); JOB CREATION (50%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



152 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Fade Becoming a Drag on U.S. Sales

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
As the European crisis intensifies, a growing number of companies in the United States are warning investors that sales in the region are slowing and could get much worse.
In the technology industry, one of the most exposed to Europe and an engine of the American recovery, Cisco, Dell and NetApp have all recently pointed to unexpected weakness in European sales. Other areas with major exposure to the Continent, including automakers and industrial companies, are beginning to voice similar cautions.
Just a few months ago, market watchers were optimistic that the American economy had decoupled from Europe's problems, able to grow even as the Continent faltered.
While most of the focus has been on oppressive debt and debilitated banks in the euro zone, concerns are shifting to the drag that recession in Europe is exerting on the global economy. Over the weekend, President Obama reflected the growing anxiety by saying that Europe's economy is ''starting to cast a shadow on our own as well'' and that it was partly to blame for the recent slowdown in job creation in the United States. 
The economy of the European Union, which holds the 17 nations that use the euro currency and 10 others, is a larger economic unit than the United States or China.
Corporate profits have been one of the brightest spots in the American economy, but the decline in European revenues is part of the reason that analysts have recently ratcheted down their expectations for profit growth in the second quarter. In the case of technology companies, analysts say they believe that about a third of all revenue comes from Europe.
Through the first few months of this year, when technology stocks were leading markets up, the networking giant Cisco was sharing in the good times, ready to leave behind recent difficulties tied to bad acquisitions.
Last month, though, Cisco's chief executive acknowledged that the company's economic outlook in Europe had ''gotten worse,'' helping to push the company's shares down 11 percent in one day.
A. M. Sacconaghi, a technology analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said, ''As push has come to shove, we have started to see a real shift in outlook.''
Prospects for the European economy darkened in recent days as surveys showed that manufacturing across the euro zone contracted in May and the unemployment rate climbed to a record 11 percent. On Monday, Portugal's finance minister said that the country's growth rate next year would be lower than expected.
Manufacturing has also slowed in India and China, according to data released last week, threatening two of the most reliable drivers of global growth. In the United States, job creation slowed to the weakest level in a year.
The gloomy news sent financial markets around the world tumbling through last week, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling into the red for the year. Share prices were mixed around the globe on Monday; stocks in the United States were flat and Europe's were up slightly.
A weaker Europe has meant a stronger dollar, making American products more expensive. In Asia, several countries rely heavily on exports to Europe and are consequently slowing down in manufacturing, which in turn lowers Asian demand for imports. Even companies around the world that are not dependent on exports are vulnerable as consumer confidence is eroded.
The biggest fear was that Greece's potential departure from the euro currency would set off a financial crisis like the one in 2008. American banks have tried to reduce their holdings of bonds issued by countries in Europe's troubled southern periphery. But if payments and loans were frozen at European financial institutions, it would quickly spread to American banks and from there to the broader American economy.
''I don't think anyone is fully prepared for a disorderly exit of Greece from the single currency,'' said Edward Marrinan, the head of macro credit strategy at RBS.
Barring such a crash, an extended recession in Europe was still likely to hurt the American companies that rely most heavily on Europe for revenue, though it was not clear how many would suffer.
Almost three years into this European crisis, there is a surprising amount of uncertainty about exactly how much American companies rely on European sales. Only about half of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of major American companies break out the portion of their revenue that comes from Europe.
''We do not have a clear picture at all,'' said Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''There is enormous uncertainty.''
Tobias Levkovich, chief equity strategist at Citigroup, has estimated that around 11 percent of all revenue earned by companies in the S.& P. 500 index officially comes from Europe. But he said that the actual figure was closer to 15 percent because of unclear reporting and products that first go through other regions.
Food and beverage companies, as well as pharmaceutical companies, derive about 22 percent of their revenue from Europe, according to Mr. Levkovich's analysis. These companies are less likely to be hard hit in case of a deepening recession.
''At the end of the day, people in Europe will still buy Pampers even if they cost a drop more,'' said Russ Koesterich, the chief investment strategist for the iShares division of BlackRock.
The same cannot be said for companies that sell big-ticket products. American automakers could be in particular trouble given that they derive about 27 percent of their sales from Europe, according to Mr. Levkovich. Both Ford and General Motors reported declining sales in Europe in the first quarter, and the problems are being exacerbated by unused factories on the Continent, according to Mike Wall, an analyst at IHS.
Industrial companies, which derive 16 percent of sales from Europe, have been slower to report problems, though not in all cases. David Farr, chief executive of the Missouri-based industrial conglomerate Emerson Electric, said in a call with analysts in May that his company's business on the Continent ''has continued to weaken'' and that there was ''very little recovery in sight.''
Technology companies have been among the most outspoken about their vulnerability to Europe.
A few weeks after Cisco's announcement, Dell's chief financial officer said the environment in Europe and parts of Asia was ''tougher than we had planned.'' And a day later, Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, Meg Whitman, said that her company would face ''headwinds'' from Europe at least through the end of the year.
Some companies facing this situation have taken measures to protect themselves, like withdrawing money from European accounts that would be vulnerable.
But, Mr. Sacconaghi said, ''There is not a lot you can do when demand in a whole geography weakens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Apple store in Madrid, above, and a General Motors plant in Eisenach, Germany. American companies had been doing well in Europe, but some are warning investors that business there is slowing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL OCHOA DE OLZA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOCHEN ECKEL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) CHART: Most Reliant on Foreign Sales: Some United States industries that have a large share of their revenue from foreign sales could suffer as the global economy, and Europe's in particular, slows or slips into another recession. (Source: Company reports
 Citigroup Global Markets) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); AUTOMAKERS (56%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (86%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); NETAPP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (86%); NTAP (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (86%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



153 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Dashed Hopes in Queens As Convention Plan Falters

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
Ozone Park, a spare, working-class neighborhood in southwestern Queens, has long had a reputation as a place people pass through to get somewhere else. Most visitors are heading to or coming from Kennedy International Airport. Recently, hopes were raised of continuing to transform this neglected area into a destination in its own right by building a convention center and casino: a $4 billion project that promised the area money, jobs and a more central spot in New York's tourist literature.
But those hopes endured a blow last week when Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, the leading proponent of the project, announced that talks with the Malaysian conglomerate expected to pay for and develop the project had broken down. The news, and the reality that even a resurrected development could end up being located elsewhere, provoked a mix of upset reactions and what-did-you-expect shrugs among local residents, business owners and elected officials. 
''Queens is being shafted all the time,'' said Karen Koslowitz, a City Council member from Queens and the chairwoman of the Council's Economic Development Committee. ''Other boroughs are getting things. They are promised and it happens.''
The area has already seen some benefits from the development of the glittering, year-old Resorts World Casino near the Aqueduct Racetrack. So there was a sense of momentum, now lost, when Mr. Cuomo said in his State of the State address in January that the same developer, the Genting Group, would build an adjacent 3.8-million-square-foot casino, convention center and hotel, creating 10,000 construction jobs and 10,000 permanent jobs.
''Queens needs help,'' said Randy Lacko, 59, a retired concessions worker at the Belmont Park racetrack, as he sipped a cocktail at the casino on Monday.
On Rockaway Boulevard, one of the major streets in the neighborhood, where the number of empty shops seems to equal the number still in business, the news fell with the angry clank of a metal roll-down gate. ''It's been a rough year,'' said Phil Salerno, 43, who owns the pizza shop Phil's Place. ''The casino hasn't done nothing for us. I figure the convention center might have moved business.''
Of the governor's announcement, he said: ''That's politics. What are you going to do?''
In a news conference on Monday, Mr. Cuomo said talks with Genting had broken down in part because of uncertainty about the future of a constitutional amendment to permit casinos in the state. The State Legislature passed an amendment this year that would allow the construction of up to seven new establishments, but before the public can vote on the measure, it must be passed again next year. Gambling is currently allowed at nine ''racinos,'' like the Aqueduct facility, which offer both live horse races and electronic slot machines, and at five Indian-operated casinos in the state.
Genting wanted an assurance, among other demands, that additional casinos would not open in the area, Mr. Cuomo said. Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Genting, declined to comment on the details of the negotiations.
The proposal is not completely dead, Mr. Cuomo said. The state is accepting bids from new companies interested in developing a casino, and Genting remains in the running, though he said he was not wedded to Queens as the site. Many city officials had expressed skepticism about building a convention center so far from Midtown Manhattan.
''I don't want to start talking about discussing making commitments where a casino might be or might not be, or what happens when, because we're not there yet,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
The Queens borough president, Helen M. Marshall, called for efforts to continue. ''The need for a convention center in Queens has not diminished,'' she said in a statement. ''I remain hopeful and optimistic that something will get built. We have the labor force to build it, and we need the thousands of jobs that would be generated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); AIRPORTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



154 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Marion O. Sandler, 81, Banker and Philanthropist, Dies

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Marion O. Sandler, who with her husband transformed a two-office bank into one of the biggest savings and loan firms in the country, Golden West Financial, only to be accused of contributing to the financial crisis when they sold it to Wachovia in 2006, died on Friday at her home in San Francisco. She was 81.
The Sandler Foundation, a charitable organization that she and her husband,Herbert Sandler, had set up, announced her death but did not give a cause. 
Herbert and Marion Sandler started Golden West as a small operation in Oakland, Calif., in 1963. Over the next 43 years it grew to become a giant lender, with $124 billion in assets and 285 savings branches across the country at its peak.
Selling Golden West to Wachovia for more than $25 billion was meant to be the crowning business achievement for the Sandlers, who reaped about $2.4 billion from the transaction. They poured much of their proceeds into the Sandler Foundation, which became one the biggest benefactors to nonprofits in the country. The investigative journalism outfit ProPublica is one of its recipients.
But the acquisition proved disastrous for Wachovia, which began to founder from the enormous burden of home loans it had absorbed. In the depths of the financial crisis, the bank was sold to Wells Fargo in a deal encouraged by the federal government.
Blame for the mess was cast far and wide, but the Sandlers were among the most prominent targets, despite their protests that they had nothing to do with Wachovia's fall. ''Saturday Night Live'' lampooned them in October 2008 as ''people who should be shot.'' (NBC later removed the line from rebroadcasts of the skit and from its Web site, and the show's executive producer,Lorne Michaels, expressed regret, saying he had not realized the characters in the sketch were real people.) And Time magazine ranked the couple in its list of ''25 people to blame for the financial crisis.''
The Sandlers pushed back, pointing to their 43-year track record at Golden West. In a three-page rebuttal to the Time article, they wrote, ''Once the facts are known, it is just plain wrong to pin the blame on us.''
Marion Osher was born on Oct. 17, 1930, and grew up in Biddeford, Me., the youngest of five children born to Samuel and Leah Osher. It was a family heavily involved in both business and philanthropy.
She graduated from Wellesley College in 1952, earning Phi Beta Kappa distinction, and received a master's of business administration degree from New York University in 1958. She became a rarity of the time: a high-ranking woman on Wall Street, working as a banking analyst at Dominick & Dominick and then at Oppenheimer & Company, following savings and loan associations.
She met Herb Sandler, then a Manhattan lawyer, on a beach in the Hamptons in 1960. They married the next year, and moved to California to try running their own lending operation.
Supported by a bank loan, they purchased a savings and loan for $3.8 million and renamed it Golden West, with branches operating under the World Savings Bank name.
Mrs. Sandler, who liked to knit scarves during meetings, was seen as the marketing and consumer brains of the firm. Her husband, who survives her, was the strategist.
Mrs. Sandler was one of the first women to become a chief executive of a Fortune 500 company and one of the longest-serving.
Under the Sandlers, Golden West, showing limited mortgage losses, was praised as one of the best-run lenders in the United States. Unusually, the bank kept its loans on its books, rather than breaking them up and selling them to other investors, a practice known on Wall Street as securitization. To the Sandlers, securitization made for lazy lenders who did not scrutinize the mortgages they sold.
Yet the firm was unafraid of pioneering new forms of lending. Among them was the option-adjustable rate mortgage, or option-ARM. Introduced in the early 1980s, it allowed borrowers, temporarily, to make small monthly loan repayments that did not cover interest. Golden West eventually marketed the product, calling it Pick-a-Pay, to low-income customers who could afford the low initial payments but who risked being sunk when larger installments were demanded.
By the time of the Golden West sale in 2006, the Sandlers had already established themselves as philanthropists, giving to Human Rights Watch, the American Civil Liberties Union and other nonprofit organizations. They helped found the Center for Responsible Lending, which is devoted to protecting homeowners, and the Center for American Progress, a liberal research center.
The Wachovia deal provided the Sandlers with the capital to found ProPublica, whose investigative journalism appears both on its own site and in collaboration with other news organizations, among them The New York Times. All told, the couple donated more than $550 million and publicly committed to donating most of their wealth as part of the Giving Pledge, a philanthropy campaign thatWarren E. Buffett andBill Gates helped organize.
But Wachovia's near demise cast a long shadow on the Sandlers' reputation. Jeered at as an expensive folly, the Golden West acquisition came at the height of the housing boom. But after the financial crisis hit, Wachovia found itself struggling under the weight of mortgages that had quickly soured, including loans picked up from Golden West. Wachovia said in late 2008 that it expected to lose $26.1 billion on a portfolio of Golden West loans worth some $124 billion.
Indeed, Wachovia was sold to Wells Fargo for $15.1 billion, 40 percent less than it had paid for Golden West alone.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Sandler is survived by her brothers, Bernard and Harold Osher; her daughter, Susan; her son, James; and two grandchildren.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marion and Herbert Sandler in 1990. They sold Golden West Financial to to Wachovia in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERRENCE MCCARTHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); JOURNALISM (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (60%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: HERB SANDLER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



155 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Young Thais Flee Their Rice Heartland

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

 BODY:
BAAN KHLONG KHOO, Thailand -- During 18 years living across the road from rice paddies, Malinee Khammon has never planted a single seedling. The daughter of farmers who is in her last year of high school, she has become adept at deflecting increasingly desperate pleas from her parents for help on the farm.
''It's hot and exhausting -- I don't like it,'' Ms. Malinee said recently as she downloaded photos from her camera onto a computer at the local community center. ''I'd rather stay indoors.''
Back-breaking and muddy, rice farming in Thailand has long been the domain of the young and able-bodied who had the strength to stoop for hours in the searing sun, transplanting rows of rice plants, one seedling at a time. 
But in Thailand today, rice farming is suddenly the preserve of the old as young people stay longer in school and as the vast metropolis of Bangkok lures the country's best and brightest to careers in air-conditioned workplaces.
''All they can do with their hands is use a cellphone,'' said Sudarat Khammon, who at 33 is the youngest farmer in Baan Khlong Khoo, a village of stilt houses outside the central Thai city of Phitsanulok.
Only 12 percent of Thai farmers today are younger than 25, down from 35 percent in 1985, according to government statistics, and their average age jumped to 42 in 2010 from 31 in 1985.
The move away from the rice paddies is not altogether surprising: Thailand and other rice-growing countries in Asia are following patterns of industrialization seen elsewhere.
But the transition is particularly charged for Thailand, where the growing of rice -- notably the prized jasmine variety -- is entwined with the country's identity, and its livelihood. The country has been the world's leading rice exporter since 1983, according to the United States Department of Agriculture, and rice exports amounted to more than $6 billion last year.
Rice is highly politicized in Thailand, and this year, partly to appease disgruntled farmers, the government put in place a price guarantee system that has hurt competitiveness, leading to stockpiles of unsold rice.
In the long term, as the older generation of farmers dies off, experts worry that Thailand may have trouble finding people to work its 13 million hectares, or about 32 million acres, of rice paddies.
Beyond the basic question of who will take up the plow, some Thais see a more immediate but less tangible threat to the society as a whole. The fertile soils of central Thailand are the heartland of Thai culture and one of the reasons that Siam, as the country was formerly known, thrived.
As young people flee the farms, the values and knowledge of rice farming and the countryside are fading, including the tradition of long kek, helping neighbors plant, harvest, or build a house, says Iam Thongdee, who grew up in a farming family and became a professor of humanities at Mahidol University in Bangkok.
''This has alarmed me for a long time,'' said Mr. Iam, clutching an ancient manuscript handed down through generations in his family and used to instruct farmers in the rituals of village life. ''We are losing what we call Thai-ness, the values of being kind, helping each other, having mercy and gratefulness.''
In Baan Khlong Khoo, there are two visible signs of the abandonment of rice farming. When farmers meet to discuss prices or other rice-related issues, the room is filled with men and women in their 50s, says Nongnut Apiwatnawa, a 51-year-old farmer. The other visible sign is a gaping hole in the ground near Mr. Nongnut's home. Several of his neighbors decided to sell their topsoil to construction companies, who have hauled off the dirt to build houses.
The precise reasons the young are turning from farming include some universal explanations: the belief that life in cities is easier, or at least more exciting. But some of the reasons are more specific to Thailand.
In some parts of the world, the image of farmers is bound together with thoughts of self-reliance, strength and nostalgia for the countryside, but the Thai farmer is seen as ''poor, stupid and unhealthy,'' said Mr. Iam, who specializes in studying the culture of rice growing. ''Farmers say that if I'm reincarnated 10 times, I don't want another life as a farmer.''
Television shows regularly portray farmers as the embodiment of uncouth. And farmers' skin, darkened by the sun, has become a marker of lower social status in a country so obsessed with light skin that television and women's magazines are packed with advertisements touting skin-whitening creams. But there are also economic drivers.
As a group, farmers are increasingly indebted, last year owing on average 104,000 baht, or $3,350, the equivalent of about five years of their average income. The reasons are rising fertilizer prices and the legacy of crops lost to flooding, drought and other natural disasters.
The debt figures may be inflated, says Robert M. Townsend, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has led a project surveying Thai villagers every month for the past 15 years. The farmers he has studied have debt levels that on average are equivalent to less than one year of their income. But it is also increasingly rare to find families who do nothing but farm, he said. The Thai countryside is filled with small entrepreneurs who open grocery shops, hair salons and other businesses.
The declining number of rice farmers is a ''pretty generalized phenomenon across Asia,'' said Robert Zeigler, director general of the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines.
Binh Nguyen Ngoc, a professor of Asian cultures and linguistics at Hanoi National University, says young people in Vietnam, also a major rice exporter, are fleeing the farms. ''Everyone says the farmer works the hardest but gets the least amount of money,'' he said.
Mr. Zeigler says he expects the declining number of rice farmers to cause ''stresses'' in the short term, but said labor shortages are also usually catalysts for the increased use of efficient machines, like those that transplant rice.
''We're having the beginnings of a pretty significant revolution in mechanization in Asia,'' he said. ''I was stunned late last year to see them being used in India and places where you'd think there's an abundance of labor.''
But for now in Thailand, the problem is acute enough -- and the farmers who make up about a third of the population are still a strong enough political constituency -- that the government is taking measures beyond the price guarantee system.
The Rice Department of the Thai Ministry of Agriculture is devising a farmers' welfare fund that seeks to give farmers pensions, workers' compensation for disabilities, and subsidized equipment. The goal of the law, according to the ministry, is to make rice farming more ''honorable and secure.''
The transition in Thailand from a rural and feudal society to one of the foremost producers of computer hard drives and a hub for Japanese and American car companies has been abrupt.
That is causing a stark generational divide between parents who had no other choice but farming and their children who are exposed to a range of possibilities in high school and at universities.
Boonmee Khammon, 41, the father of Ms. Malinee, speaks bitterly about his two daughters' refusal to help him in the rice fields.
''They live in their own world,'' Mr. Boonmee said. ''They're not interested in working on the farm -- I've tried to force them. It's difficult.''
Ms. Malinee says her dream is to become a teacher. Her friends at school, some of them also the children of farmers, want to be doctors, pharmacists and engineers. She seems slightly embarrassed about her farming roots.''She's afraid of getting dark,'' said Namaoi Taengbang, a friend.
Kwanchai Gomez, the executive director of the Thai Rice Foundation, a research center financed by the Thai royal family, believes the decline of interest in such hard work is inevitable, but a decade ago she set up an annual summer camp to keep at least some young people engaged in the ancient skill of coaxing rice from the ground. They meet with experts and spend time in laboratories experimenting with new rice strains. But the effort has met with limited success.
''Many people who came to the camp,'' Ms. Kwanchai said, ''want to further their studies.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 07, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about young people who are turning away from rice farming in Thailand described incorrectly the source of rivers that irrigate the fertile soil in the country's central region, where rice production is most abundant. Most rivers originate in mountains near Thailand's borders with Myanmar and Laos -- not in the Himalayas (with the exception of the Mekong River, which is only a small contributor to irrigation in Thailand).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Farmers in Baan Khlong Khoo, a Thai village. The youngest farmer in the village is 33. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIULIO DI STURCO FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A4)
 Rice harvesting in Nong Phak Nak. The average age of farmers in Thailand increased to 42 in 2010 from 31 in 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO PIGNATELLI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A6) MAP: Thai rice exports amounted to more than $6 billion last year. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RICE FARMING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); STATISTICS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) THAILAND (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



156 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Questions To Ask Mr. Dimon

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon's trip to Capitol Hill next week to explain his bank's multibillion-dollar trading debacle could quickly devolve into Washington Gotcha Theater.
But it shouldn't. It should be used to draw out some real answers that will help inform the public and lawmakers about the risks of our banking system.
Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, has been pretty blunt about the trading losses, calling them sloppy, stupid and bad judgment. But, so far at least, he has sidestepped explaining in any detail how they happened and what actions the firm has since taken. 
Given Mr. Dimon's voluble views on regulations - he has long suggested the industry is overregulated, criticizing the former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker personally and publicly questioning the current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke - his testimony on June 13 before the Senate Banking Committee is particularly important to the debate over banking reform.
Here are some questions the lawmakers might consider asking Mr. Dimon in an effort to elicit illuminating and thoughtful answers:
On April 13, about a month before you disclosed the $2 billion trading loss, you called speculation about outsize risks in your chief investment office ''a tempest in a teapot.'' What, if any, analysis had you personally conducted before making that statement? Do you believe you had all of the appropriate information at the time? If not, why not? Do you believe that you were provided with misinformation or were otherwise purposely misled?
The firm's chief investment office recently changed the way it calculated how much money the unit could lose in a given day. That appears to be one of the reasons so much could be lost so quickly. What were you told about the rationale for making the change? How involved were you in the decision? And were regulators briefed before the change?
Your chief investment office valued or marked certain securities at higher values than other divisions within the bank valued them, according to people briefed on the group's valuations. Is that true? If so, how is it possible that one division could value the exact same asset differently from a different division? Are there other divisions of the bank that value assets differently? What steps have you taken to synchronize the monitoring and valuing of securities and other assets across the bank's divisions?
In a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission commenting on the Volcker Rule, your firm took great pains to advocate for broad macroeconomic portfolio hedging, the same kind of hedging that took place in your chief investment office. You made the case that your firm successfully put hedges in place ahead of the financial crisis that were instrumental to the firm's success.
However, you now point out that under the Volcker Rule, some of those trades would not have been permitted because ''(1) the actions taken were forward looking and anticipatory; (2) the firm's purchases of the credit derivatives may not have been deemed 'reasonably correlated' with the underlying risk, as different instruments were used to effect the hedging strategy than the assets giving rise to the risk; and (3) the gains realized upon the unwind of the hedges could have been determined to be larger than the countervailing risks.'' While the firm should be commended for its success in navigating the financial crisis, why should the trades referred to in your letter be considered hedges and not speculative bets?
If portfolio hedging were banned by the Volcker Rule or other legislation, what would be the impact on JPMorgan's customers? Would you make fewer loans? Would prices go up?
Your chief investment office has put money in corporate bonds as opposed to less risky Treasury bonds, then used derivatives to bet on directions of the market. That indicates that the purpose of the unit, unlike at some of your competitors, is to generate profit rather than protect the bank from losses. Should the investment office be a profit center? What was your role in the unit taking on more risk?
More than 100 regulators work inside your headquarters to monitor and regulate your firm. Why did they miss this? When did they first raise questions about the London trades? Were they provided with all of the information requested? Were they ever misled? Did anyone at the firm ever push back on concerns that the Fed or regulators from any other agency raised? Most important: Do you believe that the regulators should have been able to spot these trades? And if not, what could, or should, be done to help them identify such a risky trade?
Ina Drew, the chief investment officer in charge of the London group that made the bad trades, retired within days of your disclosure of the losses. Ms. Drew was paid $14.1 million in 2011, one of the highest at your firm and in the industry. You have said you would consider clawbacks for people involved in the losses. Your proxy statement says that an employee's pay will be clawed back if he or she ''engages in conduct that causes material financial or reputational harm.'' Have you clawed back any of her previous income or that of others in the group? If yes, how much? If not, why not? Also, did you strike any financial arrangement with Ms. Drew as part of her agreement to retire? Have you struck financial deals with any of the other executives who are expected to leave the firm by the end of the year? If so, please provide the details and the business decision to do so.
Bruno Iksil, your trader nicknamed the London Whale, had made a $100 billion derivatives bet to create what your chief investment office considered a hedge. However, such a large trade made JPMorgan virtually the entire market for a certain kind of derivative, which makes it particularly difficult to unwind. Given JPMorgan's size, is it too big to hedge?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, will testify before the Senate banking committee next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (93%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



157 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Debt Indulgence

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Every generation has an incentive to borrow money from the future to spend on itself. But, until ours, no generation of Americans has done it to the same extent. Why?
A huge reason is that earlier generations were insecure. They lived without modern medicine, without modern technology and without modern welfare states. They lived one illness, one drought and one recession away from catastrophe. They developed a moral abhorrence about things like excessive debt, which would further magnify their vulnerability.
Recently, life has become better and more secure. But the aversion to debt has diminished amid the progress. Credit card companies seduced people into borrowing more. Politicians found that they could buy votes with borrowed money. People became more comfortable with red ink. 
Today we are living in an era of indebtedness. Over the past several years, society has oscillated ever more wildly though three debt-fueled bubbles. First, there was the dot-com bubble. Then, in 2008, the mortgage-finance bubble. Now, we are living in the fiscal bubble.
In this country, the federal government has borrowed more than $6 trillion in the last four years alone, trying to counteract the effects of the last two bubbles. States struggle with pension promises that should never have been made. Europe is on the verge of collapse because governments there can't figure out how to deal with their debts. Nations around the globe have debt-to-G.D.P. ratios at or approaching 90 percent -- the point at which growth slows and prosperity stalls.
It all goes back to the increase in the tolerance for debt.
Democrats and Republicans argue about how quickly deficits should be brought down. But everybody knows debt has to be restrained at some point. The problem is that nobody has been able to find a political way to do it.
The common view among politicians is that pundits may rail against debt, but voters don't actually care. Voters don't want to face the consequences of their spending demands. They'll throw you out of office if you make the tough decisions required to cut deficits. That's why debt mounts and mounts. Voters want it to.
Until maybe today.
Today voters in Wisconsin go to the polls to decide whether to recall Gov. Scott Walker. I'm not a complete fan of the way Walker went about reducing debt. In an age of tough choices, one bedrock principle should be: We're all in this together. If you are going to cut from the opposing party's interest groups, you should also cut from some of your own. That's how you build trust and sustain progress, one administration to the next.
Walker didn't do that. He just sliced Democrats. But, in the real world, we don't get to choose perfect test cases. And Walker did at least take on entrenched interest groups. He did turn a $3.6 billion deficit into a $150 million surplus, albeit with the help of a tax collection surge. He did make it possible for willing school districts to save money on health insurance so they could spend it on students.
Walker's method was obnoxious, but if he is recalled that will send a broader message, with effects far beyond Wisconsin. It will be a signal that voters are, indeed, unwilling to tolerate tough decisions to reduce debt. In Washington and in state capitals, it will confirm the view that voters don't really care about red ink. It will remove any hope this country might have of avoiding a fiscal catastrophe.
On the other hand, if Walker wins today, it will be a sign, as the pollster Scott Rasmussen has been arguing, that the voters are ahead of the politicians. It will be a sign that voters do value deficit reduction and will vote for people who accomplish it, even in a state that has voted Democratic in every presidential election since 1984.
A vote to keep Walker won't be an antiunion vote. It will be a vote against any special interest that seeks to preserve exorbitant middle-class benefits at the expense of the public good. It will tell the presidential candidates that it is safe to get specific about what they will do this December, when hard deficit choices will have to be made.
President Obama has hung back from the Wisconsin race. I'm hoping that's not crass political opportunism but an acknowledgment that governments do have to confront their unaffordable commitments. Mitt Romney has been more straightforward, but even he hasn't campaigned on the choices he would make. If Walker wins, the presidential candidates would have to be as clear before their election as Walker has been after his.
The era of indebtedness began with a cultural shift. It will require a gradual popular shift to reverse. Today's Wisconsin vote might mark the moment when the nation's long debt indulgence finally began to turn around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



158 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Focus on State's Jobs in Romney Era

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
President Obama's campaign ratcheted up its assault on Mitt Romney's record as governor of Massachusetts on Monday, putting $10 million behind a tough new commercial that claims Mr. Romney had ''one of the worst economic records in the country.'' The advertisement will be broadcast in nine battleground states. 
THE SCRIPT The ad opens with the words ''September 2002'' and an announcer's voice: ''It started like this.'' Mr. Romney is shown at a debate where he says: ''I speak the language of business. I know how jobs are created.''
The announcer narrates over images that suggest economic ruin: a vacant, dust-covered factory floor, an empty office, a pair of discarded work gloves. ''But it ended like this: One of the worst economic records in the country. When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs -- a rate twice the national average -- and fell to 47th in job creation, fourth from the bottom. Instead of hiring workers from his own state, Romney outsourced call-center jobs to India.''
The next image on screen: a photo of Mr. Romney boarding a jet. ''He cut taxes for millionaires like himself while raising them on the middle class and left the state $2.6 billion deeper in debt. So now, when Mitt Romney talks about what he'd do as president, remember, we've heard it all before.''
The clip of Mr. Romney at the debate is shown again. ''I know how jobs are created.''
The announcer concludes: ''Romney economics. It didn't work then, and it won't work now.''
ACCURACY The Romney campaign has not challenged some of the ad's key facts, including Massachusetts's standing as 47th in the nation in job creation, its loss of 40,000 manufacturing jobs and the outsourcing of some jobs to India. Mr. Romney's record on jobs, like Mr. Obama's, is mixed. When Mr. Romney took office, the state's unemployment rate was 5.6 percent. When he left, it was 4.7 percent.
The state's debt rose under his leadership as it borrowed to meet short-term cash-flow needs, among other things. But he left Massachusetts with a rainy day fund of $2 billion. Mr. Romney did not, as the ad suggests, raise taxes broadly on the middle class and cut them for the wealthy. He did support fee increases -- on everything from playing golf on state courses to filing a discrimination complaint. While he pushed for a capital gains tax refund that benefited the wealthy, people of more modest means benefited, too.
THE BOTTOM LINE The ad represents a shift in the president's efforts to assail his rival's strongest credential: his economic expertise. Notably, the ad makes no mention of Mr. Romney's career as a businessman, a line of attack that drew considerable backlash among some high-profile Obama supporters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); OFFSHORING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); TAX LAW (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); CALL CENTERS (66%); GOLF (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



159 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Supports Obama at New York Fund-Raisers

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
Days after lauding Mitt Romney for a ''sterling business career'' as a private investor, former President Bill Clinton said on Monday that as president, Mr. Romney ''would be in my opinion calamitous for our country and the world.''
And with that blunt denunciation, delivered at President Obama's side during a fund-raiser in Manhattan at the home of a billionaire hedge-fund executive, Mr. Clinton sought to quash the chatter in the news media and from the Romney campaign that his earlier remarks amounted to an off-message endorsement of Mr. Romney's qualifications to take Mr. Obama's job. 
For Mr. Clinton, it was a minor cleanup operation compared with past episodes in his up-and-down relationship with Mr. Obama since 2008, when Mr. Obama defeated Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination.
Their joint appearance at three fund-raisers in New York City on Monday night was the second of three such get-togethers they plan. Separately, Mr. Clinton will in coming months be what one campaign official called ''an active surrogate'' in Mr. Obama's fight for re-election.
About 50 people paid $40,000 each to crowd into an art-filled room to hear the two presidents in the Upper East Side residence of Marc Lasry, a founder of the hedge fund Avenue Capital Group. Mr. Clinton criticized Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, and said that the Republicans' politics demands ''constant conflict'' and as for their policies, ''the economics are crazy.''
''The Republican Congress and their nominee for president, Governor Romney, have adopted Europe's economic policies,'' Mr. Clinton said, adding: ''Their economic policy is austerity and unemployment now, and then a long-term budget that will explode the debt when the economy recovers so the interest rates would be so high, nobody would be able to do anything.''
In contrast, Mr. Clinton said, Mr. Obama's economic agenda is ''job growth now, and long-term budget restraint.''
''He's got good policies. He's got a good record. He's made the best of a very challenging situation. He deserves to be re-elected,'' Mr. Clinton said.
And he has ''a pretty good secretary of state, too,'' he added, to laughter and applause.
Mr. Obama in his turn recalled the prosperity during Mr. Clinton's tenure, adding, ''Nobody has a better grasp and understanding of the issues than this man.''
He took his own shots at Republicans. He said their shift toward conservative ''absolutism'' -- believing that ''all regulations are bad'' and ''government has no role'' -- had broken a bipartisan consensus dating to World War II that while ''the market is the best generator of wealth and opportunity that we'd ever seen,'' the government has a role to invest in public works and infrastructure, education and environmental protections.
''And we understood that we had to pay for it,'' Mr. Obama said, taking aim at Republicans' antitax stand.
Hours earlier, the Romney campaign sent e-mails to reporters recalling not only Mr. Clinton's recent praise for Mr. Romney's business career in a television interview -- at a time when the Obama campaign is accusing Mr. Romney of having put investors' profits ahead of workers' jobs -- but also some derogatory comments that Mr. Clinton made about Mr. Obama during the Democratic nomination fight.
''Four years ago, President Clinton compared voting for Barack Obama to a roll of the dice,'' said a Romney campaign spokeswoman, Amanda Henneberg. ''After three and a half years of mounting debt, fewer jobs and policies that are hostile to jobs creators, it's clear that the gamble didn't pay off.''
Mr. Clinton noted that 4.3 million private-sector jobs have been added since the government's monthly jobs reports started turning positive 27 months ago. That has not been enough, however, to replace the 8 million jobs lost after the recession took hold in December 2007, nor to significantly reduce a monthly unemployment rate exceeding 8 percent.
The host of the first reception, Mr. Lasry, was asked last week on CNBC about Mr. Obama's criticisms of Mr. Romney's record at the private equity firm Bain Capital. ''I don't really pay a lot of attention to it,'' Mr. Lasry said, adding, ''I think it's just politics.''
Mr. Lasry, a major Democratic Party donor, acknowledged that he is challenged ''more than one or two'' times a day to explain why he supports Mr. Obama. Mr. Lasry said that he replies: ''It is what it is. You need to focus on what you think is the best, and I'm going to focus on what I think is the best.''
After the reception at the Lasry home, Mr. Obama and Mr. Clinton went to the Waldorf-Astoria for a gala with about 500 supporters who paid at least $2,500 each. They were entertained by the singer Jon Bon Jovi, who flew to New York with Mr. Obama aboard Air Force One.
For the final event, ''Broadway for Barack,'' at the New Amsterdam Theater, 1,700 people bought tickets starting at $250 to hear performances by a cast of stars including Stockard Channing, Neil Patrick Harris, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury and Patti LuPone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and former President Bill Clinton at a fund-raiser at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in New York City on Monday.
 Earlier, 50 donors paid $40,000 each to meet the presidents at the home of a hedge fund manager on the Upper East Side. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



160 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: The Young Dreamer, With Eyes Wide Open

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA
The Story
By David Maraniss
Illustrated. 641 pages. Simon & Schuster. $32.50.
Barack Obama's life, says his latest biographer, David Maraniss, was to an astonishing extent ''the product of randomness.'' His mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, the only child of a couple from Kansas, met his father, Barack Hussein Obama, a student from Kenya, in an elementary Russian language class at the University of Hawaii, and the young Barry Obama would grow up in Hawaii and Indonesia, taking an odd, zigzagging and totally improbable road to the White House. And yet, Mr. Maraniss makes clear, despite the bewildering role that chance played in Mr. Obama's story, he has been very much the author of his own life -- an outsider, who, in the very American tradition of literary heroes like Gatsby, ''raised himself'' and forged an identity through a series of self-conscious and deliberate choices. 
Mr. Maraniss's enterprising new book, ''Barack Obama: The Story'' -- which ends with its hero heading off for Harvard Law School in 1988 -- takes a meandering, ''Tristram Shandy'' approach to its subject's life. The president-to-be does not even make an appearance until Chapter 7, and more than 150 pages are devoted to tracing his parents' peregrinations and family roots. Though readers who care only whether Mr. Obama can fix the economy or win re-election may find the amount of detail lavished on his back story overwhelming, at times even tedious, those who persevere will find that the book has the cumulative impact of one of those coming-of-age novels that traces the remarkable ascent of a young man of humble origins to the uppermost reaches of power, complete with all the accidents of circumstance and the willed transcendence of those conditions.
Much of the material in this volume will be familiar to readers of earlier Obama biographies like ''The Bridge: The Life and Rise of Barack Obama,'' by David Remnick, and David Mendell's ''Obama: From Promise to Power.'' The sections about Mr. Obama's mother retrace a lot of ground covered in Janny Scott's 2011 book, ''A Singular Woman,'' just as those about his father reverberate with echoes of Sally H. Jacobs's 2011 book, ''The Other Barack.''
Mr. Maraniss's efforts to articulate an original, overarching thesis can feel forced. He argues that Mr. Obama was determined ''to avoid life's traps,'' including ''the trap of his unusual family biography'' and the ''trap of race in America, with its likelihood of rejection and cynicism.'' As a result this book tends to be at its strongest when Mr. Maraniss uses his chops as a reporter to amplify what we already know from the president's best-selling memoir (''Dreams From My Father'') and a host of earlier biographies and journalistic accounts. Once again we see a cool, calm, collected young man, his adaptability a product of growing up half-black, half-white in Hawaii and Indonesia. His detachment is at once a means of navigating those disparate worlds, ''protective armor covering his determination to make a mark in the world,'' and an emotional defense against growing up without a father and with a mother who parked him for years with her parents in Hawaii while she pursued a career as an anthropologist.
The young Obama is a methodical decision maker, deliberate when it comes to career or relationship issues. (One girlfriend wondered if ''somehow splitting himself off from people is necessary to his feeling of following some chosen route.'') He's also a self-conscious seeker with a penchant for quoting Nietzsche and T. S. Eliot in his love letters and, perhaps most of all, an observer and instinctive writer, given to standing apart from his surroundings, whether working in the corporate world, which he did briefly after graduating from Columbia University (and felt like ''a spy behind enemy lines'') or community organizing in Chicago, where a mentor told him, ''You can either change stuff or you can write about it.''
Through illuminating interviews with Mr. Obama's former high school and college classmates, two girlfriends from his time in New York City in the early 1980s, and colleagues from his days as a community organizer in Chicago, Mr. Maraniss -- an associate editor at The Washington Post -- does an energetic job of filling in the outlines of the president's formative years. But what is new is largely a matter of emphasis and detail. For instance, while Mr. Obama candidly acknowledged indulging in pot and booze and ''maybe a little blow'' in his memoir, this biography underscores just what an enthusiastic marijuana smoker he was as a teenager. According to Mr. Maraniss he belonged to a group of boys at the elite Punahou School in Honolulu who called themselves the Choom Gang (''Choom is a verb,'' the author writes, ''meaning 'to smoke marijuana' '') and thanked his pot dealer in his high school yearbook.
The most revealing chapter (excerpted in Vanity Fair magazine) draws upon the insightful journals of a former girlfriend named Genevieve Cook, daughter of a prominent Australian diplomat, who was teaching at a New York private school in the early 1980s. Ms. Cook was a kind of kindred spirit who shared Mr. Obama's sense of dislocation and passion for intellectual inquiry, but she wrote frequently in her journals about ''the veil'' hanging between Mr. Obama and the outside world. There was something guarded and filtered about him, she observed, and their relationship had ''calculated boundaries'' she was unable to breach. After their romance ended and he had moved to Chicago, she called him and, she said he did ''this cutting off thing he does,'' making it clear, as Mr. Maraniss puts it, ''in his own gentle but cool way that he was not so eager to hear her voice.''
In ''Dreams From My Father'' the future president wrote about ''a woman in New York that I loved.'' But while the physical description of this character closely resembles Ms. Cook, Mr. Maraniss writes, Mr. Obama ''distorted her attitudes and some of their experiences, emphasizing his sense that they came from different worlds.'' Mr. Maraniss says the president told him in a recent interview that that the description of his New York girlfriend was actually a ''compression'' of several women.
In such respects Mr. Maraniss's book serves as a forensic deconstruction -- and explication -- of Mr. Obama's memoir, a work that its author noted in an introduction took a fair amount of poetic license, featuring characters that were ''composites of people I've known'' and events that appeared out of chronological order. Back in 2004, the Chicago Sun-Times columnist Lynn Sweet wrote about the difficulty of sorting out ''who is real and who is not'' in the book. And, in these pages, Mr. Maraniss performs a vigorous autopsy, using some 350 interviews to dissect the identity of various characters and situate Mr. Obama's self-portrait in context with the kaleidoscopic memories of friends, relatives and colleagues.
In one chapter, for instance, Mr. Maraniss says that Mr. Obama's account of being separated from his father when he was 2 was actually ''received myth, not the truth'': Ann and baby Barack had left Hawaii and returned to the Seattle region, he writes, where she had gone to high school, within a month of his birth. Mr. Maraniss puts forth two hypotheses as to why: that Ann's realization that her husband was a bigamist (with another wife back home in Kenya) ''burdened the relationship so much that she had to flee from under its weight''; or that Barack Sr. physically abused Ann (though there is no evidence that he did), the way he would abuse his next wife, an American woman named Ruth Baker.
As for the self-dramatization in ''Dreams,'' Mr. Maraniss writes that because the memoir filtered things through a ''racial lens,'' Mr. Obama presented ''himself as blacker and more disaffected than he was, if only slightly so,'' unwittingly making ''it easier for political critics decades later to portray him'' as ''a stranger in their midst, whose life was outside the American mainstream.'' Ms. Cook said Mr. Obama once told her that he felt ''like an impostor'' because ''he was so white.'' She became convinced that ''in his own quest to resolve his ambivalence about black and white,'' his future ''lay down the road with a black woman,'' predicting that he would eventually end up with someone very much like Michelle Robinson, whom he would meet several years later.
Also interesting in this volume are Mr. Maraniss's insights into temperamental proclivities that would affect Mr. Obama's political career. He gained national prominence with his 2004 Democratic convention speech calling for a unified America (transcending red states and blue states, conservative and liberal thinking), and as president he has been criticized by some supporters for not being tough enough in dealing with obstructionist Republicans in Congress. This book contends that his multicultural upbringing left him with an urge ''to rise above the divisions of culture and society, politics and economics,'' and that he had trouble with confrontation because ''to confront was to acknowledge division, rupturing, imperfection, the traps of life he so wanted to transcend.''
Mr. Obama's mentor in community organizing in Chicago in the mid-1980s, Jerry Kellman, recalls that he ''was one of the most cautious people I've ever met in my life,'' reluctant to burn bridges or employ the sort of aggressive actions (like storming City Hall) that Mr. Kellman favored.''He was not unwilling to take risks,'' Mr. Kellman said, ''but was just this strange combination of someone who would have to weigh everything to death, and then take a dramatic risk at the end. He was reluctant to do confrontation, to push the other side because it might blow up -- and it might.''
One reason Mr. Obama decided to get into community organizing, Mr. Maraniss suggests, had to do with a search for ''moral purpose.'' Though he regarded his mother as something of a naive romantic, and often evinced a ''low-level anger about her frequent absences,'' she always remained, in Mr. Maraniss's view, ''the conscience of his inner life'': he would never shed the conviction, nourished by her, that he couldn't ''sit around like some good-time Charlie,'' that he was expected to do good.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
Above, Barack Obama with his grandparents Stanley Armour Dunham and Madelyn Dunham in New York in the 1980s. Far left, Mr. Obama as a child in Hawaii. Left, shooting a hoop as a high school basketball player. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA
 THE OAHUAN)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERATURE (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (90%); INDONESIA (79%)

TITLE: Barack Obama: The Story (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



161 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: House Member's Aide Who Wrote About Tossing Acid at Women Quits

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A top campaign adviser to Representative Nan Hayworth, a New York Republican facing a potentially tough bid for a second term, resigned on Monday because of a comment he made urging people to ''hurl some acid'' at Democratic female lawmakers with whom he differed. 
The resignation of the adviser, Jay Townsend, who was Ms. Hayworth's campaign spokesman, came after her campaign initially came to his defense despite calls for his firing or resignation.
In a statement issued on Monday, Ms. Hayworth said she wanted to put the matter behind her. ''Jay Townsend has offered, and I have accepted, his resignation from his position with my campaign,'' she said. ''Now, let's return to talking about issues that really matter to families: job creation, spending restraint and economic development.''
Ms. Hayworth, who represents a district in New York City's northern suburbs, is a top target of national Democrats this year as both major parties are locked in a battle for control of the House.
Mr. Townsend ignited the controversy with a comment that he posted on Facebook on May 26 in which he railed against ''all the Lilly Ledbetter hypocrites who claim to be fighting the War on Women.'' He appeared to be making a reference to lawmakers who promoted the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay bill. The legislation, signed by President Obama, makes it easier for women to sue in cases involving equal pay.
''Let's hurl some acid at those female Democratic senators who won't abide the mandates they want to impose on the private sector,'' Mr. Townsend said.
Initially, the Hayworth campaign sought to play down the comments. Ms. Hayworth's campaign manager, Bruce Harvie, called it ''a manufactured controversy,'' according to The Journal News in Westchester County. ''The comment receiving the attention was not made on behalf of the congresswoman or her campaign and was clearly not meant to be taken literally,'' he wrote in an e-mail, the newspaper reported.
But the controversy continued to rage, eventually prompting Mr. Townsend to apologize in a Facebook post on Sunday.
''I posted a stupid, thoughtless, and insensitive comment on a Facebook page,'' he wrote, adding that ''the mistake was mine and mine only, and the post in no way was intended to represent the views of anyone for whom I have worked or represented.''
Ms. Hayworth's allies expressed concern over the seemingly clumsy way her campaign initially responded.
After Ms. Hayworth scored an upset in 2010 by channeling strong Tea Party support, analysts for both parties agree that she is vulnerable. Four Democrats have lined up to run against her: Sean Patrick Maloney, an aide to former Gov. Eliot Spitzer; Mayor Tom Wilson of Tuxedo Park; Rich Becker, a councilman in Cortlandt; and Mayor Matt Alexander of Wappingers Falls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Nan Hayworth, Republican of New York, is seeking a second term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (77%); EQUAL PAY (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: NAN HAYWORTH (91%); SEAN P MALONEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); THOMAS J WILSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



162 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Grab a Chance To Speak With One Voice

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If there was any doubt that the White House strongly supports legislation to make it easier for women to sue over unequal pay, clarity was provided on Monday by President Obama himself. He jumped on a routine conference call with reporters to push the measure, known as the Paycheck Fairness Act, saying, ''I don't have to tell you how much this matters to families across the country.''
One of his key deputies, Valerie Jarrett, also made the conference call rounds and appeared to open a Twitter account Monday for the purpose of promoting the bill. 
It was an unusual example of all-hands-on-deck coordination between the White House and Congressional Democrats in advance of a key procedural vote on the paycheck legislation set for Tuesday. It also represented a serious effort to develop a consistent message at a time of increasing economic turmoil and mounting political anxiety.
By contrast, Congressional Republicans -- even those who are something short of elated about Mitt Romney's presidential candidacy -- have managed to coordinate with his campaign on the major issues of the day, centered on Speaker John A. Boehner's catchphrase, ''Where are the jobs?''
For instance, while Republicans in Congress virtually unanimously support a vote to continue the Bush-era tax cuts for all earners, the White House has called for higher taxes on households with more than $250,000 in income.
But Congressional Democrats cannot seem to decide whether they favor Mr. Obama's threshold or a $1 million cap first proposed by Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York in 2010.
Republicans are almost wholly unified on the push for an extension of the Keystone XL pipeline -- something Mr. Romney has also supported -- but Democrats are divided over the issue.
While Republicans are gaining unity in their fight against looming cuts to the Pentagon, it is not clear that Democrats are working together to maintain the cuts, which Mr. Obama has said must stay in place in the absence of an acceptable compromise on taxes and spending.
A bill to ease regulations on start-up companies, one strongly supported by Mr. Obama, divided Democrats.
Further, while Congressional Democrats have created a legislative agenda that revolves around women -- taking on domestic violence, contraception issues and paycheck fairness -- they have also begun to complain about Mr. Obama's focus on that very agenda, saying it should be more concentrated on jobs and the economy.
''Obviously there are choices to make,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, when asked about the paycheck fairness bill, which he supports. ''I don't feel that you pursue this setting aside other concerns. I continue to make the case to the administration that they ought to be pulling out all the stops for tax reform,'' adding that it appeals to both parties.
The White House is clearly aware of the problem. Mr. Obama tried on Monday to frame the issue of paycheck inequity between men and women as one that has direct impact on the economy. ''This is a make-or-break moment for the middle class,'' he said. ''Congress has to stand up and do its job.''
Republican unity of course has not been a theme of the 112th Congress. The party continues to fight over its support for things like the continuation of payroll tax breaks and student loan bill rate extensions and transportation financing. But when it comes to pushing an overarching message with their presidential candidate, they may be ahead for now.
Sometimes, this is accomplished with this Congress as much as by what members do not say as by what they do.
For instance, Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, who has led the charge to build a more conservative Republican Senate presence, opposes an extension of a lower student loan rate. But Mr. DeMint recently praised Mr. Romney for remaining supportive of the loan-rate extension, arguing that it kept him from getting mouse trapped by Democrats.
Democrats have been relying on legislation concerning women's issues as an anchor all spring, jamming Republicans on votes concerning domestic violence, contraception and other matters. Republicans have scrambled to respond, forming a Republican women's policy caucus or trying to cobble together their own counter legislation.
The paycheck legislation seems to have vexed the Romney campaign -- Mr. Romney will not state clearly whether he supports it.
''Of course Governor Romney supports pay equity for women,'' said Amanda Henneberg, a campaign spokeswoman. ''In order to have pay equity, women need to have jobs, and they have been getting crushed in this anemic Obama economy, losing far more jobs than men.''
The idea of paycheck fairness legislation -- which builds on the Equal Pay Act of 1963 -- would bar employers from retaliating against women who seek to learn their co-workers' pay and opens up more pathways for seeking punitive damages against employers found to discriminate, by way of the paycheck, against women.
The bill came up for a procedural vote in the Senate in 2010 and failed, as no Republican supported it.
It heads to the Senate floor again on Tuesday for another procedural vote to begin debate; it is expected to fail once again.
Many Democrats seem ready to move, with the White House on their arms.
''This in an important issue,'' said Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska. ''But I'm anxious to get to the farm bill. I'm anxious to get other legislation and get back into the budget and things like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Valerie Jarrett joined the president on Monday in voicing support for a pay equity bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TAX REFORM (65%); STARTUPS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); RON WYDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



163 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: After a Slip, Markets End Near Where They Started

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks reversed losses and closed nearly unchanged on Monday as analysts saw value in issues in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which on average were at their lowest level relative to their earnings in six months.
The attraction of the S.& P. stocks overshadowed a decline reported by the Commerce Department in United States factory orders for April, the second straight monthly decline. 
Amazon.com and Starbucks advanced more than 3 percent to pace gains in consumer discretionary companies. Chesapeake Energy rallied 6 percent on plans to replace almost half its board under pressure from the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn. Caterpillar and JPMorgan Chase retreated nearly 3 percent. Facebook declined 3 percent to the lowest price since the stock began trading at $38 last month.
The S.& P. 500 rose 0.14 point, or 0.01 percent, to 1,278.18. The Dow Jones industrial average retreated 17.11 points, or 0.14 percent, to 12,101.46. The Nasdaq composite index rose 12.53 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,760.01.
The S.& P. 500 started the session trading at 12.9 times its companies' reported earnings, the lowest valuation since November. It dropped 9.9 percent from a four-year high on April 2 through last week amid concern that Europe's debt crisis was worsening and that global economic growth was slowing.
Stocks were under pressure from the start as government data showed factory orders fell 0.6 percent in April, pointing to a deceleration in manufacturing. China's nonmanufacturing industries expanded at the slowest rate in more than a year.
''It's a function of things having gotten oversold and due for a rally at some point,'' Michael James, a managing director at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles, said.
Seven out of 10 groups in the S.& P. 500 advanced as phone, consumer discretionary and technology shares had the biggest gains. Amazon.com jumped 3.1 percent to $214.57. Starbucks added 3.4 percent to $53.90.
Chesapeake Energy rallied 94 cents to $16.52. Four of the company's eight nonexecutive directors will be replaced with nominees of the largest shareholders, Southeastern Asset Management and Mr. Icahn. He set off the overhaul by acquiring a 7.6 percent stake last month to rein in what he saw as risk-taking and overspending that led to a $22 billion cash crisis and eroded the share price.
An intensifying financial crisis in Spain or elsewhere in Europe could drive United States stocks into a bear market, the Goldman Sachs Group's chief United States equity strategist, David J. Kostin, said. While Mr. Kostin's midyear forecast for the S.& P. 500 calls for a 3.7 percent gain from last week's close to 1,325, the measure may fall should the situation in Europe worsen.
''Financial contagion or crisis in Spain'' could prompt a bear market, according to a Goldman Sachs report on Friday.
Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction and mining equipment, dropped 2.6 percent to $83.26. JPMorgan fell 2.9 percent to $31. Morgan Stanley tumbled 2.9 percent to $12.36, the lowest since 2008.
Facebook slumped 3 percent to $26.90 after tumbling 13 percent last week. The company, the world's biggest social network, declined after the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company initiated coverage with an underperform rating and a $25 share-price estimate.
''It is difficult to argue for owning the stock today,'' said Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Bernstein in New York, in a research report on Monday.
Interest rates were higher for the first time in six trading sessions. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 19/32, to 102 3/32, and the yield rose to 1.52 percent from 1.46 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); EURO CRISIS (70%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ACQUISITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



164 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: City Launching Online Applications for Housing Lotteries

BYLINE: CHRIS PALMER


HIGHLIGHT: New Yorkers who want to rent or buy an affordable housing unit will be able to use their computers to apply. 

 BODY:
The process of applying to live in a city-financed affordable housing development is about to enter the 21st century.
Starting Tuesday morning, applicants seeking to rent or buy an apartment in two new developments - the Westwind Houses in East Harlem and Richmond Place in Richmond Hill, Queens - will be able to create a user profile and submit applications to each development on a new Web site, www.nyc.gov/housingconnect.
In the fall, the site will expand to include all new affordable housing development projects in the city, meaning that applicants will be able to create an online application, then submit that application to any new affordable housing lottery in New York with the click of a button.
The city receives approximately 160,000 applications each fiscal year for about 4,000 affordable apartment units, which usually sell or rent at below-market rates. Applicants, who must meet certain income requirements to qualify for affordable housing, are selected via lottery.
City officials hope that the online process will be a major improvement for applicants, who, until now, have had to use only a paper system.
Under that system, applicants had to contact building managers, community sponsors or real estate professionals to receive an application, then complete and mail a new paper application to the developer of each building they were interested in applying for. The new system will permit a person to save an application online and use it to enter multiple lotteries.
City officials said the Web application process will also offer other improvements over the paper system, including a central location for all affordable housing lotteries, automatic notifications, and the ability to check the status of each lottery. 
Paper applications will still be accepted and included in the regular lottery even when the Web site includes all available housing developments in the fall.
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who proposed an electronic application process in her 2011 State of the City address, said she was excited to see the system launch.
"It will open up a system to more New Yorkers, and create the potential for more New Yorkers to access housing out there in the five boroughs," she said. "They say you have to be in it to win it, and we're trying to create the chance for more New Yorkers to be 'in it'."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); WEB SITES (76%); LOTTERIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (66%) Quinn, Christine C; Affordable Housing; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); New York City; Housing & Economy

PERSON: Quinn, Christine C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012



165 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Matsui Back at Yankee Stadium, This Time as a Ray

BYLINE: ZACH BERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Hideki Matsui, who left the Yankees after a memorable 2009 World Series run, started in right field and batted in the cleanup spot on Tuesday night. 

 BODY:
Hideki Matsui was unemployed on opening day and seemingly undesired throughout baseball, but on Tuesday the former Yankees stalwart started in right field and batted in the cleanup spot when the Tampa Bay Rays opened a three-game series against the Yankees in the Bronx.
 "Because we're in New York and because he has a flair for the dramatic," Rays Manager Joe Maddon said batting Matsui in the No. 4 spot. "Why not bat him fourth and have him hit a home run? I swear to God, that's my logic. Nothing more complicated than that."
Matsui's No. 35 uniform featured a digit unfamiliar to Yankees fans used to seeing Matsui wear No. 55, and he still was getting acclimated to the visiting clubhouse even though he is with his third team since leaving the Yankees after a memorable 2009 World Series in which he was named the most valuable player. 
Matsui, 37, played seven seasons for the Yankees from 2003-9, and has since floated from the Los Angeles Angels to the Oakland A's to the Rays. He admitted that he signed with the Rays because there was little interest elsewhere.
 "I'm not getting any younger and given the circumstances, I'm not surprised," Matsui said through an interpreter. "This is a world where you have to prove yourself and be able to compete. So in that sense, I'm not surprised. I accept the situation."
 Matsui entered Tuesday's game batting .188 with two home runs and four R.B.I. in five games this season.
When the Yankees were in the market for a designated hitter and outfielder before the season, Matsui paid attention to the who they were looking at but did not have any expectations about returning to the Bronx. The Yankees eventually signed Raul Ibanez.
 Matsui said he did not often think about his Yankees tenure, which included two All-Star seasons. But when citing why he wears No. 35, Matsui referenced former Yankees teammate Mike Mussina.
 "Fifty-five wasn't available," Matsui said. "So the other number that was available, which was 35, I was able to keep one of the fives and the three comes from the person I consider my mentor, in my former manager, who wore No. 3. 
"And also, 35, Mussina used to wear that number. Hopefully I can end my career with the kind of numbers, the kind of performance, of Mussina."
 Maddon wanted Matsui to look like his old self on Tuesday in New York, where most of Matsui's American baseball success occurred.
 "We're staying in the theater district while we're in town," Maddon said, "and I thought it might be good theater for tonight."
Robertson Talks Return Dave Robertson has spent more than three weeks on the disabled list, but the Yankees reliever estimated that he is still at least eight or nine days from returning to the Yankees from a strained oblique muscle. Robertson joined the club on Tuesday at Yankee Stadium and threw a 35-pitch bullpen session.
 Robertson was not sure when he will make a rehabilitation appearance or how many games he will need before he joins the active roster. Manager Joe Girardi said that Robertson would pitch in the eighth inning and not immediately close games when he returns. Rafael Soriano has not blown a save in seven opportunities this season, six of which came after Robertson last pitched.
 "Soriano has done a very good job with what we've asked him to do," Girardi said. "Let's just get Robby back and throwing the baseball. But I expect that we'll try to insert him in the eighth inning to start out."
 After Mariano Rivera sustained a season-ending knee injury May 3, Robertson became the Yankees' closer. Robertson supported Soriano and did not bemoan the timing of his injury. He said that as long as the team was winning, he had no qualms about whatever role he fills.
 "I didn't ever think of me being the closer," Robertson said. "I just thought whenever the opportunity arises and I get the chance, to go for it."
Hoping to Be a Yankee The Yankees took Ty Hensley, as 18-year-old right-handed pitcher from Edmond, Okla., with their first-round pick, 30th over all, on Monday in the draft. Hensley, whose father was drafted in the second round by the St. Louis Cardinals in 1988 but never made it to the majors, said during a conference call with reporters on Tuesday that he hoped to be pitching in New York by age 21. He also wants to quickly sign a contract so he can start through the minor leagues.
 "Yesterday, whenever I got the call and found out I was gonna be a Yankee, I was so fired up I got to go to a great organization and have an opportunity to play in pinstripes one day with a team with so much history," Hensley said. "If I could have picked any team to go to, it definitely would have been the Yankees."
Hensley noted that as a child, he modeled himself after the former Yankees pitcher Roger Clemens. In recent years, he emulated the Detroit Tigers' Justin Verlander and the Philadelphia Phillies' Roy Halladay. Hensley attended the same high school as the former Yankees minor leaguer Brandon Weeden, who is now a quarterback with the Cleveland Browns.
 With their two second-round picks on Tuesday, the Yankees selected Austin Aune, a high school outfielder from Texas, and Miami catcher Peter O'Brien. 

        
Yanks' Closer Situation Isn't Open and Shut
        
Yankees Express Confidence in Robertson
        
Robertson Ditches the Boot
        
Soriano Passes First Test in Crucial Situation
        
Nova Makes His Case With Six No-Hit Innings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); THEATER (63%); SPORTS AWARDS (53%) Dave Robertson; Hideki Matsui; Joe Girardi; Joe Maddon; Rafael Soriano; Tampa Bay Rays; Ty Hensley; Yankees; Matsui, Hideki; Baseball; New York Yankees

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (55%) New York Yankees; Tampa Bay Rays

PERSON: Matsui, Hideki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



166 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: A Tech Boom in San Francisco's Urban Core

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In Tuesday's New York Times, Norimitsu Onishi reports on how tech start-ups are moving into San Francisco's downtown, transforming a neighborhood that has defied development for decades. 

 BODY:
In Tuesday's New York Times, Norimitsu Onishi reports on how tech start-ups are moving into San Francisco's urban core, transforming a neighborhood that has defied development for decades. Among those making the move is Twitter, which next month will take over three floors of an 11-story 1937 Art Deco building that has sat shuttered for five years. Zynga, Yelp and other social media start-ups also have offices within the city. Meanwhile, workers at the big Silicon Valley companies, like Google and Apple, are becoming attracted to San Francisco's urban charms, choosing to live in the city while commuting to the valley.
The city's mayor, Edwin M. Lee, who was elected last year with the tech industry's strong backing, has aggressively courted start-ups, particularly by pushing through tax breaks.
But the boom has raised fears about the tech industry's growing political clout and its spillover economic effects. Apartment rents have soared to record highs as affordable housing advocates warn that a new wave of gentrification will price middle-class residents out of the city. At risk, many say, are the very qualities that have drawn generations of outsiders here, like the city's diversity and creativity. Families, black residents, artists and others will increasingly be forced across the bridge to Oakland, they warn.
Jenny Liu, 41, who owns a restaurant near the Twitter offices, told The Times that her landlord was raising her monthly rent to $12,000 from $8,000. "Of course, Twitter is good for the city, but how about me?" she asked.

        
Twitter Says It Will Stick With San Francisco
        
Twitter's Tax Break Clears One Hurdle
        
One on One: Andrew Keen, Author of 'Digital Vertigo'
        
Facebook vs. Twitter
        
Twitter Makes Better Recommendations of Whom to Follow

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (92%); CITIES (92%); STARTUPS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); WRITERS (71%); MAYORS (71%) San Francisco; Twitter; Area Planning and Renewal; Start-ups; San Francisco (Calif); Internet; Policy

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



167 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: New San Francisco Tech Boom Brings Jobs but Also Worries

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The influx of start-ups into blighted areas of San Francisco has raised fears about the tech industry's growing political clout and its spillover economic effects. 

 BODY:
Far from Silicon Valley's self-enclosed campuses, Twitter and other tech start-ups are gravitating to San Francisco's urban core that has defied development for decades. Its soon-to-be neighbors include liquor stores, check-cashing stores and discount hotels, reports Norimitsu Onishi of The New York Times. But this boom has also raised fears about the tech industry's growing political clout and its spillover economic effects.Read more 

        
Daily Report: A Tech Boom in San Francisco's Urban Core
        
Bits Pics: Anonymous Protests in San Francisco
        
Anonymous to BART: We Hack. We Organize, Too
        
Tech and the San Francisco Rental Bubble
        
San Francisco Tech Companies Get a Tax Break

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (70%) San Francisco; Policy; Start-ups

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



168 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Big Government, Small Families

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: An example of why conservatives see the state as a threat to community. 

 BODY:
Last week I had the pleasure of joining the Washington Post's E.J. Dionne on "The Diane Rehm Show" for a discussion of his engaging new book, "Our Divided Political Heart," which is both a meditation on the individualistic and communitarian strands in American political thought and history, and (as you might expect, given the author) a lament that the contemporary Republican Party has tilted the contemporary balance dangerously toward a radical individualism. My main criticism of his thesis (also perhaps predictably) was to question Dionne's tendency to equate "community" with "government," given the way expansions of state power tend to crowd out more personal and/or voluntary forms of common life (civic, religious, familial), replacing human-scale interactions with bureaucratic process and leaving society more atomized than before. To which he responded that while this can happen, it doesn't to happen: Government can strengthen local communities as well as weaken them, partner with private groups as well pre-empt them, and fill in the gaps left by purely voluntary effort as well as take those efforts' place. Conceding that reality, I nonetheless tried to press Dionne a bit more on whether given where we are now, with a large-scale and costly welfare state having become a permanent feature of our national life even as more local and personal forms of community have attenuated, the conservative-communitarian suspicion of state power might not be more relevant than the liberal-communitarian view of the state as an instrument of social solidarity.
Obviously our conversation fell somewhat short of resolving these issues. But the discussion might have profited from an engagement with Ramesh Ponnuru's essay in the latest National Review, which explores one of the present-day welfare state's more straightforwardly anti-communitarian elements: Namely, the way that existing public policy disadvantages parents and discourages childbearing. While acknowledging that "large social trends other than entitlements contribute to the decline in fertility," Ponnuru points to the substantial body of research linking government retirement programs to shrinking family size - both because the programs themselves reduce the economic incentives to have children as a potential prop in your old age, and because the taxes required to pay for them make it harder to raise those children to adulthood in the first place:
A 2005 paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research by economists Michele Boldrin, Mariacristina De Nardi, and Larry E. Jones points out that "the size and timing of the growth in government pension systems" matches up nicely with fertility trends in the U.S. and Europe. They expanded on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, and fertility fell on both sides, after World War II; and they expanded more in Europe, where fertility fell further. In their model, entitlements account for roughly half of the decline in fertility, and 60 percent of the difference between European and American fertility. When a pension system expands by 10 percent of GDP, the average number of children per woman drops by 0.7 to 1.6. "These findings are highly statistically significant and fairly robust to the inclusion of other possible explanatory variables."
A 2007 paper by Isaac Ehrlich and Jinyoung Kim, also for the NBER, reached similar conclusions, finding that pension programs explained a little under half of the decline in fertility rates, and a little more than half of the decline in marriage rates, in developed countries between 1965 and 1989. One implication of this finding is that pension programs have contributed to their own financial woes by suppressing fertility.
Now nobody, right or left, is arguing for doing away with public retirement programs entirely. But the programs and their liabilities do loom rather large in contemporary debates over the size and scope of government, and from a communitarian perspective the second-order consequences that Ponnuru's piece describes would seem to be a telling brief in favor of seeking their reform. There are arguments to be made in defense of a world with smaller families, fewer children, and less intergenerational solidarity. But these arguments generally require portraying the fundamental human community as a locus of oppression (which, to be sure, it sometimes is) and those government programs that discourage family formation and childbearing as vehicles of liberation - from the burdens of childbearing, from the drudgery of parenting, and eventually from the burdens associated with caring for one's aging parents. These are individualistic arguments, in other words, not communitarian ones: They celebrate state power precisely because it us from our unchosen obligations, and from the obligation to form further associations as well. And while this a perspective that one associates with a certain style of liberalism, it makes an uneasy fit with the kind of communitarian spirit that's championed so eloquently by E.J. Dionne.

        
Are Inequality and Immobility Inseparable?
        
Structure, Not Numbers
        
The Ryan Budget 2.0
        
Straussian Social Conservatives?
        
Osawatomie and Opportunity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TRENDS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CHILDREN (86%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (85%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WRITERS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELIGION (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%) communitarianism; conservatism; entitlements; liberalism; Sex and Marriage; the family

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



169 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2289 words

HEADLINE: Kohr Principles

BYLINE: FRANK JACOBS


HIGHLIGHT: Revisiting an Austrian academic's call for smaller borders. 

 BODY:
Unless you're North Korean or Lou Dobbs [1], you probably don't think about your country's borders every day. Yet those borders - or at least their scope - can have a profound effect on how you think about your country and its place in the world. 
If you live in a large country, this may give you a certain perspective on, say, matters of land management ("Drill it, build it - we've got plenty of space!") or even global self-confidence ("Shush, or we'll call in an airstrike"). The same applies, conversely, to living in a small country, which perforce limits the size of your national ambitions (have you ever heard of an Irish space program? [2]) and the weight of your punch on the international stage (hence never any Malawian vetoes on the United Nations Security Council [3]). 
Geographical size not only influences how countries view themselves; it also determines how they interact. The wrong mix of sizes can be disastrous for international equilibrium. One could argue, for example, that this was a factor in both world wars. Or as Henry Kissinger succinctly put it: "Poor old Germany. Too big for Europe, too small for the world." 
It was precisely this problem of geopolitical girth that exercised the mind of Leopold Kohr, a 20th-century Austrian academic whose work inspired both modern political anarchism and the Green movement. 
Kohr was born in Oberndorf bei Salzburg, an Austrian village directly on the border with Germany, in 1909. After brilliant studies in law and political science at universities in Innsbruck, London and Vienna, in 1937 he became a freelance correspondent from the frontlines of the Spanish civil war. There, he befriended George Orwell and shared a writing desk with Ernest Hemingway. He also experienced first-hand the short-lived anarchist experiments in governance, in Catalonia [4] and elsewhere in republican Spain. 
 These brief flickers of an idealism that ran counter to an otherwise totalitarian age - crushed between the rock of Communism and the hard place of fascism - would continue to inspire Kohr's writing and thinking. Barely escaping the Nazi takeover of Austria in 1938, Kohr fled to America. After a brief stint working in a Canadian gold mine, he made his way down to the United States and a resumption of his academic career. 
The guiding principle of Kohr's work was, like that of his friend the economist E.F. Schumacher, "Small is beautiful" [5]. In 1941, while working for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, Kohr wrote, "We have ridiculed the many little states, now we are terrorized by their few successors [6]." 
In 1943 Kohr secured a professorship at Rutgers, where he taught for 12 years, during which time he finished his central work, "The Breakdown of Nations." Published first in Britain, in 1957, the book develops his theory of the optimal size of polities: "There seems to be only one cause behind all forms of social misery: bigness." Size was the root of all evil: "Whenever something is wrong, it is too big." 
Unsurprisingly, Kohr's guiding principle was anarchism, "the noblest of philosophies." But its inherent nobility, he recognized, also made it utopian: a truly anarchist society could do away with governments and states only if all individuals were ethical enough to respect one another's boundaries. Kohr cleverly turned this utopianism upside down, from weakness to strength: any party, any leader, any ideology promising utopia is automatically wrong, or lying [7]. Acceptance of utopia's unattainability, in other words, is the best insurance against totalitarianism. 
But if the ideal state cannot be attained, at least it can be approached, Kohr thought, by reducing the scale of government. Which sounds a lot like the famous quote from Thoreau's "Civil Disobedience": "That government is best which governs least." But in Kohr's vision, smaller government should mean, first and foremost, a smaller to govern. In such smallness, greatness resides. Counterintuitive as that may sound, didn't Greece and Italy have their Golden Ages when they were divided into countless city-states? Not a coincidence, according to Kohr: smaller states produce more culture, wealth and happiness. 
It might be easy to confine Kohr's non-violent anarchism to the salon, where, over a fine glass of sherry, quixotic ideas may be lofted and shot down like intellectual clay pigeons. But he thought his gradualist approach eminently practicable, and tried to put it to good use in the field. 
During his long career, Kohr supported the independence movements of Puerto Rico, Wales and Anguilla [8], and opposed grand unification projects like the European Union. He appealed for the breakup of Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, long before they happened. And he publicized his ideas about how such small states should be formed and governed. He even devised a concrete upper limit for "smallness": "The absolute maximum to which a society can expand without having its basic functions degrade, is about 12 to 15 million people." 
The answer was "not union, but division": in a world where companies merge into megacorporations and countries into unaccountable supra-states, Kohr's vision is both counterintuitive and refreshing. One of his 10 basic laws is the so-called Beanstalk Principle: For every animal, object, institution or system, there is an optimal limit beyond which it ought not to grow. In other words: "too big to fail" is a contradiction in terms. The real solution is to make countries (and companies) too small to fail [9].
But the trick is not just to divide, but to divide wisely. For, as Kohr liked to quote, "The dose makes the poison" [10]. Cut up a continent wrong, and you end up with, well, Europe. To demonstrate, Kohr included a few hypothetical maps in "The Breakdown of Nations." On a map of North America, he superimposed a Euro-style division, skewed toward imbalance. A map of Europe was likewise redivided to convey an American sense of balance on the Old Continent. 
The strength of the American federation, Kohr thought, rested in no small part on the genius of its division: into states of roughly equal size. How different American history could have coursed, if the Union had looked like this: 
* A Coastal State consisting of the three states on the Pacific Coast, plus Nevada: large enough to be self-contained, its orological [11] isolation from the rest of the States underlined by its institutional separation. 
* Montana, consisting of seven Rocky Mountain states, serves as a natural and political barrier between a more populous west and an even more populous east. 
* Isola, the name of which both abbreviates "isolation" and is Italian for "island," comprises 14 states in the Midwest. The implication is that this state, landlocked though it is, can get by on its own. 
* Texas: the only state large enough to be big enough on its own. 
* Louisiana: a smallish state in a strategic location - the Mississippi estuary - no doubt torn apart and fought over by its larger neighbors, notably Isola, looking for access to the sea. 
* Southland, a congregation of nine Southern states - or eight Southern states, plus Kentucky, if you're into the whole historical accuracy thing. 
* Atlanta: eight states, including most of New England, plus New York and Pennsylvania. 
* Smaller states that are either the cockpits or the time-out zones for the bigger players: "Virginia" (i.e. West Virginia), Maryland, Washington, D.C. and Rhode Island. 
War would have ensued, as it did in Europe. So what if Europe could have been sliced up like America had been? It takes a lot more effort to eradicate from your mind's eye the underlying borders on the map of Europe, and believe these straight lines. But the effort to do so is interesting. 
Here, at least, we have a Europe of little states. No Germany, France, Spain - all countries that have at some point tried to dominate the entire continent (Russia is conveniently left out of the scope of this map). 
* Ireland is one, but Britain is divided. 
* The Iberian Peninsula is cut up in five pieces, one of which does resemble Portugal. 
* A single line divides Northern European states from southern ones from just north of Belgium to the north of Ukraine. A bit like the Parallel 36'30" North, which in the United States forms or skirts every state from the Atlantic to the Arizona-Nevada-Utah tripoint. 
* Kohr's lines seem to ignore ethnic divisions, but sometimes cut ghostly reminders of existing countries: a rectangular Netherlands is there, as is a crude Austria and an almost perfectly preserved Denmark. Is the imprint of Europe's old (and, perhaps not coincidentally, smallest) countries so indelible that they are , even for Kohr? 
Kohr's geopolitical musings are unique in that they impose the border patterns of Europe and North America on each other. But they are not alone in hypothesizing what the world would look like if the borders of these two key continents looked different. 
In 1992, Freddy Heineken - yes, he of beer-brewing fame - devised Eurotopia, a Europe divided into 75 regions, based on Kohr's ideas. And much earlier, revolutionary France produced a proposal for geometrically identical dpartements [12] prefiguring Kohr's Europe map. 
But North America has proved a much more versatile canvas for proposals and ideas to reorganize the continent. From C. Etzel Pearcy's proposal for a 37-state union, over Joel Garreau's "discovery" of the Nine Nations of North America, to even the 12 districts of Panem, in the fictional universe of "The Hunger Games": Americans seem keen to explore how different borders might give them a different idea of themselves. As odd as some of Kohr's ideas may seem to modern American readers, perhaps they are more familiar than most people realize. 
 North Korea's draconian border controls are a necessary complement to its spartan ideology; Lou Dobbs helped popularize the idea that the United States border is as leaky as a sieve. 
 Actually, Ireland does have a space program - of sorts. In 1980, it co-founded the European Space Agency, and every rocket launched by Europe's answer to NASA has had an Irish flag painted on its side as well as the flags of the other countries in the organization, by now 18. All ESA members value the multiplier effect of their pooled resources. In 2012, ESA has a budget of $5 billion, of which Ireland contributes 0.4 percent. On its own, Ireland's $20 million would cover just one-sixth of the average cost to launch a single Ariane 5, ESA's workhorse satellite-delivery rocket. 
 The Security Council's five permanent members, who also have veto power, are the United States, Britain, Russia, France and China. The composition of this veto-wielding quintet still echoes who won World War II. Occasionally, there's talk of expanding the Security Council's permanent seats (and veto powers) to better reflect a changed world. The shortlist usually names Germany, India, Japan and Brazil (the so-called G4, who support one another's candidacy), and professes support for an Arab and an African country. Suggestions vary: South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt. But never Malawi. 
Nevertheless, "small" states can have an impact on the world stage, either by engaging in so-called "niche diplomacy" (e.g. Canada's efforts against land mines [the "Ottawa Process"] and Norway's efforts for Middle East peace [the "Oslo Process"]), or by acquiring nuclear weapons (see, again, North Korea). 
 Orwell's "Homage to Catalonia" is an excellent, if passionately partisan, introduction to the Catalonian experiment. 
 Kohr helped popularize that slogan, which Schumacher would use as the title for his 1973 best seller. In fact, much of Schumacher's work was inspired by Kohr's ideas, and he completed the book in Kohr's house in Aberystwyth, Wales. A related principle of Kohr's was "slow is beautiful." 
 Before its abolition in 1806, the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation consisted of more than 300 independent states. This unruly agglomeration would give way to the German Empire, more streamlined with its 27 territories with varying degrees of autonomy (kingdoms, free cities, grand duchies, duchies, an imperial territory). Any semblance of local autonomy was absent from the highly centralized Nazi state that followed it. 
 Sounds like that quote from Andr Gide: "Believe those who seek the truth, doubt those who find it." But if that's true, why would we believe it? 
 Anguilla seceded from the British Caribbean islands of St. Kitts and Nevis in 1967, declaring independence in 1969. Kohr, at that time lecturing in nearby Puerto Rico, actively supported the so-called "Anguilla Project." A British military intervention in 1969 helped turn back the clock on the island, which now remains a British dependency (while St Kitts and Nevis achieved full independence in 1983). 
 Some other Kohr principles: the Law of Peripheral Neglect (governmental concern, like marital fidelity or gravitational pull, diminishes with the square of distance); the Population Principle (as the size of a population doubles, its complexity quadruples); and the Self-Reliance Principle (self-reliant communities are less likely to get involved in war than those who depend on global trade systems).
 , a quote borrowed from Paracelsus, who used it in a medical context. 
 Relating to the study of mountains.
 See Strange Maps No. 159: Squaring the Hexagon: France's Rectangular Dpartements.
This article originally implied that Rhode Island was not a part of New England. It also misidentified a state-border tripoint; it should be Arizona-Nevada-Utah, not Nevada-New Mexico-Utah.

        
Ephemeral Islands
        
Where Is Europe?
        
Transnistrian Time-Slip
        
Enclave-Hunting in Switzerland
        
Put It in Neutral

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); CIVIL WAR (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (63%) borders; Geography; Leopold Kohr; Maps; States; Europe; United States; Borderlines

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (76%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (68%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); GERMANY (87%); SPAIN (79%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



170 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Corcoran Gallery Board Votes to Consider a New Home

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Struggling with continuing deficits and a change in leadership in recent years, the Corcoran Gallery of Art's Board of Trustees voted on Monday to explore leaving its imposing Beaux-Arts building at 17th Street and New York Avenue NW in Washington. 

 BODY:
Struggling with continuing deficits and a change in leadership in recent years, the Corcoran Gallery of Art's Board of Trustees voted on Monday to explore leaving its imposing Beaux-Arts building at 17th Street and New York Avenue NW in Washington.
"Just as the Corcoran moved in 1897 to accommodate its growing collection, one of the clear options now is to consider relocating to a purpose-built, technologically advanced facility that is cost-effect to maintain," read a statement signed by Fred Bollerer, the Corcoran's director and chief executive officer, and Harry Hopper, chairman of the board. 
They added: "Our needs are made especially challenging by the high operating costs of a building that is beautiful but antiquated."
The building requires at least $100 million in renovations, the two men stated, noting that it would be difficult to accomplish their goal of better integrating the gallery and the Corcoran College of Art + Design in the current setting.
Kristin Guiter, vice president of communications and marketing, said in an e-mail that the museum was expecting to have a $7.2 million deficit for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30th.
The gallery, which is privately financed with support from private individuals and foundations, has suffered from the economic downturn, running deficits for the past few years. Last year the Corcoran hired the museum consultant Lord Cultural Resources to help it get on a more secure financial footing. It recently leased an adjacent parking lot for about $1 million a year to a local real estate developer. It also sold a building in southwest Washington, where it once planned to relocate the College of Art + Design.
Washington City Paper reportedearlier on Monday that the board was considering a move.
The statement said that the museum was undertaking an exhaustive review of its options and invited the public to send comments to feedback@corcoran.org

        
Corcoran Gallery May Relocate After 115 Years
        
Job Cuts at Corcoran Gallery of Art
        
Gehry to Design Eisenhower Memorial
        
New Director for Experience Music Project
        
Corcoran to Close for Roof Repairs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Corcoran Gallery of Art; Art; Finances; Museums; Washington (DC); art & design; museums

ORGANIZATION: Corcoran Gallery of Art

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



171 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Gives Its Regards, to the Tune of $11.2 Billion, to New York

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: The Broadway League gives its bi-annual report on the economic impact of Broadway. 

 BODY:
The Broadway industry helped generate $11.2 billion in spending by New York City tourists, theater owners, and producers during the 2010-11 theater season, a 9 percent increase over the dollar amount in a comparable economic impact study two years earlier, according to the Broadway League trade association of producers.
The $11.2 billion included $8.95 billion in purchases by tourists from outside New York City who said that Broadway was a "very important reason" for their visit; $2.2 billion in expenses to mount and run Broadway shows; and $22.3 million in spending to renovate or refurbish some of the 40 Broadway theaters. Based on those figures Broadway helped generate $550 million in taxes to New York City during the 2010-11 season and support 86,000 jobs. 
The Broadway League conducts the economic study every two years; in the last report, which analyzed the 2008-9 theater season, Broadway took credit for generating a total of $10.3 billion. Among the big-budget new musicals on Broadway during the 2010-11 season were the record-setting $75 million "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" as well as "The Book of Mormon," "Wonderland," "Priscilla Queen of the Desert," "Catch Me If You Can" and "Sister Act." Premium-ticket prices also increased in dollar amount or quantity for several shows between 2008-09 and 2010-11.

        
'Spider-Man': Turn On the Lawyers
        
Don't Stop the Press! 'Newsies' Run Is Now Open-Ended
        
'Bring It On' Is Coming to Broadway This Summer
        
One Cinderella Apparently Not Enough for Broadway
        
'Peter and the Starcatcher' to Go on National Tour Next Year

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%) Broadway; New York City; Theater; Finances; Broadway League; Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (Play); Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark (Play)

ORGANIZATION: Broadway League

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



172 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Texas Is the Future

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: In the government's state-by-state survey of economic growth in 2011, six states' economies contracted, some were helped by manufacturing or energy, and Texas showed broad-based gains. 

 BODY:
Some interesting tidbits about the economic health of the 50 states, from the government's annual estimate of growth by state, released Tuesday:
Six state economies shrank last year.
While the nation's gross domestic product grew by 1.7 percent in 2011, economic output shrank in five states: Wyoming, down 1.2 percent; Alabama, down 0.8 percent; Mississippi, also down 0.8 percent; Maine, down 0.4 percent; New Jersey, down 0.5 percent; and Hawaii, down 0.2 percent.
Only one of those states, Wyoming, also declined in 2010.
Manufacturing is the past future.
Increased production of durable goods was the largest contributor to growth in 26 states. Oregon benefited most. The state's economy expanded by 4.7 percent last year - and more than 80 percent of the growth came from manufacturing.
In Michigan, manufacturing accounted for half of the 2.3 percent expansion.
Resource extraction is the future.
Excepting Oregon, fuel states posted the strongest growth. North Dakota's economy expanded by 7.6 percent; West Virginia's, 4.5 percent; Alaska's, 2.5 percent.
Or maybe Texas is the future.
The Texas economy grew 3.3 percent in 2011, and the growth was broad-based. Not just oil, not just manufacturing. Texas now accounts for 8.7 percent of the nation's economy, up from 7.4 percent a decade ago.

        
Is the Economy Growing Faster Than We Knew?
        
Nevada's Economy Shrank Fastest Last Year
        
Chump Change in the Latest G.D.P. Report
        
Corporate Tax Revenues Still Look Weak
        
Economy Shrinks as Consumers Cut Back

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%) Bureau of Economic Analysis; Gross Domestic Product; states; United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends; States (US); Commerce Department

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



173 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Why Small-Business Lending Is Such a Confusing Mess

BYLINE: AMI KASSAR


HIGHLIGHT: It is hard to get definitive answers to important questions about lending, but the author - a new contributor to You're the Boss - hopes to help. 

 BODY:
This is my first post for You're the Boss. I hope to add my two cents by shining some light on the state of small-business lending in the United States.
It might help if you understand what I do in my day job. I am a small-business owner myself. Two and a half years ago, like millions of Americans in the Great Recession, I lost my job - a cushy corporate job with a company where I had worked for a decade and from which I had expected to retire. The company, Advanta, went bankrupt.
The day after I was fired by the bankruptcy trustees, I started my own company, MultiFunding. The mission of MultiFunding is to help small-business owners and entrepreneurs through the challenges of getting the loans and working capital they need for their businesses. We serve as brokers, helping business owners find the right sources of capital for their companies. 
Over the past two and a half years I have worked with hundreds of small-business owners across the country in all types of industries and at all stages. We have seen some companies that are exploding with growth and others that are exploding with too much debt. We have seen some companies with too few sales and others with more sales than they can handle. We have seen small-business owners who almost seem to be printing money and have little trouble finding financing and others who can't find it anywhere. And of course, we have seen many companies that fall somewhere in between.
These experiences have convinced me that the small-business lending market is poorly understood - and with good reason. There are now loan products out there with annual percentage rates of 4 or 5 percent and others as high as 60 or even 80 percent. In part, this is the unintended consequence of the big banks' tightening up their lending; that tightening created a vacuum that has been filled by a whole new world of alternative lending companies that have opened to take advantage of the situation. Many of these alternative lenders are backed by hedge funds that demand high returns. Many small-business owners find dealing with these companies painful, but in many cases they feel they have no choice.
In our efforts to match borrowers with lenders at MultiFunding, we never work for the lenders. We are always trying to help the borrowers get the best loans for their situations: the lowest possible price with the best possible terms. We never take upfront fees from our clients, and we work purely on a success fee. And we only take on clients we think we can help. In other words, we eat if we are able to get successful outcomes for our clients; if not, we're out of luck.
Going through this process, over and over, we have learned a lot of valuable lessons that I hope to share with you on this blog. Here are three broad themes that I plan to cover.
Small-Business Lending Is a Highly Inefficient Market
Few owners have the time to investigate the ins and outs of the credit markets. The processes are confusing and overwhelming. If you type "small business loan" into Google, you will find a myriad of options but little help figuring out which ones make sense for your company's particular situation. If you stop in at a branch of a large bank, you most likely will meet employees who are not really empowered to help you and do not really have time to dig into the nuances of your business. I will try to bring some clarity to this situation, so that perhaps a few more owners will know what to expect and will make informed choices. And perhaps the market will become a little more efficient.
Small-Business Lending Is a Confusing Mess
Why has there been so much less lending the last few years? Have the banks simply stopped making the too-risky loans they were making before the economic crisis hit? Did they overreact and stop making even sound loans to sound companies? Or did lending drop because after the recession, businesses started to retrench and their demand for credit declined? Did all banks stop lending or was it just the big banks? It is very hard to get definitive answers to these kinds of questions.
One reason is that we can't even agree on important definitions. The Small Business Administration reports on lending activity, but nobody knows what percentage of overall lending the S.B.A. accounts for. The big banks release their scorecards on small-business lending but they define small businesses as those with revenue of $20 million or less. For its reports, the Federal Reserve defines small businesses as having revenue of $50 million or less. For its reports, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation defines small-business loans as those with balances of $1 million or less. The merchant cash advance lenders and factors do not release reports at all.
Many Small Business Owners Are Still Reeling
We have been reading reports that the recession is over and that the economy is on the mend. I can assure you that for most small-business owners that we talk to at MultiFunding, this is far from the case. Many are still reeling from the recession and struggling to catch up. Working capital is a fight. Banks are not easy to deal with, and fair loans are tough to come by. If you own a retail or service business, it is even harder.
I plan to dig deeper into these issues in coming posts.

        
Are Young Entrepreneurs Getting Enough Help?
        
How Big Can a Small Business Be? (And Why It Matters)
        
Is Bank of America Trying to Shed Small-Business Customers?
        
S.B.A. Loan Questions Answered on C-Span
        
S.B.A.-Backed Lending Set a Record in 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (96%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (93%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); WORKING CAPITAL (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) finance; lending; S.B.A. lending; small-business credit; Banking and Financial Institutions; Credit and Debt; Small Business; Small Business Administration; Searching for Capital

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%) Small Business Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



174 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: In El Barrio, a New Bookstore Is Counting on Its Community

BYLINE: FREDERICK BERNAS


HIGHLIGHT: Undaunted by the withering bookstore industry, a woman with a passion for literature has opened a Latino bookstore in East Harlem. 

 BODY:
It seems to make little business sense. Not when Amazon's dominance continues to threaten brick-and-mortar storefronts. And not when the economy has already claimed many small businesses.
None of that, however, has deterred Aurora Anaya-Cerda from pursuing her dream.
It took six years, but her quest to open a bookstore, La Casa Azul, has finally come to fruition. 
"This has been an incredible journey, overwhelming at times," Ms. Anaya-Cerda said. "So many people have told me they share my dream - to have this as a community space is something we've all wanted for East Harlem."
A mural on the outside of the store, which specializes in Latino literature, in English and in Spanish, depicts the faces of Julia de Burgos, Pedro Pietri and Piri Thomas - literary icons whose works have helped promote Puerto Rican culture. Raising awareness for these figures is part of Ms. Anaya-Cerda's mission to help El Barrio's Latino community get in touch with its heritage and history.
"This is going to be a mecca for writers from all over the country," said Rich Villar, a poet, who attended the store's opening on Friday. 
La Casa Azul lies at the nexus of a changing neighborhood at East 103rd Street and Lexington Avenue. Plush condos and gritty bodegas stand side by side. A large Mexican restaurant is just steps away, reflecting the demographic shift of recent years.
Ms. Anaya-Cerda was born in California, but was raised until she was 4 in Mexico. In 2005, she was captivated by El Barrio on her first trip to the East Coast.
"It felt like home, really comfortable. I could see myself living here," she said. "Two years later, I moved. It was a one-way ticket - no job, no friends. I gave myself three months. If I didn't have a job after that, I would go home."
She found a teaching post at an after-school program, before also going to work at El Museo del Barrio coordinating educational initiatives. "Throughout that whole time, while I was working these two jobs, I was also planning to open a store," Ms. Anaya-Cerda said.
Her love for literature goes back to childhood, when she was "surrounded by books" at a very young age. "My mother says that I'm a reader from the womb, because she would read a lot even when she was pregnant," Ms. Anaya-Cerda said.
"Literature played an important part in my life, and the bookstore idea started from there," she added.
But financial problems got in the way. Last year a bank loan was denied at the 11th hour, as Ms. Anaya-Cerda was about to sign her lease. She then raised $36,000 in online and private donations and received an interest-free matching loan from an investor, which enabled her to secure the space.
La Casa Azul ("The Blue House") is named after the painter Frida Kahlo's home in the outskirts of Mexico City, and Ms. Anaya-Cerda hopes to create a similarly intimate atmosphere. 
Marlene Pratt, who helped open the store, said of Ms. Anaya-Cerda: "She designed it with the concept of her grandmother's house. You see all the Mexican colors, nice and bright, but they complement each other. It's a modern interpretation."
Ms. Pratt is a founder of Casa Latina, a home and lifestyle brand serving Latino communities. She arranged a $5,000 furniture donation from Ikea to La Casa Azul. The store's basement reading lounge is filled with comfortable seating, and will serve as a gallery, while its backyard provides extra space for private or educational events.
"Artists will be coming every week, July through August, to teach different art projects," Ms. Anaya-Cerda said. "We will also have film screenings on the patio, author readings, and a 'meet the agent' workshop for writers."
If history is any predictor, Ms. Anaya-Cerda will have to be as creative as possible to keep her dream alive.
A few blocks away, another bookstore, Cemi Underground, closed in 2009, just two years after opening.
"We held events every Thursday and Friday - comedy, poetry, open mic nights - and the place would fill up," said Luis Cordero Santoni, a graphic artist, who had started the store and who also works for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
"I think we produced 150 events in two years,'' he said. "But the problem was that during the week, there would be very few sales. I was not making enough to sustain the bookstore."
Ms. Anaya-Cerda said she was fully aware of the economic perils she may face. But she said her past experience working at six bookstores made her "as prepared as I can be." 
"I'm taking on the challenge at full speed, because I think it's important for the community," she added.
Sery Colon also had unpleasant experiences trying to sell books the old-fashioned way.
Not only did he work at Cemi Underground, Mr. Colon was also the owner of Agueybana, a Latino bookstore on the Lower East Side that shuttered in 1998 when "the rent increased fourfold."
"One time, I remember somebody called to ask if I had a specific Puerto Rican book, and he dared to tell me it was $2 cheaper on Amazon," he continued. "That's what killed me."
Mr. Colon still occasionally dabbles in the trade. At a market outside El Museo del Barrio recently, he "made just one sale all day," yet he still believes an appetite for literature exists in East Harlem. "You need to know where you are, what kind of people you're serving, and what books interest them. You cannot carry just what you want to carry."
These cautionary tales have not discouraged Ms. Anaya-Cerda, who was in high spirits as a long line of people formed outside La Casa Azul on its opening night. "It feels amazing and surreal," she said. "This place is just how I dreamed it."

        
A Bookstore and a Hub for Readers
        
Searching for Latinos in Children's Literature: A Reading List
        
Abused East Harlem Dog Getting Care at Animal Shelter
        
Police Seeking Man Who Abused Dog in Elevator
        
A Store With Shelves Full of Crime Faces Its Demise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (61%) bookstores; East Harlem; Books and Literature; Hispanic-Americans; Shopping and Retail; East Harlem (NYC); Business

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) East Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



175 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2758 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Questions to Ask Mr. Dimon | Jamie Dimon's trip to Capitol Hill next week to explain JPMorgan Chase's multibillion-dollar trading debacle could quickly devolve into Washington Gotcha Theater. But it shouldn't, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. It should be used to draw out some real answers that will help inform the public and lawmakers about the risks of our banking system.
Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, has been pretty blunt about the trading losses, calling them sloppy, stupid and bad judgment. But, so far at least, he has sidestepped explaining in any detail how they happened and what actions the firm has since taken.
Among questions that lawmakers might consider asking Mr. Dimon in an effort to elicit illuminating and thoughtful answers:
On April 13, about a month before you disclosed the $2 billion trading loss, you called speculation about outsize risks in your chief investment office "a tempest in a teapot." What, if any, analysis had you personally conducted before making that statement? Do you believe you had all of the appropriate information at the time? If not, why not? Do you believe that you were provided with misinformation or were otherwise purposely misled? DealBook 
Blankfein Takes the Stand in Insider Trading Case | Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, testified on Monday for the second time in 15 months in an insider trading case at Federal District Court in Manhattan. He took the witness stand in the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, 63, a former Goldman director who has been charged with leaking corporate secrets about the bank to Raj Rajaratnam, the former hedge fund manager.
Last year, Mr. Blankfein testified against Mr. Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading. What Mr. Blankfein told jurors on Monday echoed his testimony during Mr. Rajaratnam's trial, which largely related to outlining certain Goldman board meetings and the secrecy surrounding the information discussed.
Though many spectators in the packed courtroom were eager to hear Mr. Blankfein, his testimony was largely tedious. A prosecutor used him to introduce numerous bone-dry exhibits to the jury, including the minutes and agendas of Goldman board meetings.
But the ever-entertaining Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who has grown increasingly frustrated over the slow pace of the trial, tried to liven up the proceedings. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Germany Open to a Deal Combining European Debt | The New York Times reports: "German officials remain adamant that they are not talking about euro bonds, or jointly issued debt, which they have dismissed as unconstitutional. More likely is a plan to combine much of Europe's bad debt into a single fund with the idea of paying it off over 25 years, an idea gaining traction in Germany as an alternative to euro bonds, officials say." NEW YORK TIMES
Wal-Mart Board Members Meet Shareholder Opposition | While the directors of Wal-Mart were re-elected on Friday, the number of "no" votes cast against four board members, including the chief executive, represented the most significant opposition any of them had encountered in an annual shareholder vote, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Paulson Settles Into Aspen for $49 Million | John A. Paulson, the hedge fund manager contending with a stretch of disappointing returns, purchased the 90-acre Hala Ranch and another property in Aspen for $49 million, CNBC reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Real estate experts said the two properties might have sold for more than $150 million in 2006 or 2007. CNBC
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Starbucks Makes $100 Million Bet on Baked Goods | In a bid to bolster its food offerings, Starbucks is buying Bay Bread, a company based in San Francisco that is the parent of La Boulange, for $100 million in cash, from the Next World Group. DealBook 
Google to Buy a Social Start-Up | Google has agreed to buy Meebo, a social publishing site, as it looks to build Google Plus into a more popular social network. The transaction was worth close to $100 million, an unidentified person with knowledge of the deal told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Rosneft of Russia Hires a TNK-BP Executive | Rosneft, the Russian oil giant, is strengthening its management team as it is said to be interested in buying the stake BP is selling in its joint venture, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Hutchison to Acquire Control of Partner Communications | Hutchison Whampoa agreed to buy a 75 percent stake of Scailex, the parent of the Israeli phone company Partner Communications, for $125 million in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Indian Firm Said to Weigh Bid for Conoco Assets | The Indian state-run energy giant Oil and Natural Gas Corporation is considering making an offer for some of ConocoPhillips's Canadian oil sands holdings valued at around $5 billion, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person with direct knowledge of the situation. REUTERS
Bankers Said to Explore Sale of CBS Advertising Unit | After CBS dropped hints that it might sell its billboard advertising unit, which it values at about $6 billion, bankers have been gauging interest among potential buyers, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Argentina Names New YPF Board | After taking control of the energy company YPF, the government of Argentina on Monday appointed 16 of the 17 directors, with Repsol, YPF's former owner, retaining one seat, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman Sachs Cuts a Little Deeper | The Wall Street firm laid off about 50 people last week, a number of them managing directors, according to people briefed on the matter. DealBook 
Marion O. Sandler, Former Golden West Co-Chief, Dies at 81 | Marion O. Sandler, a former banking executive whose sale of Golden West Financial to Wachovia had been blamed for contributing to the financial crisis, died on Friday at her home in San Francisco. She was 81. DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Closes at Lowest Level Since 2008 | Shares of Morgan Stanley fell 2.9 percent to close at $12.36 on Monday, amid concern that the firm could have its rating cut by Moody's. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Jefferies Said to Hire a Morgan Stanley Banker | Peter Bowden will be a managing director for energy banking at the Jefferies Group, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the move. BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan Projected to Report $4.2 Billion Trading Loss | The International Strategy and Investment Group estimated that JPMorgan Chase's trading loss would reduce second-quarter earnings to 65 cents a share, a revision from an earlier estimate of 93 cents, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan Gives More Authority to Operations Executive | Paul Compton, chief administrative officer of JPMorgan's investment bank and head of the company's global service center in India, is taking on additional responsibilities as deputy chief of operations, set to manage about half of the bank's global operations, Reuters reports, citing an internal memorandum. REUTERS
Pay Rises for Wall Street's Chiefs | Compensation rose by an average of 20.4 percent last year among 50 chief executives of the biggest financial companies by market capitalization, Bloomberg Markets Magazine reports in an annual ranking. Henry Kravis of K.K.R. ranked first, taking home $30 million. BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Spanish Bankers Urge Government to Seek European Funds | Emilio Botn, chairman of Banco Santander, estimated that Spain would be able to resolve its banking crisis with 40 billion euros ($50 billion) in financing from the European Union, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citigroup Bets on Identity Cards | The bank plans to issue badges to employees of Defense Department contractors, with the hope that one day these workers will collect paychecks on the cards and use them to pay business expenses, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
China Remains a Tough Market to Crack | Foreign banks like Citigroup and HSBC hold less than 2 percent of assets in China, the lowest share among emerging market economies, according to the International Monetary Fund, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Equity Funds Increase Investments in China | Even amid concerns that China's economic growth may be slowing, United States fund managers have invested $2.5 billion in Chinese stocks this year, according to EPFR Global, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
BlackRock's Chief Equity Strategist to Depart | The giant asset manager BlackRock said Robert Doll was retiring to focus more on his family, faith and philanthropic interests, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Asia Claims a Bigger Share of Global Private Equity | According to a new study by McKinsey & Company, the share of global private equity deals done in Asia doubled over the last four years, to 21 percent, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Private Equity Firms Circle Around Spain | So-called vulture funds are busy networking with Spanish officials, bankers said, as the country's lenders prepare to sell assets, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bidders for EFG-Hermes Revise Offer | The group of investors known as Planet IB vying for control of EFG-Hermes promised to match the guarantees and legal obligations provided by QInvest, the Egyptian bank's preferred partner, The Financial Times reports. EFG-Hermes has threatened legal action to fend off the approach. FINANCIAL TIMES
Fortress Bets on Japanese Real Estate | The Fortress Investment Group and Nomura Real Estate Holdings are looking to take advantage of a record amount of commercial real estate hitting the market in Japan, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Chesapeake Grants Icahn a Victory | Chesapeake Energy is replacing four of its nine board members with nominees chosen by its two largest shareholders, Carl C. Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management, The New York Times reports. The board is also implementing other governance changes that would make it easier for a hostile acquirer or other activist investors to seek control of the company, The Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Hedge Funds Bet Against the Euro in Record Numbers | The number of short positions by hedge funds against the euro increased to a record, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, The Financial Times reports. "We're entering uncharted territory," Philippe Meyer, head of foreign currency and rates research for corporates at Socit Gnrale, told the newspaper. He said the number of short positions was "increasing week by week, and we'll probably have another record next week." FINANCIAL TIMES
Another View: Hedge Funds of the Living Dead | Recent offshore case law has recognized an investor's right to seek a "just and equitable" windup of a hedge fund when it has gone into lockup mode, write two partners with the shareholder rights law firm Grant & Eisenhofer. DealBook 
Citadel Says Trading Programs Were Stolen | Citadel, the Chicago hedge fund run by Kenneth C. Griffin, said in a court petition that at least one former employee stole trading algorithms and brought them to another firm, Jump Trading, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Och-Ziff Beats the S.&P. 500 in May | The four main hedge funds of Och-Ziff Capital Management declined less than the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in May, MarketWatch reports. The performance offset earlier gains, but the funds were still in the black for the year, according to MarketWatch. MARKETWATCH
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Bernstein Releases a Dim Assessment of Facebook | Sanford C. Bernstein & Company issued an "underperform" rating on Facebook's stock, with a price target of $25, prompting the shares to fall to a new low on Monday, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Smaller Analysts Get a Chance to Shine on Facebook | The 40-day quiet period after Facebook's I.P.O. prevents analysts at the big firms involved in the deal from issuing opinions on the stock, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Traders Extend Bets Against Facebook | Some traders are making longer-term bets against Facebook by using options contracts expiring in August and September, after the company's first earnings report, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Lawmakers Question Facebook Over Plan to Expand Access | Two lawmakers sent a letter to Mark Zuckerberg asking for details on Facebook's reported plan to allow children under the age of 13 to use the site, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Evonik I.P.O. May Face Another Delay | Evonik Industries, the chemicals company that has been trying to go public since 2008, could be forced to postpone its planned I.P.O. in Frankfurt as investors seem unlikely to accept a valuation of 17 billion euros ($21.1 billion), The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Xiaomi of China Said to Be Valued at $4 Billion | Xiaomi Technology, a Chinese maker of smartphones, is in the final stages of a financing round that gives it a $4 billion valuation, with Digital Sky Technologies said to be an investor, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person with direct knowledge of the matter. REUTERS
San Francisco Braces for an Influx of Tech | With Twitter, Zynga and Yelp moving from the Silicon Valley to open offices in San Francisco, the promise of new jobs comes with fears about higher rents. The New York Times reports: "Apartment rents have soared to record highs as affordable housing advocates warn that a new wave of gentrification will price middle-class residents out of the city. At risk, many say, are the very qualities that have drawn generations of outsiders here, like the city's diversity and creativity. Families, black residents, artists and others will increasingly be forced across the bridge to Oakland, they warn." NEW YORK TIMES
Khosla Ventures Looks to Raise a Seed Fund | The disclosure by Khosla Ventures comes as seed financing becomes increasingly popular among venture capital firms, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
Stanford Professor Wins Invention Prize | Stephen Quake, a Stanford University professor, won $500,000 from a Massachusetts Institute of Technology program for his inventions, including a chip that can be used in developing cancer drugs. "Hopefully, it will give me a little more credibility with the investment community as we try to commercialize our inventions," he told The Associated Press. ASSOCIATED PRESS
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Corzine May Face Legal Claims | A document released on Monday by the trustee overseeing the return of more than $1 billion in missing customer money takes Jon S. Corzine and others at the firm to task for the firm's downfall. DealBook 
In Gupta Case, Motive Matters | The government does not have to prove motive for most crimes. But for insider trading cases, the government is required to show that a tipper had something to gain, Peter J. Henning writes in White Collar Watch. DealBook 
New Record for an Insider Trading Sentence | Matthew Kluger, a former corporate lawyer, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for helping run an insider trading scheme, a punishment that exceeds the 11 years handed to the former hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Dewey Creditors Retain a Law Firm | Brown Rudnick is representing the committee of unsecured creditors in the bankruptcy of Dewey & LeBoeuf, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Regulator Calls for Stricter Rules for Debt Bankers | The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, plans to propose rules protecting against conflicts of interests at firms that sell debt, mirroring rules for firms that deal stock, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A.I.G. Agrees to a $146.5 Million Settlement | A.I.G. and its affiliates have agreed to pay $146.5 million to settle a lawsuit by the states claiming that the insurance giant misreported billions of dollars in workers' compensation premiums, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Former Federal Prosecutor Joins Mortgage Task Force | Virginia Chavez Romano, a former assistant United States attorney in New York, has been hired by a new government team led by Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WITNESSES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EUROBONDS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (91%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



176 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: MF Global Dodged Capital Requirements, Report Says

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The revelation raises new questions about MF Global's actions in its last months, in particular, how it responded to regulators. 

 BODY:
Under pressure from regulators last summer to increase its capital cushion, MF Global moved some of its risky European debt holdings to an unregulated entity in an effort to avoid having to raise extra money, according to a new report. 
The revelation raises new questions about MF Global's actions in its last months, in particular, how it responded to regulators. The brokerage firm had previously disclosed that it had met the capital requirements, but never mentioned that it had transferred some bonds rather than raising additional money. 
The shift was detailed in a report by Louis J. Freeh, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of MF Global. The report is separate from the one issued Monday by James W. Giddens, the court-appointed trustee charged with recovering money for MF Global's customers.
"This strategy allowed the MF Global Group to transfer the economic benefits and risks," thus reducing the "regulatory capital requirements," the report by Mr. Freeh said.
Shifting the bonds to an unregulated entity to avoid capital requirements is unusual at financial firms, corporate accounting specialists say. Regulators expressed concerns about the maneuver, although ultimately they did not block it. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, said it lacked jurisdiction to pursue the matter further.
"It's a shell game, and the problem is the regulators buy off on this stuff, and then when it implodes, they always look so stupid," said Lynn E. Turner, the former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Common sense says why would you accept these types of shenanigans?"
The new details are part of Mr. Freeh's 119-page report outlining the status of his investigation of MF Global, which collapsed last October after misusing roughly $1 billion of customer money. In the report, which was filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York late Monday, Mr. Freeh said that creditors such as banks and big investors could have more than $3 billion in claims against the company.
"This report gets to the heart of the complex intercompany relationships inherent in a global firm that provided financing for its affiliates and subsidiaries all over the world," said Mr. Freeh, a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. "We believe this report provides increased transparency as to how the firm's capital flowed through these entities."
Mr. Freeh, who is responsible for recovering money on behalf of MF Global's creditors, has cast a worldwide net. The report lists claims against affiliates from Britain to Mauritius. But Mr. Freeh's biggest potential target is Mr. Giddens, the trustee whose job is to return customers' missing money.
Mr. Freeh has filed claims for more than $2.3 billion against a separate dealer entity that Mr. Giddens is overseeing, drawing the lines in an increasingly tense turf war between the men.
Ultimately, their missions - to claim a limited pool of money - are at odds. Mr. Giddens is working to get money from that pool for farmers, traders and hedge funds left with a roughly $1 billion hole in their accounts. Mr. Freeh is vying for much of the same funds, but on behalf of businesses and banks that are owed money by MF Global.
While publicly the men have played down tensions between them, privately the fight has become more acrimonious. Mr. Freeh's report is littered with references to Mr. Giddens's office not producing documents and information.
The tension could have affect customers. Mr. Giddens is expected to set aside a substantial amount of money because of Mr. Freeh's claims, which would "take those assets out of the pool available for distribution to customers until the claims are resolved," said Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for Mr. Giddens.
Mr. Giddens released his own status report earlier Monday. The 275-page document covered in painstaking detail the final weeks before MF Global's collapse, and raised the prospect of filing civil suits against top executives at the firm to recoup assets, including the former chief executive, Jon S. Corzine.
The report provided the most exhaustive accounting yet of what transpired at the firm, including its decision to tap customer money with repeated frequency as the business suffered a crisis of confidence.
What the reports from Mr. Freeh and Mr. Giddens have in common is the portrait they paint of MF Global and its leadership. The firm that emerges from their pages is one that was constantly flying by the seat of its pants, prone to risky decisions with few controls to keep it in check. While the chaos in the last days of the firm is well known, what the reports show is that aggressive behavior was taking place well before the market took its toll.
Mr. Freeh is still conducting an investigation of what happened at the commodities brokerage firm. Yet, the details on MF Global's efforts to skirt capital rules raise additional questions about what the firm - and its regulators - were doing to address a looming crisis.
Months before MF Global filed for bankruptcy, regulators raised concerns about the firm's $6 billion bet on European sovereign debt. At the time, worries about highly indebted nations like Greece, Spain and Italy were causing volatility in the financial markets.
Given the market turmoil, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, demanded that MF Global set aside extra money in case the trades soured. But MF Global objected, appealing the regulator's ruling to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Corzine, the former Democratic governor of New Jersey and a former head of Goldman Sachs, lobbied the S.E.C. to back down, flying down to Washington from New York to make his appeal in person.
He lost. The agency sided with Finra. In a September 2011 filing, MF Global said it had "increased its net capital and currently has net capital sufficient to exceed both the required minimum level and Finra's early-warning notification level."
But the disclosure did not give the full picture. While MF Global did move some cash around to protect against losses, the firm also transferred roughly $3 billion in holdings of Italian bonds from its brokerage arm to "FinCo," an unregulated entity of the firm, according to Mr. Freeh's report. By doing so, MF Global met its requirements without having to raise money.
At the time, MF Global held about $6 billion in the debt of Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal, representing about 14 percent of its assets and nearly five times the equity of the firm. The Italian bonds represented about half the firm's risky European position.
After Finra's capital request became known in October, investors were rattled, pushing the shares of MF Global sharply lower. Ratings agencies warned that they might cut the firm's credit ratings, escalating the fears in the marketplace. The effect of downgrades from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's were worsened by a poor earnings report. On Oct. 31, MF Global filed for bankruptcy.

        
Republicans Seek Independent Investigation of MF Global
        
Futures Regulator Updates Congress on MF Global Inquiry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JURISDICTION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Jon S. Corzine; MF Global; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Corzine, Jon S; Freeh, Louis J; Giddens, James W; Turner, Lynn E; MF Global|MFGLQ|Other OTC; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) MF Global

TICKER: MF Global; MFGLQ; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (84%) Corzine, Jon S; Freeh, Louis J; Giddens, James W; Turner, Lynn E

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) MAURITIUS (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



177 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: After Loss, JPMorgan Regulators in Spotlight

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Congress is expected to quiz regulators on Wednesday about their failure to keep an eye on the JPMorgan unit responsible for a trading loss of more than $2 billion. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - JPMorgan Chase's regulators will be in the spotlight here on Wednesday, when they testify before Congress on the bank's multibillion-dollar trading blunder and its implications for the future of Wall Street regulation.
One of the bank's primary regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, will face particular scrutiny for its oversight of the JPMorgan unit responsible for a trading loss of more than $2 billion.
JPMorgan disclosed the loss from its chief investment office last month. Just months earlier, top executives from the chief investment office had traveled to Washington to persuade the comptroller that new trading restrictions threatened the future of the bank. The executives argued that the so-called Volcker Rule could prevent the powerful unit from hedging risk throughout the bank.
 "This is important to maintaining the safety and soundness of JPMorgan," Ina R. Drew, then the head of the chief investment office, told comptroller officials, recalled one person who attended the meeting.
Ms. Drew was joined by five other JPMorgan executives who echoed her concerns about the Volcker Rule, saying the regulatory crackdown "could restrict or cast in doubt strategies" that the bank "successfully employed during the financial crisis," according to a memo summarizing the meeting.
The trading blowup that followed has now become a flash point in the fierce debate over the Volcker Rule, which would ban banks from trading with their own money in an effort to prevent them from placing risky wagers while enjoying government backing.
In their testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, regulators are expected to defend their oversight of JPMorgan, which had significant sway with policy makers after emerging from the 2008 financial crisis relatively unscathed. None of the more than 100 regulators embedded in JPMorgan's Manhattan headquarters kept daily watch over the chief investment office, people briefed on the matter have said, raising questions about gaps in oversight.
In testimony prepared for Wednesday's hearing, the comptroller of the currency, Thomas J. Curry, said that his office "has been meeting daily with bank management" on its response to the trading loss and its risk management. As part of its review, he said, the comptroller's office will examine how employees in the chief investment office were paid and whether JPMorgan will try to claw back some of their compensation. He added that the agency was reviewing how to "improve O.C.C. supervisory approaches."
The committee will also hear from officials of the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee, said in a statement that he hoped to hear from regulators "on potential implications of the loss for supervision and Wall Street reform rule-making going forward."
The testimony from regulators, while significant, is only the opening act for a hotly anticipated hearing next week with JPMorgan's chief executive, Jamie Dimon. Once considered Washington's favorite banker, Mr. Dimon is also expected to testify before the House Financial Services Committee.
Federal investigators, meanwhile, are taking a closer look at JPMorgan's trades. In the wake of announcing that it lost at least $2 billion on positions tied to complex credit derivatives, JPMorgan has received requests for documents and information from an array of federal investigators, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and federal prosecutors in Manhattan, according to people briefed on the matter. Federal authorities are examining, among other matters, JPMorgan's accounting practices and whether the bank's public disclosures played down the dire state of the trades.
The trades also hit at the heart of the controversy surrounding the Volcker Rule, named after Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve. Under the rule, which regulators expect to complete in coming months, banks may still hedge their risk.
A difficult question remains for regulators: What amounts to hedging? JPMorgan officials say the chief investment office initially hedged the bank's broad exposure to the markets, until the positions morphed into a proprietary bet.
But some Democratic lawmakers have seized on the loss to illustrate the case for the Volcker Rule, saying that tough rules are needed to rein in the risk-taking on Wall Street.
"The growing losses from JPMorgan's fiasco underscore the urgent need for a strong Volcker Rule firewall that lays out bright, clear lines between banks and hedge funds," said Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat and a member of the Senate Banking Committee who has championed the rule. "I'm hopeful that the O.C.C. and others will listen to the warning sirens JPMorgan has sounded and implement a loophole-free Volcker Rule without delay."
Amid the scrutiny from Washington, other big banks are moving to stem the fallout from JPMorgan's mistake. In a recent meeting with regulators, one Wall Street official was told it was too soon to tell whether JPMorgan's trading would affect the outcome of the Volcker Rule. The regulators acknowledged, however, that the episode could ultimately "reset the table" for the rule-writing process.
JPMorgan has not let up, either. One day after the bank disclosed its losses, a team of JPMorgan officials met with a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to discuss the Volcker Rule and whether other new rules would apply to American banks operating overseas. The meeting, which was scheduled before the announcement of the trading loss and was held at the bank's New York offices, began with a description of what went wrong in the chief investment office, a person who attended the meeting said.
The bank, which runs one of the best-financed lobbying operations within the commercial banking industry, second this year only to Wells Fargo, noted that it supported many new rules in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. In the company's annual report, Mr. Dimon wrote: "If the intent of the Volcker Rule was to eliminate pure proprietary trading and to ensure that market making is done in a way that won't jeopardize a financial institution, we agree."
The bank has been concerned about the scope of the hedging exemptions. Through hedging, the chief investment office deftly steered the bank through the 2008 financial crisis. JPMorgan did not record a losing quarter at a time when the rest of Wall Street nearly collapsed, a fact that gave the investment unit credibility on Wall Street and in Washington.
When Ms. Drew and other executives met with the comptroller officials in February, they pointed to the unit's success during the crisis. The executives arrived at the comptroller's Washington offices after eating lunch at a local Italian restaurant - and attending another Volcker-related meeting at the Federal Reserve.
At the end of the trip, some JPMorgan officials remarked that the comptroller officials were particularly familiar with the issues facing the investment unit.
"They get it," one person remarked.

        
Some Questions to Ask Mr. Dimon
        
Pressure Continues on Regulators to Approve Volcker Rule

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%) Congress; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Volcker Rule; House of Representatives; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Senate; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (91%) House of Representatives; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Senate

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



178 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Governors' Races Can Be a Contrary Indicator for Presidential Elections

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: One thing that the Wisconsin recall is unlikely to do is tell us much about how the presidential contest in the state will evolve in November. 

 BODY:
The results of the recall election in Wisconsin on Tuesday night may tell us something about the future of the labor movement and the salience of collective bargaining rights as an issue to swing voters. A win by Gov. Scott Walker, who is ahead in the polls, might make other Republican governors who have sought to pare collective bargaining, like John Kasich of Ohio, breathe a little easier when they come up for election again.
But one thing that the recall is unlikely to do is tell us much about how the presidential contest in Wisconsin is likely to evolve in November. The politics for a governor's campaign are often subject to different currents than presidential ones, and historically the party identification of a state's governor has said little about how presidential candidates will fare there.
Over the past 40 years, in fact, the relationship has run in the reverse direction than you might expect. The Democratic presidential candidate has typically done a little when the state's governor is a Republican, and vice versa.

In the chart below, I've listed the popular vote margin in presidential elections since 1972, based on whether the governor of the state was a Democrat or Republican at the time the presidential vote took place. The values are weighted by the turnout in each state, so larger states like California have more influence in the calculation than smaller ones like Wyoming, just as they do in the overall presidential contest.
In 7 of the 10 elections since 1972, the Democratic candidate actually did slightly better in states with Republican governors, while Republican candidates did better in states with Democratic ones. The difference has been profound in some years, like 1972, 1984 and 1996. 
In other years the differences have been more modest, or have run in the more intuitive direction. In 2008, for example, President Obama won states with Democratic governors by an average of about 10 points, against a 3-point margin in states with Republican ones. 
Still, in the past 10 presidential elections as a whole, the presidential candidate has done a point or two better when the governor of the state is of the party.
An alternative might be to look at the change in the presidential vote from one election to the next, which might do a better job of capturing the shifting dynamics in each state. However, this tells largely the same story. On average, the Democratic presidential candidate has lost two points from the previous election when the governor of the state is a Democrat, while making slight gains when the state's governor is a Republican.
This latter pattern held true even in 2008. Although Mr. Obama did better overall in states with Democratic governors, he gained slightly more ground relative to John Kerry's margin -- adding 11 points rather than 9 points -- in states with Republican governors.
What's going on here? Causation, of course, is more difficult to interpret then correlation. The shift away from voting for Democrats in the South, which began in 1964 at the presidential level, was much more sluggish in races for governor and other statewide offices. In 1988, for instance, there were still Democratic governors in many southern states like Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky and Tennessee, but Michael Dukakis did not win any of those states. This Southern shift can often dominate other factors in historical analyses of trends in presidential voting.
The other hypothesis, which is interesting to contemplate but would require a more thorough analysis to demonstrate, is that voters seek to engage in a certain degree of electoral balancing. If they know their state is going to be run by a Democrat -- remember, most states do not hold races for governor in presidential election years -- they might be more willing at the margin to contemplate voting for a Republican presidential candidate, and vice versa.
So should Mr. Obama actually cheer a victory for Mr. Walker? I certainly wouldn't go that far. And even if the recall election is largely irrelevant to the presidential race, it could be a leading indicator for elections where circumstances are more similar to Wisconsin, such as elsewhere that an incumbent Republican governor is on the ballot.
Still, the very same polls that have shown swing voters breaking for Mr. Walker in Wisconsin have found some of the same voters planning to vote for Mr. Obama in November. Some of these may actually be "pro-incumbent" voters who view the economy as having improved. Alternatively, Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee has noted, some independents and even Democrats might be mildly unhappy with Mr. Walker, but think recalling him from office early goes too far.
The reality of the presidential race is one thing, however, and the perception is another. The Romney or Obama campaigns could either react to the recall results by putting more resources into Wisconsin or by pulling them out. Those choices affect the outcome in November. 
But they wouldn't do so without exerting a strategic price elsewhere. Current polls of the presidential race in Wisconsin find Mr. Obama performing a few percentage points better there than he is in the country as a whole, an outcome that is typical for Democratic candidates in Wisconsin in recent years. The state could nevertheless be competitive, particularly if Mr. Obama's overall standing deteriorates. 
However, Wisconsin may not be as close to the electoral tipping point as other states like Ohio, Colorado or Virginia, where state polls are tracking the national numbers more precisely. Resources spent in Wisconsin could trade-off with those in these states, where a victory might be more likely to flip the entire election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); GOVERNORS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%) Walker, Scott K; Governors (US); Presidential Election of 2012; Wisconsin; Politics

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN KASICH (57%) Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



179 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Boardroom Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A flurry of executive maneuvers have recently occurred within Volkswagen Group and Infiniti. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Johan de Nysschen, the Audi of America president who abruptly resigned from his post last week, is scheduled to lead Nissan's Inifiniti luxury division, the Japanese automaker announced Monday. Mr. de Nysschen will report to Andy Palmer, Nissan's executive vice president of product planning, marketing and communications, from the luxury brand's new headquarters in Hong Kong. In a letter to Audi dealers last week, Mr. de Nysschen said he thrived on "turnaround strategies" and "building companies," a disposition that should suit Infiniti, given its goal of delivering 500,000 vehicles by 2016. It delivered roughly 150,000 units globally in 2011. (Infiniti)
 Mr. de Nysschen's departure preceded a flurry of maneuvers at Volkswagen Group, his former employer. Over the weekend Jochem Heizmann, the group board member charged with overseeing commercial vehicles, was named to lead a newly created function on the management board dedicated to China. At the brand level Wolfgang Schreiber, the chief executive of VW's commercial vehicles unit, was named the new chief executive of Bentley and president of Bugatti, effective Sept. 1. He will replace Wolfgang Drheimer, who will move to a technology leadership position on the board of Audi AG. Other brand-level executive changes can be viewed in the following news release. (Volkswagen Group)
 Chevrolet dealers in California report dwindling supplies and high demand for the Volt plug-in hybrid. Vehicles destined for dealerships in California received upgraded emissions equipment for the 2012 model year, making them eligible for certain state incentives and high-occupancy-vehicle lane privileges. Despite the demand, Chevrolet still intends to idle its plant in Hamtramck, Mich., for three weeks this summer. (The Detroit Free Press)
 A 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO that was built for Sir Stirling Moss, the highly decorated racecar driver, reportedly sold for $35 million, the highest known price paid for a car. Given it was a private sale, terms of the transaction, which occurred in May, were not announced. According to two unidentified vintage-car dealers interviewed by Bloomberg, the GTO, which was painted an apple green, was sold by Eric Heerema, a Dutchman, to Craig McCaw, an American collector. Two other GTOs were reportedly sold in separate private sales earlier this year for more than $20 million. (Bloomberg)
 Owing to high demand, Fiat ceased taking orders for the 2012 Fiat 500 Abarth because its plant in Toluca, Mexico, was at maximum capacity. Unidentified sources told The Detroit News that new orders would be fulfilled for the 2013 Abarth beginning in the fall. (The Detroit News)

        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
After Hayabusa Heart Transplants, Smart Cars That Pump Fire
        
Wheelies: The Extended Wheelbase Edition
        
Wheelies: The Highly Attuned Edition
        
Johan de Nysschen, Audi of America President, Resigns From Post

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); BRANDING (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (65%); AUTO RACING (62%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%) 250 GTO; Abarth; Audi; California; Chevrolet Volt; Ferrari; fiat 500; HOV; Infiniti; Johan de Nysschen; Stirling Moss; Volkswagen; Automobiles; Collectors and Collections; Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Fiat SpA; Infiniti Division of Nissan Motor Co; Volkswagen AG; Hong Kong; Fiat SpA|FIATY|other-OTC; Volkswagen AG|VLKAY|Other OTC; Collectible Cars; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (93%); AUDI AG (85%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Fiat SpA; Infiniti Division of Nissan Motor Co; Volkswagen AG

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (93%); VKW (LSE) (93%); NSU (FRA) (85%); 7201 (TSE) (84%) Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Volkswagen AG; VLKAY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



180 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Rich Nontaxpayers

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Where Presidents Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan sought to tax high-income people who were paying no taxes, the current Republican leadership seems much more concerned with taxing poor and low-income people, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
An oft-repeated Republican talking point is that close to half of all federal income tax filers have no tax liability. Prominent Republicans often imply that these people ought to be paying federal income taxes - and that they don't is a major cause of the budget deficit.
Last year, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, declared that taxes on the rich should not be raised until the poor are taxed. "I think many taxpayers are skeptical that the answer to our fiscal problems is for them to sacrifice more, when almost half of all households are not paying any income taxes," Mr. Hatch said.
In April, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said it was "unfair" that 45 percent of people don't pay any federal income taxes. Asked if he wanted to increase taxes on these people, he replied, "You've got to discuss that issue."
In May, Richard Mourdock, the Republican Senate nominee in Indiana, likened the current split between taxpayers and nontaxpayers to the pre-Civil War division of the nation between slave and free. Consciously using Abraham Lincoln's famous "house divided" terminology from 1858, Mr. Mourdock said, "When 47 percent are paying no income taxes - they do pay Social Security, but they are not paying income taxes - and 53 percent are carrying the load, we are a house divided."
In a McClatchy-Marist College poll in early November, 71 percent of Republicans said they believed the poor should not be exempt from income taxes and only 26 percent said they thought the poor should not have to pay them. 
This is ironic, because two of the measures most responsible for the rise in the number of nontaxpayers are the earned income tax credit and the child credit - both Republican initiatives. Together they account for 30 percent of the nontaxpaying population, according to the Tax Policy Center.
Once upon a time, Republicans were more concerned about the number of rich people with no income tax liability.
On Jan. 17, 1969, just days before Richard Nixon's inauguration, the departing treasury secretary, Joseph Barr, disclosed that in 1967, 155 Americans with an income of more than $200,000 had no income tax liability, including 21 with an income above $1 million.
This was considered such a scandal that Nixon sent a tax package drafted by the Johnson administration to Congress with his endorsement. When the Tax Reform Act of 1969 was enacted, including a minimum tax to force rich people to pay something, he praised that provision.
As Nixon said in his signing statement: 
 A large number of high-income persons who have paid little or no federal income taxes will now bear a fairer share of the tax burden through enactment of a minimum income tax comparable to the proposal that I submitted to the Congress, which closes the loopholes that permitted much of this tax avoidance.
Ronald Reagan defended his tax reform proposal on the grounds that it would reduce the number of nontaxpaying rich people. In a June 6, 1985, speech, he said: 
We're going to close the unproductive tax loopholes that have allowed some of the truly wealthy to avoid paying their fair share. In theory, some of those loopholes were understandable, but in practice they sometimes made it possible for millionaires to pay nothing, while a bus driver was paying 10 percent of his salary, and that's crazy. It's time we stopped it.
Among the specific measures Reagan supported to increase tax fairness was an increase in the tax on capital gains to 28 percent from 20 percent.
The Nixon and Reagan initiatives were unsuccessful in eliminating nontaxpayers among the well to do, and in recent years the number has risen sharply, especially after enactment of the 2003 tax bill, which sharply lowered taxes on the wealthy by dropping the tax rate on both stock dividends and capital gains to 15 percent, from 35 percent and 20 percent, respectively.
According to newly released data from the Internal Revenue Service, the number of tax filers with no federal income tax liability among those with an income of $200,000 or more has risen to more than 20,000, just over half of 1 percent of all those with an income over $200,000. In 2009, about four million returns listed such an income out of 140 million total returns.
The data also show that among those with an income over $200,000, many paid relatively low tax rates: 3.3 percent paid less than 10 percent, 10 percent paid 10 to 15 percent, 37.2 percent paid 15 to 20 percent, 30.4 percent paid 20 to 25 percent and 16.7 percent paid 25 to 30 percent. Just 2.4 percent paid more than 30 percent.
Republicans are always quick to attack Democrats for waging "class warfare" whenever they suggest that the wealthy ought to pay more taxes to help reduce the deficit and prevent the decimation of programs to aid the poor. 
But Republicans also engage in class warfare when they suggest that the poor are to blame for deficits because so few pay federal income taxes. Those among the wealthy who are paying no income taxes at least deserve equal time.

        
Would a Higher Top Tax Rate Raise Revenues?
        
Fanning the Flames of Class Warfare
        
Taxes and Employment
        
How to Really Simplify the Tax Code
        
Republicans and Fiscal Responsibility

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); INCOME TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAX REFORM (74%) Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; deficit reduction; Income Inequality; Income Tax; politics; poor; Poverty; Richard Nixon; Ronald Reagan; tax cuts; tax rates; taxes; Cantor, Eric; Republican Party; Senate; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); ERIC CANTOR (88%); ORRIN HATCH (73%) Cantor, Eric

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



181 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: The Wisconsin Recall

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A call for caution: Let's not over-interpret the results. 

 BODY:
Whatever happens in today's gubernatorial recall election in Wisconsin, let's not over-interpret the results.
We all know what spurred the recall movement against Gov. Scott Walker: His successful effort to deny government employees collective bargaining rights, and to balance the state's budget on the backs of working people.
But the pro-recall forces would be wrong to portray a victory today as an endorsement of labor contracts that are blind to changes in the global economy and to the rising costs of pensions and health insurance.

Mr. Walker would be equally wrong to take a victory today as a vote against labor unions in general and public-service labor unions in particular, or as popular acclaim for the particular budgeting choices he has made.
A majority of Wisconsinites might very well disagree with Mr. Walker's decisions without thinking he deserves to get thrown out of office mid-term. The bar for that is high, and it ought to be. This marks only the third time in the nation's history that a governor has faced a recall election.
As the Republican National Committee chairman, Reince Priebus, said last week: "There's a decent amount of Democrats out there in focus groups saying, 'We're not Republicans, but we think this recall stuff is out of control. The fact that we have a legislative disagreement with Walker is not justification for this recall.'"
If the polls are correct, Mr. Walker will win tonight. But he might want to study Mr. Priebus's remark before his victory speech. 

        
The War on Organized Labor
        
Opinion Report: Scott Walker's Agenda
        
Opinion Report: Stop Using Peat Moss
        
Good Jobs and Bad Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); BUDGETS (72%); HISTORY (67%); FOCUS GROUPS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%) collective bargaining; recall elections; Scott Walker; unions; Walker, Scott K; Collective Bargaining

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (92%) Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



182 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: What Wisconsin Means - and Doesn't

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: There are reasons to doubt whether Gov. Scott Walker's fate tells us much about what will happen in the presidential race in November. 

 BODY:
As soon as the results are in from Wisconsin Tuesday night - and probably before - the chattering about the national implications will kick into overdrive.
It happens almost every time. Remember the special election for Anthony D. Wiener's House seat in New York last year that flipped the district's representation to Republican? Or how about the conservative, upstate New York seat that went for a Democrats earlier in 2011?
As in both of those races - and countless others - the effort to recall Scott Walker, the Republican governor of Wisconsin, is being treated as a kind of early warning system for the presidential campaign this November.
But there are important reasons to doubt whether Mr. Walker's fate tells us much about President Obama's chances of winning Wisconsin, much less whether it serves as a model for how the rest of the country might be feeling in five months.
That's not to say it's unimportant or irrelevant to politics more broadly. There are clearly some lessons that can be drawn by both
sides after the outcome in Wisconsin is known (see below for some of those lessons).
But first, here are five reasons why the results in Wisconsin might not say much about anything except Wisconsin.
1. CANDIDATES MATTER In Wisconsin, a recall effort is essentially a new election, complete with a challenger and an incumbent. In this case, it's a rematch between Mr. Walker and the man he beat to take the job two years ago, Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee.

Both candidates have tried to shift voter attention to broader, national issues. Mr. Walker has tried to link Mr. Barrett to the gloomy economy and the president; Mr. Barrett has sought to portray Mr. Walker as part of a conservative anti-union movement and a clone of Mitt Romney.
But in the end, voters have to walk into the ballot box and vote for one of the two men. And because Mr. Barrett and Mr. Walker faced each other just two years ago, the choice for voters is a familiar one.
The same voters will be presented with a very different choice on Nov. 6 - a choice between President Obama and Mitt Romney, two men whose campaigns, style and accomplishments are very different from the men on the ballot on Tuesday.
2. RECALLS FEEL WRONG For many voters, the idea of making a switch midstream just feels wrong. That's how they do things in Europe's parliamentary systems, where elections seem to pop up at the drop of a hat. To some, it just doesn't seem American.
As a result, Mr. Walker is likely to benefit from a sentiment that will not be present in November - a kind of benefit of the doubt for the incumbent. That may help to explain why polls ahead of Tuesday's voting suggested that some voters who are backing Mr. Walker were also planning to vote for Mr. Obama in November.
That's not to say that recalls can't ever be successful. In California Arnold Schwarzenegger defeated Gray Davis, the Democratic
governor, in a recall, only the second successful recall of a governor in American history. But as in most things involving California, it may have been a special case of celebrity-meets-politics.
3. LOCAL ISSUES The recall in Wisconsin was born of a very specific local issue: union rights. And while that issue is not unique to the Badger State, it's certainly not among the top concerns of voters in the presidential campaign.
Also, Mr. Walker has tied his initiative to scale back collective bargaining rights for public employee unions to the state's specific budget woes. Those budget problems are very different from the ones facing the federal government.
Perhaps because he wanted to avoid turning a local-issues race into a national referendum, Mr. Obama largely stayed out of Wisconsin. Even as he traveled to nearby states, the president did not wade into the middle of the contest with a big rally on behalf of Mr. Barrett. That
helped keep a Wisconsin race about Wisconsin's issues.
4. MONEY TALKS In the presidential contest, Mr. Obama and his allies may end up getting outspent by Mr. Romney and the "Super PACs" behind him. But he won't get outspent by nearly the amount that Mr. Barrett's campaign was outspent by Mr. Walker's - about 7 to 1.
Thanks in part to a state law that allows unlimited fund-raising during a recall, Mr. Walker raised nearly $30 million, trouncing Mr. Barrett's fund-raising. Including outside groups, the gap is still wide -- $45.6 million spent on behalf of Mr. Walker as of May 21, and $17.9 million for Mr. Barrett. If Mr. Walker wins, the difference may have been the money, and that will be very different in the national context.
5. FIVE MORE MONTHS Whatever message voters in Wisconsin might be sending on Tuesday, they are doing so in early June. That's a long way off from the November elections, when Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama will face off.
In the wake of the grim jobs report last Friday, voters in Wisconsin could be feeling particularly grumpy about the economy. They could decide to take that out on Mr. Barrett, because he's in the same party as Mr. Obama. Or they could choose to blame the incumbent, Mr. Walker.
Either way, the mood could be significantly different in November. If the jobs picture turns around, as it has each fall and winter for the
past two years, Mr. Obama could be facing an electorate with a very different mood. Or not. There's just no way to know.
Despite all of that, the election in Wisconsin could provide some important lessons for Republicans and Democrats, especially as
they contemplate how much money to sink into Wisconsin in the presidential contest.
Here are three of those lessons.
ORGANIZATION MATTERS Speaking on MSNBC on Monday, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Commitee, said that the party had worked extensively on behalf of Mr. Barrett. She also said that while Mr. Obama had not appeared in the state, his campaign operation - Obama for America - was fully engaged.
If true, the Wisconsin race could be a signal of how ready Mr. Obama's operation is. There's not likely to be a bigger real-world test ahead
of November's elections than Wisconsin's recall. If Mr. Barrett wins, that could be a good sign for Mr. Obama, who won Wisconsin in 2008.
On the other hand, Republicans in Wisconsin have an opportunity to prove that they can match Mr. Obama's organization despite having just gone through a bruising presidential primary. Reince R. Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, is from Wisconsin and clearly has something to prove.
If Mr. Walker wins, it could be a good sign that Mr. Romney and Mr. Priebus will benefit from the merger of the Boston and Washington
operations.
UNION TURNOUT One of Mr. Obama's biggest advantages may be the labor movement's experience with voter turnout operations. Because of the issue that motivated them, the unions have worked especially hard to motivate their supporters.
If the labor movement is able to take what it learns in Wisconsin and apply it to their operations across the country, it could help the president. And even if that doesn't happen, the unions in Wisconsin will have a better handle on how to turn out Wisconsin voters come November. That could help Mr. Obama keep the state in his column.
ECONOMIC MOOD Even though the Wisconsin recall was about Wisconsin, the undercurrent of the nation's economic situation was still present. Both campaigns will almost certainly pore over the exit polls and other information to try and glean lessons from the voter behavior.
That may be tough. But both sides will try anyway, because the stakes are so high. The party that can better tap into the electorate's mood when it comes to the economy will almost certainly win.

        
Wisconsin G.O.P. Sees Insurance in Placeholder Candidates
        
Wisconsin Primary Overshadowed by Recall
        
Politics of Wisconsin Labor Fight Spread to Washington
        
Your Questions About the Wisconsin Recall
        
Obama Calls to Congratulate His Official Opponent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (62%) 2012; barack obama; Gov. Scott Walker; labor; recall; recall election; Reince Priebus; Tom Barrett; Wisconsin; Barrett, Tom; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Elections; The Caucus

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%) Barrett, Tom; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



183 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Critique of Obama Jobs Record Puts Romney in a Bind

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney wants to lop off a year from his economic record as governor of Massachusetts -- but not from President Obama's. 

 BODY:
If there's one thing Mitt Romney cannot stand, it's when President Obama blames the economic situation he inherited from former president George W. Bush for the country's current gloomy challenges.
"What he's very good at is finding other people to blame," Mr. Romney said at a fund-raiser in San Diego recently. At an event in Michigan, he mocked Mr. Obama for trying to evade responsibility for the economy by blaming "his predecessor, the Congress, the one percent, oil companies, and A.T.M.s."
So it was interesting to hear Mr. Romney's own aides over the weekend try to explain some of the less flattering statistics from Mr. Romney's time as governor of Massachusetts.
"He inherited a $3-billion projected deficit," Ed Gillespie, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, explained on Fox News Sunday.
Mr. Gillespie said it was unfair to judge Mr. Romney's record on job creation by including all four years of his tenure. He said the statistic that Mr. Romney was 47th in job creation during his time in office was calculated by "diluting it with the first year in office, when he came into office, and it was 50th in job creation."
Essentially, he was arguing that Mr. Romney's first year, in 2003, shouldn't be counted.
Eric Fehrnstrom, another top aide to Mr. Romney, also blamed the situation that the governor inherited - paradoxically, from Republican governors who occupied the Statehouse for the previous 12 years.
"When Mitt Romney arrived, Massachusetts was an economic basket house," Mr. Fehrnstrom said on ABC's "This Week" program on Sunday. "If you throw D.C. into the mix, we were 51 out of 51."
Mr. Obama's team was incredulous. On a conference call with reporters, David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president's campaign, accused Mr. Romney's campaign of "breathtaking hypocrisy" for using the same excuse that their candidate has been hammering the president for. 
"Their answer to all of this was. 'Well you really can't include his first year because you know he inherited a really tough economic situation,' " Mr. Axelrod said. "They've painted themselves into a corner here. And now that double standard is clear and they're going to have to explain it to the American people."
In fact, the most serious attacks from Mr. Romney involve exactly the kind of focus on Mr. Obama's first year in office that the Republican advisers were trying to avoid.
Mr. Romney frequently says that Mr. Obama has presided over an economy that has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. In a recent news release, the Republican campaign said, "Under President Obama, the nation has lost 552,000 jobs."
But that statistic includes Mr. Obama's first year in office, and especially the months of February, March and April, when monthly job losses from the economic collapse were at 700,000 or higher.
Just ignoring February of 2009, before any of Mr. Obama's policies - including the economic stimulus - had been put into place, would wipe away all 552,000 lost jobs, giving the president a record of creating 172,000 jobs.
If Mr. Romney's team were to ignore Mr. Obama's first year in office - as Mr. Gillespie suggested should be done for Mr. Romney's first year as governor - then the president would have added about 3.7 million jobs to the economy.
Of course, Mr. Romney's campaign is unlikely to change its rhetoric or strategy. His bid for the White House depends on the idea that Mr. Obama has made the economy worse. Because the country has been adding jobs for nearly two years, Mr. Romney's argument depends on the steep job losses in Mr. Obama's first year in office.
But the campaign does need to find a way to defend Mr. Romney's record as governor against the criticism that the state lagged behind the rest of the country in job creation while he was in office.
Mr. Obama's campaign is making that charge aggressively. Mr. Axelrod said on Monday that the campaign is spending about $10 million on a television ad that tries to undermine Mr. Romney's gubernatorial record. The ad is running in nine battleground states.
"When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs," the narrator in the ad says. "And fell to
47th in job creation. Fourth from the bottom."
Both campaigns face the same conundrum: their candidate governed in periods following economic slowdowns that weigh down the statistics that might otherwise look rosier.
On Fox News Sunday, Mr. Fehrnstrom urged viewers to look at how Mr. Romney fared at the end of his term, when the economy had fired back up again. By that measure, he said, Massachusetts was not 47th in job creation.
"By the time Mitt Romney left four years later, we were in the middle of the pack," Mr. Fehrnstrom said. "We were 30th in the nation in terms of job growth. That's the trend line that you want to see."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



184 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: In Texas, Romney Raises Money and Attacks Obama

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney argued that the economy had stalled under President Obama, and that Mr. Obama did not deserve credit for any improvements that might occur between now and November. 

 BODY:
FORT WORTH, Tex. - Mitt Romney headed to Texas on Tuesday, making his way across the state for back-to-back days of fund-raisers. But before he started, he laid out his fundamental campaign message to voters at an office systems warehouse here, arguing that the economy had stalled under President Obama, and that Mr. Obama did not deserve credit for any improvements that might occur between now and November.
"I do hope things are getting better," Mr. Romney told the crowd of several hundred people, who braved the heat and blasting country music to hear him speak. "I really hope that things are getting better. And there's some signs things are getting better, albeit at a very slow rate. The president wants to hang onto that twig, that maybe he made things a little better, but the truth is, he did not make things better. If they get better, it's in spite of him, not because of him."
Mr. Romney also took aim at Mr. Obama's new re-election campaign slogan, "Forward."
"There's a lot of people in this country having hard times," Mr. Romney said. "And in the light of that, it's kind of surprising to me that the president has chosen as his campaign slogan, 'Forward.' "
"Forward over a cliff?" he asked, to laughter. "Look, I think it's time for a change, not going forward with our president."
Mr. Romney has cast himself as a turnaround expert who can use his years in the private sector to help fix a struggling economy, and his challenge now is to welcome any good economic news, while still denying Mr. Obama credit for signs of growth or general economic improvement. 
Mr. Romney also made sure to give a shout-out to Texas, which on Tuesday helped officially push him to the number of delegates - 1,144 - to become the Republican Party's nominee, and even obliquely alluded to Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who was one of his rivals during the nominating contests.
"Thank you, Texas, for taking me over the line and helping me get the nomination," he said. "Your governor has been a great friend. We had a lot of people in the contest. We all came together because we recognize there's something we've got to do as Republicans - come together to defeat Barack Obama and take back America."
Mr. Romney has struggled with Hispanic voters, and his event here was briefly interrupted by protesters chanting "Education, not deportation." But during his visit to Texas, a border state, he also sought to present himself as a champion of Hispanic causes.
"This Obama economy has been hard particularly on Hispanic businesses and Hispanic-Americans, and I don't know if you've seen the numbers recently," Mr. Romney said, before listing a series of statistics about Hispanic voters:
"Did you know that the rate of unemployment among Hispanic-Americans rose last month to 11 percent? And that the people in this country that are poor, living in poverty, one out of three are Hispanic-American? And among young Hispanic-Americans, the poverty rate is 30 percent? And Hispanic-Americans in large measure have looked to entrepreneurs and innovators and small business to get going? But this has been such an anti-anti-small business - hostile to small business - environment that it's been harder for those businesses to open up their doors and to hire more people."
Winding down, Mr. Romney promised: "I can tell you that if I'm the next president of the United States, I'll be the president for all Americans and make sure this economy is good for all Americans, Hispanic and otherwise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (83%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (70%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (65%); DEPORTATION (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



185 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6326 words

HEADLINE: Live Updates of Wisconsin Recall Election

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times is providing live updates and analysis of the Wisconsin recall election. 

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE - Sixteen months after Wisconsin erupted into one of the fiercest political wars in residents' memories, voters began streaming into polling places on Tuesday to decide whether to remove Gov. Scott Walker, the Republican whose decision to cut collective bargaining rights for most public workers set off the fight.
The Times is providing live updates and analysis throughout the evening. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers.
Live Dashboard
 Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeight
11:49 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Gov. Scott Walker held on to his job on Tuesday, becoming the first governor in the country to survive a recall election. 
Before we go, we'd like to leave you with our final voter portrait from the Wisconsin recall. 
Name: Dee Ives
Age: 53
Party: Republican
Supporting: Tom Barrett
Location: Westfield
Occupation: Registered nurse
Concerned About: Protecting Veterans
Be sure to check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
- 
11:41 P.M. | Walker Claims Victory and Calls for Unity
Gov. Scott Walker claimed victory just after 11:30 p.m. Tuesday night, thanking God and his supporters, and saying that it is time to move on with the business of governing.
"Tonight, we tell Wisconsin, we tell our country, and we tell people all around the globe that voters really do want leaders who stand up and make the tough decisions," Mr. Walker said.
Speaking to a raucous crowd of supporters, Mr. Walker said that he would meet with his cabinet on Wednesday to continue working on behalf of the state's economy.
"We'll renew our commitment to help small businesses grow jobs in the state," he said.
And after more than a year of political battle in which his push for limits to collective bargaining rights led to a historic recall effort, Mr. Walker called for people in his state to work together.
"Tomorrow is the day after the election," he said. "And tomorrow, we are no longer opponents. Tomorrow, we are one as Wisconsinites."
- 
11:21 P.M. | Barrett Concedes 
Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, conceded the recall race for governor but said "this is not an end tonight" and said Wisconsin remains a divided state.
"There are more chapters to come," Mr. Barrett said, speaking just after 11 p.m.
"In those chapters, it is my sincere hope that all of us here will remain engaged."
Mr. Barrett spoke briefly to his subdued supporters after calling Mr. Walker to congratulate him, the second time in four years that he had to make that call. Mr. Walker defeated Mr. Barrett two years ago to win the governorship.
"To those of you who care about this city," Mr. Barrett said, "remain engaged, remain involved, because we will continue to fight for justice and fairness in this city and this state."
He added: "Now we must look to the future, and our challenges are real."
- 
10:06 P.M. | Wisconsin Recall Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Wisconsin Recall Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
10:05 P.M. | Walker Survives Recall Vote
Scott Walker, the embattled Republican governor of Wisconsin, survived a recall vote on Tuesday, based on early returns and exit polls, defeating a union-led effort to remove him from office for pushing laws to restrict the collective bargaining rights of state workers.
The state's labor movement had marshaled widespread anger earlier this year to force a recall vote just two years into Mr. Walker's four-year term. Democrats collected close to one million signatures in the petition drive to oust him.
That effort led to the closely-watched rematch between Mr. Walker and the Democratic opponent he beat in 2010, Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee. In the voting Tuesday, Mr. Walker once again bested Mr. Barrett for the state's top job.
The results were a victory for the national Republican Party and conservative groups from around the country, which had rallied behind Mr. Walker with tens of millions of dollars. Mr. Walker will now complete his term.
And they were a blow to the labor movement and Democrats, who had sought to link Mr. Walker to a conservative movement that they said is hostile to workers rights.
But the red-hot frustration among workers that led to the recall appeared to subside over recent months as the race between Mr. Walker and Mr. Barrett became less about unions and more about the general economic mood of the country.
Neither President Obama nor Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, campaigned for their party nominee in Wisconsin in the final weeks, prompting speculation that neither wanted to assume the risks of a loss.
The campaign in Wisconsin, coming just five months before the presidential election, was being watched by both sides as potential evidence of how voters are feeling.
But it's unclear that Mr. Walker's victory will translate into a clear benefit for Mr. Romney in the fall. Wisconsin voters said in early exit polls that they would vote to re-elect Mr. Obama to the White House if the voting were taking place today. 
Mr. Obama also bested Mr. Romney on the question of who would do a better job of improving the economy. And the president did better among the Wisconsin voters on the question of who could do a better job of helping the middle class, according to the survey.
That may reflect a queasiness with recall elections. A large majority of the voters who turned out on Tuesday said recall elections are only appropriate when incumbents are accused of official misconduct.
- 
9:53 P.M. | Exit Polls: Support for Recall 
While turnout has been reported to be high, a majority of voters on Tuesday may not have been entirely supportive of the recall election at all. Nearly 6 in 10 Wisconsin voters said that recall elections were only appropriate for official misconduct, and another 1 in 10 said they were never appropriate, according to early exit poll results. About 3 in 10 voters said recall elections were appropriate for any reason.
Those who support recall elections for any reason overwhelmingly expressed support for Tom Barrett, while those who said recalls were never appropriate backed Gov. Scott Walker. Among those who said official misconduct was appropriate to prompt a recall, about two-thirds supported Mr. Walker, while nearly a third supported Mr. Barrett.
Democrats, younger voters, union households and those with post-graduate degrees were more likely to say that recalls are appropriate for any reason; Republicans, Tea Party supporters and those who approved of Mr. Walker's handling of collective bargaining were more likely to say recalls should only be held for official misconduct.
- 
9:53 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wauwatosa
Name: John McLaughlin
Age: 63
Party: Independent
Supporting: Scott Walker
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: Continuing Walker's agenda
- 
9:38 P.M. | Close Race Could Mean Recount; Absentee Ballots Remain
The extremely close race between Scott Walker and Tom Barrett has raised the prospect that a recount might be requested to determine the winner.
Wisconsin election law does not provide for an automatic recount to be set off by a close race. Instead, it allows either of the candidates to request a recount if they think it could affect the outcome.
If the difference between the two candidates is .5 percent or less, the state would pay for a recount. If the difference is from .5 percent to 2 percent, the candidate requesting must pay $5 per ward to recount the votes. Candidates must pay the entire cost of a recount if the difference is more than 2 percent.
But the question of a recount may be difficult to determine Tuesday night because of the state's rules involving absentee ballots. 
The deadline for returning a filled-out absentee ballot in person was Tuesday. But absentee ballots are also accepted by mail until this Friday as long as they were postmarked by Tuesday.
In an extremely close race, a significant number of mailed-in absentee ballots could affect whether the candidate or the state would have to pay for a recount.
A report by WTAQ, a news radio station in Madison, Wis., on Monday said that at least 206,000 absentee ballots were returned by the time early voting ended last Friday.
A recount in the race would add to the historic nature of the battle in Wisconsin. Mr. Walker is only the third governor to face a recall in the United States.
Both political parties and their allies would likely descend on Wisconsin for the legal battle over counting the ballots. The fight over the recount would be reminiscent of the 2000 recount effort in Florida.
- 
9:22 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Madison
Name: John Rudolph
Age: 47
Party: Democrat
Supporting: Tom Barrett
Occupation: Professor
Concerned About: Political process
- 
9:00 P.M. | Exit Polls Show Extremely Close Race as Voting Ends
The polls have closed in Wisconsin, where early exit poll returns show a very tight race between Scott Walker, the embattled Republican governor, and his Democratic challenger, Tom Barrett.
Labor unions, which had pushed to recall Mr. Walker in the wake of his efforts to curtail collective bargaining rights for state workers, appear to have succeeded in bolstering turnout among union households.
The preliminary exit poll returns showed that about a third of voters said someone in their household belonged to a union. That is higher than in 2010, when Mr. Walker beat Mr. Barrett to win the governor's office.
Democrats were counting on higher turnout, and especially higher turnout among union supporters, to help win the recall and install Mr. Barrett in office.
Republicans from across the country poured money into Mr. Walker's campaign to stop that from happening. But most voters on Tuesday - about 9 out of 10 - told exit pollsters that they had already made up their minds before May 1, when the millions in Republican money fueled a blitz of political television commercials.
A victory by Mr. Barrett would be a surprise. Virtually every poll in recent weeks showed Mr. Walker leading in his bid to stay in office. National Democrats are hoping that a victory in the state would signal that voters are rejecting Mr. Walker's conservative approach to the country's economic problems.
Republicans are betting that a victory by Mr. Walker would be an indication that Mitt Romney could win Wisconsin in the fall. President Obama won the state in 2008, and it has been a reliably Democratic state in presidential elections for several cycles before that.
- 
8:53 P.M. | Recall Results Unlikely to Reveal Much About November
The results of the recall election in Wisconsin on Tuesday night may tell us something about the future of the labor movement and the salience of collective bargaining rights as an issue to swing voters. A win by Gov. Scott Walker, who is ahead in the polls, might make other Republican governors who have sought to pare collective bargaining, like John Kasich of Ohio, breathe a little easier when they come up for election again.
But one thing that the recall is unlikely to do is tell us much about how the presidential contest in Wisconsin is likely to evolve in November. The politics for a governor's campaign are often subject to different currents than presidential ones, and historically the party identification of a state's governor has said little about how presidential candidates will fare there.
Over the past 40 years, in fact, the relationship has run in the reverse direction than you might expect. The Democratic presidential candidate has typically done a little better when the state's governor is a Republican, and vice versa.
Read more
- 
8:22 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wauwatosa
Name: Josh Laquee
Age: 32
Party: Independent
Supporting: Scott Walker
Occupation: Restaurant manager
Concerned About: The economy
- 
8:21 P.M. | No Obama or Romney, but National Parties Are Active
There's been a lot made in recent days about how President Obama declined to come to Wisconsin on behalf of Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee. For that matter, Mitt Romney didn't campaign for Gov. Scott Walker, either.
But their absence doesn't mean that the Republicans and Democrats haven't been active in Wisconsin. The Republicans have funneled more money into the state, but officials from the two parties have been working for months.
Here's a rundown of what the two national parties have been up to in the Badger State.
REPUBLICANS: The party has been active in Wisconsin since January, working with state officials to run the ground operation, which includes 26 offices across the state.
Republican officials say the party operation made more than four million volunteer voter contacts in that time, essentially knocking on doors and making phone calls.
The national party also provided voter data from its databases and ran Mr. Walker's absentee voter program. Republican officials say that by Election Day, more ballots had already been cast in Republican-leaning counties than in Democratic ones.
Mr. Walker's fund-raising prowess, much of it from out-of-state, was helped by the use of the national party's "phone from home" application, which allows supporters to raise money on his behalf from anywhere.
DEMOCRATS: The party, in conjunction with Obama for America, the president's campaign operation, is operating more than 40 offices across Wisconsin, with a total paid staff of 100 people, officials said.
National Democratic officials said the party has supported extensive voter registration efforts during the past six months and is helping to manage "voter protection" efforts to make sure legitimate voters can cast their ballots.
The party has deployed its online resources for Mr. Barrett, providing support for fund-raising. And staff members for the Democratic National Committee helped organize rallies and knocked on doors, officials said.
- 
7:52 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Spent
FORT ATKINSON, Wis. - Some voters across the state are seeing dollar signs as they step into the ballot box on Tuesday. Not just because of estimates that campaigns and outside groups have spent more than $60 million on the recall fight between Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, and Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, a Democrat. There's also as much as $18 million it was expected to cost counties, municipalities and the state.
"It's a waste," said Dale Huffstutler, 65, an accountant here who planned to back Mr. Walker on Tuesday.
"I think it was about retaliation," Mr. Huffstutler said on Monday. "No one is really dealing with the issues. They're not doing what's best for the state. They're doing what best for themselves."
Farther south, in Janesville, Pam Fischer, 45, supported Mr. Barrett on Tuesday because she said Mr. Walker, for whom she voted in 2010, "pulled the rug out from under" public employees and school districts. Ms. Fischer, an adult education instructor at Blackhawk Technical College, said that the money Wisconsin has spent on the recall election was unfortunate, but a necessary expense.
"In the grand scheme of things, we're setting a national precedent," she said. "All eyes are on us. If the rights of our students and the rights of our middle class are maintained, then it will all be worth it."
Others have raised concerns about big spending from candidates and outside groups, which nearly doubled what it was when Mr. Barrett and Mr. Walker faced off in 2010.
Mr. Barrett has raised about $4 million in contributions. A law that allowed Mr. Walker to raise unlimited amounts before the recall election was officially announced, which did not happen until late March, helped him take in more than $30 million.
"It's staggering how much the rest of the country is interested in this election," said Dave Jacobs, 56, a supporter of Mr. Barrett from Whitewater.
Mr. Jacobs, a state employee who plows roads in Walworth County, said he has felt the effects of Mr. Walker's changes to public employee bargaining rights last year, which ultimately led to the recall election on Tuesday.
Even so, he and many voters across the state, including those who support Mr. Barrett, said Wisconsin needs to rethink its recall law, admitting that the effort to oust Mr. Walker (and all that it has cost) is not a sustainable approach to dealing with political problems.
"This is the beginning of recall-itis," Mr. Jacobs said. "We can't keep doing this forever. As long as the tool is there, we're going to use it."
- 
7:41 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Adams
Name: Clifford Pursell
Age: 74
Party: Democrat
Supporting: Tom Barrett
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: Union Busting
- 
7:28 P.M. | Areas to Watch: Waukesha and Milwaukee
Watch for results from two areas on Tuesday night: Waukesha and Milwaukee.
Waukesha, the suburban area to the west of Milwaukee, is a Republican stronghold and could be crucial to a victory by Gov. Scott Walker. Mr. Walker, a Republican, will also do well in the rural parts of the state.
Milwaukee is voter gold for Democrats, and Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee must win by a big margin there to have any hope of defeating Mr. Walker. But the margin isn't the only key. There has to be a big turnout in Milwaukee, and a big margin for Mr. Barrett, for the Democrats to win.
- 
7:16 P.M. | Voters' Voices: The Deep Divide
JANESVILLE, Wis. - For many Wisconsin voters, the polarization caused by the recall election against Gov. Scott Walker is palpable. Stories abound about family members and friends turning into political foes. Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who is running to replace Mr. Walker, has called it Wisconsin's "civil war."
"It will be nice when it's settled," said Pat Muller, 71, who was one of about 20 residents waiting in front of the Rotary Botanical Gardens here for voting to start early Tuesday morning. "I wish everybody could get along."
Some neighbors in the line whispered passionately about the candidate for whom they would vote, stepping away from the crowd so as not to be heard by those around.
Mary Weber, 53, a fifth-grade schoolteacher in Janesville who backed Mr. Barrett, said the vote would be a defining moment in the state's history. She said that given some time, Wisconsin might be able to move on. "We'll be a stronger state because of this," she said.
But interviews with voters across the state in recent days, including those who supported Mr. Barrett, suggest that few expect a swift return to the civil political climate that they once knew, regardless of who wins.
"I don't know what kind of leader it will take to heal the state right now," said Joyce Kupres, 58, as she ate dinner at a sidewalk cafe in Whitewater on Monday.
"We're trying to stop the flow of bleeding and repair the wounds of the past," said Jim Roberts, 54, a retired firefighter from the Madison area who was protesting in front of the Capitol on Tuesday. "It's such a bitter and deep divide."
But that bitterness, he said, "won't be forgotten for a long time."
- 
7:13 P.M. | Millions Spent on Wisconsin Recall Election
Democratic and labor groups have been major players in the race, but Gov. Scott Walker has spent the most money, partly as a result of a state law that exempted him from contribution limits until the recall election was formally announced in March.
- 
7:03 P.M. | Exit Polls: Opposition to Tea Party and Government
Voters in Tuesday's recall election are somewhat more opposed to the Tea Party movement than voters in 2010 were, but most nonetheless say, as in 2010, that government "is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals."
Nearly 4 in 10 voters in preliminary exit polls say they support the Tea Party movement, about as many oppose it, and a quarter are neutral. While support for the political movement has held steady from two years ago, opposition is up somewhat from 2010, according to these results.
But voters' antipathy toward increased government involvement in 2010 is echoed in Tuesday's results. Two years ago, 41 percent said government "should do more to solve problems," while 56 percent said it was doing too many things better left to others. Voters on Tuesday felt similarly.
- 
6:54 P.M. | New Census Report Shows Who Votes in Wisconsin
A report released Tuesday by the U.S. Census Bureau provided some insight into what types of people tend to vote (or not) in U.S. elections.
As it happens, the data also offered an interesting look at several general election voter-turnout trends in Wisconsin that might have played out, to some extent, in Tuesday's recall election.
As with voters nationwide, Wisconsin's voters trend older: in 2010, during the state's last gubernatorial contest, just 24 percent of voters between the ages of 18 and 24 turned out, compared with 72 percent of voters 65 and older. 
Just as women are more likely to vote nationwide, they are also more likely than men to vote in Wisconsin. And just as we see nationally, the most-educated Wisconsinites have a higher rate of participation. 
Race has not been a predictor of voter turnout in Wisconsin, though it tends to be for the United States population at large. In 2010, voting rates for white, black and Hispanic voters in Wisconsin were, statistically, about the same. 
Overall, Wisconsinites are much more likely to vote than the average American. In 2008, more than 71 percent of registered voters in Wisconsin cast their ballots, a percentage bested that November by only Minnesota and the District of Columbia. 
Turnout for Wisconsin's recall election likely won't rival that of a presidential race, but Wisconsin voters can be counted on to show up at the polls in force. Before Tuesday's vote, the state's Government Accountability Board predicted turnout at 60 percent to 65 percent. 
There's reason to be confident in that estimate. Two years ago, when the same gubernatorial candidates faced each other at the top of the ticket, the board made a similar prediction that came incredibly close: after projecting that 2.18 million Wisconsinites would vote, or about 50 percent of registered voters, more than 2.16 million ultimately showed up.
- 
6:51 P.M. | Exit Polls: Did Money Talk?
The millions of dollars spent in recent weeks by both political parties for advertising, campaign signs and get-out-the-vote efforts may not actually have changed anyone's mind about whom to vote for in Tuesday's recall election.
According to early results from surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday, nearly 9 out of 10 Wisconsin voters said their minds were made up about whom to vote for before May 1. Whether all that money results in larger turnout for either of the candidates remains to be seen until vote counts are in after the polls close.
Most Wisconsin voters indicated that they were satisfied with their respective candidates on Tuesday. Nearly three-quarters of voters said their vote on Tuesday was cast mainly for their candidate. About a quarter said their vote was mainly against their candidate's opponent.
But the extra campaign in the middle of an election year has done little to sway anyone's thoughts about the two political parties. Half of voters said they had an unfavorable view of the Democratic Party, and half said the same about the Republican Party - sentiments that are relatively unchanged from two years ago, according to the 2010 exit poll results.
- 
6:47 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wauwatosa
Name: Kate Rice
Age: 33
Party: Republican
Supporting: Scott Walker
Occupation: Mother
Concerned About: Budget
- 
6:38 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Washburn County
MINONG, Wis. - Dick Danielson, 60, bartender and owner of Big Dick's Buckhorn Inn in Spooner, Wis., which is known for its mountings of deer, moose and bear heads (and the fact that John F. Kennedy used the restroom), is as good a judge of voter sentiment as you can find around here. Mr. Danielson, with a gray ponytail and a Hawaiian shirt, said voters in Washburn County, in the northwestern part of the state, were "pretty well split."
Mr. Danielson, who calls himself a "social liberal but economic conservative," said that in previous elections, he has voted for President Obama and for Gov. Scott Walker.
With 15,900 residents, Washburn County has plenty of bars, churches and laundromats, but not a single Starbucks.
When Mr. Danielson voted Tuesday morning, the line was 10 deep, the biggest turnout he's seen, he said.
In nearby Minong, population 532, Wendy Holman of Wendy's Place was buying five cabbages - "It's coleslaw day" - and four bags of mini-marshmallows. "That's for two pans of crispy bars."
"I don't understand a lot of politics," she said at the checkout stand at Henson's Country Food, where there is a stuffed albino deer behind glass. "But Walker is hurting my children and grandchildren." 
At the hardware store in Spooner, Jeremy Siem, 31, who works in construction, said: "This is the first week I'm back at work after three months. The last thing I want to see is more money go out of my pocket when I have less going in." After doing research online, he said, he voted against the recall.
Then, there are those who didn't vote. Jodi Gregoire, 41, eating a Dairy Queen Oreo cheesecake blizzard, said, "The recall is ridiculous. It's a waste of taxpayer's money."
Whatever the outcome, Mr. Danielson said, "The world will go on, whoever wins."
- 
6:22 p.m. | Voters' Voices: Where It Started
MADISON, Wis. - This city is holding its breath. 
It was here early last year that tens of thousands of protesters flooded the square around the Capitol to express their outrage over Gov. Scott Walker's changes to collective bargaining rights for most state employees. Now, with voters across Wisconsin going to the polls on Tuesday to decide if Mr. Walker will keep his job, many residents of Madison, a Democrat stronghold, said all they could do was wait for the results - and pester as many people as possible to vote. 
Tasha McShan, 31, a hair stylist in Madison, said before 10 a.m., she had already been stopped by three strangers asking her if she had cast her ballot yet. 
"I going to put my sticker on, so people stop bothering me," Ms. McShan said as she walked out from under the red awning of a local senior center where she voted for Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee. 
She remembers watching the huge demonstrations last year from her downtown fourth-floor apartment, how they kept her infant son awake in the middle of the night, and said she predicted that protesters might return if Mr. Walker stays in office. 
"If he wins, there's going to be a lot more," she said. 
Up the street, on the lawn of the Capitol, a couple of hundred people gathered for an Election Day "Solidarity Singalong," a musical protest gathering with anti-Walker renditions of songs like "This Land Is Your Land." 
The group played a hodgepodge of instruments - horns, guitars, drums, an accordion, a banjo - and has gathered every weekday since March 2011. Tuesday, their 383rd day, was more lively than most, some said. 
"It's celebratory and nerve-wracking," said Chris Reeder, 41, one of the organizers, about the mood of the city. "We're excited about what could happen, and we're terrified about what could happen. We're coming together, standing together in our terror and our hope and holding each other close." 
Many in the audience have walked door-to-door canvassing against Mr. Walker in recent weeks and had been on the front lines of a recall petition effort this year that netted more than 900,000 signatures - almost double the amount needed to hold the election. 
The protesters plan to gather again Tuesday night at 8 p.m. Central, when polls close, for more singing and a vigil, before attending local result-watching parties in the city. 
At one point on Tuesday afternoon, some of them boarded a painted school bus that did "victory laps" around the Capitol, despite some public polls that show Mr. Walker ahead of Mr. Barrett (the lead has generally been within the margin of error for each poll). 
Many here dispute those numbers, saying they expect news of an upset late Tuesday night. Other Barrett supporters have said that, win or lose, the recall sends a clear message to politicians nationwide. 
But for some, that's not good enough. 
"I think it is a statement," said Matt Jensen, 38, a neurologist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who voted to remove Mr. Walker but was not at the afternoon protest. "I'd like to get things done instead of just making loud statements."
- 
6:21 P.M. | Exit Polls: Labor Turnout Up Early
Preliminary exit poll results indicate an uptick in turnout among voters from union households - something Democrats were hoping for in their effort to oust Gov. Scott Walker on Tuesday.
But whether that holds as voters continue to head to the polls, and whether it is enough to give Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee the edge, are open questions at this point.
About a third of voters in preliminary exit poll results say they or someone in their household belong to a labor union. That is an increase from 2010 and 2008, when 26 percent of voters in each of those elections were from a union household.
High union turnout is crucial for the Democrats. In 2010, 63 percent of voters in union households supported Mr. Barrett, compared with 37 percent for Mr. Walker. 
On the issue that has the unions fired up - the changes in state law that limited collective bargaining rights for most of the state's public workers - voters are closely divided, with about as many approving of it as disapproving. Voters in Tuesday's recall election are also closely split in their views of how Mr. Walker handled the issue.
Voters, however, are somewhat more apt to express a favorable opinion of unions for government workers than an unfavorable one.
- 
6:09 P.M. | Your Questions on the Recall Answered
Earlier on Tuesday, Monica Davey and Jeff Zeleny answered questions from Times readers about the Wisconsin recall. Read More
- 
6:12 P.M. | Exit Polls: Voters Would Re-elect Obama
Wisconsin voters who turned out for the recall election on Tuesday said they would vote to re-elect President Obama to the White House if the voting were taking place today, according to early exit poll results.
Mr. Obama also bested his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, on the question of who would do a better job of improving the economy.
And Mr. Obama did better among the Wisconsin voters on the question of who would do a better job of helping the middle class, according to the survey.
The early exit poll results suggest that the electorate that turned out on Tuesday may be more like the one that showed up in 2008, when Mr. Obama won the state over Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
But the fact that Wisconsin voters tilted toward Mr. Obama does not necessarily mean that Tom Barrett will emerge victorious. Polling in recent weeks has shown Gov. Scott Walker leading even as voters said they preferred keeping Mr. Obama in office.
That may reflect a queasiness with recall elections. A large majority of the voters who turned out on Tuesday said recall elections are only appropriate when incumbents are accused of official misconduct.
- 
6:06 P.M. | Exit Polls: Few Voters Say Finances Have Improved
As voters exited the polls in Wisconsin on Tuesday, only about 2 in 10 said their family's financial situation had improved since two years ago, when Gov. Scott Walker was elected.
Nearly 4 in 10 said their situation had grown worse, and more than 4 in 10 said their finances had stayed the same.
While Wisconsin's unemployment level is lower than the national rate and median income is slightly above the national level, the Badger State has experienced its share of recession woes.
In April, one out of every 547 housing units was in foreclosure in Wisconsin, giving it the 10th highest foreclosure rate in the country, according to RealtyTrac, a company that tracks foreclosures. The state ranked 18th in personal bankruptcies in 2011, according to data from the American Bankruptcy Institute.
Nearly 3 in 10 younger voters said that they were better off, compared with about one in eight voters over the age of 45. Not surprisingly, more high-income voters were positive about their finances: about 3 in 10 voters making more than $100,000 said their situations had improved, compared with about one in 10 among those making less than $50,000.
- 
6:02 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wauwatosa
Name: Lucien P. Woodring
Age: 32
Party: Democrat
Supporting: Tom Barrett
Occupation: Father
Concerned About: Workers' rights
- 
5:51 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Avoidance 
Steven Yaccino has been traveling around the state talking to voters.
FORT ATKINSON, Wis. - Wisconsin is consumed with reminders of the recall election. Television and radio have been deluged with advertisements. Banners hang from street lamps in small towns, encouraging residents to vote. Campaign signs litter yards. Even the farm equipment on rural roads is decorated with the names of candidates.
Yet as political commentary and the last push from campaigns flood the state in the final days of an already accelerated race, there were some residents who managed, whether intentionally or not, to avoid it altogether.
They were few, but they exist.
"I'm going to sit on my couch and pretend it's not happening," said Kevin Fleck, 21, about his plans on Tuesday. Standing outside a grocery store where he works here, Mr. Fleck said his friends had been trying to persuade him to vote for weeks, but he has refused because he doesn't like either candidate.
"It really doesn't matter," he said of politicians. "They're all the same."
In the parking lot nearby, Pat Dillin, 75, said she had not followed the recall much, either. "I don't like it," she said. "It's dirty politics."
Election officials expected a high turnout at the polls on Tuesday - about 60 percent to 65 percent of registered voters. Early Tuesday morning, lines were reported outside voting sites across the state. According to a recent poll by Marquette University Law School taken in late May, only 3 percent of 600 likely voters were unable to give an opinion about Gov. Scott Walker, compared to 11 percent who could not do the same about his opponent, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee.
Yet Chris Trent, 26, who moved to Whitewater five months ago, said he was not even aware that there was a recall election going on, let alone who the candidates were or why it was happening. "I have no idea what's going on," he said. "I really don't follow politics."
In Milton, about 15 miles away, Hayley Willard, 19, said she had heard plenty of people talking about the recall, but has not paid much attention. "People are going to live however they want to live no matter who is in charge," she said.
- 
5:57 P.M. | Exit Polls: Voters Split Over Walker's Jobs Record
Wisconsin recall voters are divided over whether Mr. Walker has done a good job of growing the state's economy, according to preliminary exit poll results released Tuesday evening.
About half said they approved of how he has handled creating jobs in the state, and about half said they disapproved. 
There has been some debate in the last week concerning Mr. Walker's early release of state jobs data before the election, which would not have been made public by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics until later in June, after the election. 
According to the bureau's data, Wisconsin's unemployment rate was 6.7 percent for April 2012, well below the 8.2 percent unemployment rate nationwide. And the state's unemployment is down from its 7.6 percent unemployment rate in November 2010, when Mr. Walker was elected.
- 
5:51 P.M. | Turnout Is Expected to Be Critical
Every election, you hear the same thing: it's all about turnout. That might actually be true in Wisconsin on Tuesday night.
Those on the ground in the Badger State are predicting that turnout will be around 2.5 million voters.
That would be higher than the 2.1 million who turned out in 2010, when Scott Walker, a Republican, won the governorship. But fewer than the 2.9 million who showed up in 2008, when President Obama won the state.
The question is whether actual turnout is closer to the 2.1 million or the 2.9 million. The logic appears to be that a smaller turnout benefits Mr. Walker, while a surge of voters helps Tom Barrett, his Democratic challenger.
Why? If the turnout is big, that suggests that unions have managed to motivate their supporters to turn out at the polls. Those would likely be Barrett supporters.
But such calculations are a guess, at best. Republicans say their turnout efforts are better than ever, so a big turnout might be somewhat deceiving.
- 
5:39 P.M. | Voters Turn Out for Recall Vote
MILWAUKEE - Sixteen months after Wisconsin erupted into one of the fiercest political wars in residents' memories, voters began streaming into polling places on Tuesday to decide whether to remove Gov. Scott Walker, the Republican whose decision to cut collective bargaining rights for most public workers set off the fight.
Mr. Walker, who cast his own vote at a school in this city's suburbs not long after the polls opened, is only the third governor in the nation's history to face a recall election. Under Wisconsin's provisions for recall - never before tested when it comes to a governor - Mr. Walker finds himself competing for his job against Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, the Democratic challenger.
While the outcome will decide Mr. Walker's immediate political future, it will also be looked to as a sign about how this state will approach fiscal and other policies in the months ahead, how comfortable other states' leaders will feel challenging collective bargaining rights and unions, and about President Obama's chances come November in a state that he won four years ago.
In many cities, lines were reported at polling places, even before they opened at 7 a.m. In Janesville, not far from the Illinois border, about 20 residents waited among a landscape of ferns and flowers in front of the Rotary Botanical Gardens.
"It's going to be a big one today," said Lois Altmann, 83, a volunteer poll worker, as she taped maps of the county on walls inside the garden's visitor center where voting booths were being erected. "Soon we can stop hearing about this."
Read more
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); NURSES & NURSING (52%) Elections

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



186 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Suggests Extending Tax Cuts Temporarily

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Bill Clinton again makes remarks that seem at odds with President Obama's message. 

 BODY:
 Former President Bill Clinton, voicing a new "antiausterity" line opposed by both parties, suggested Tuesday that all expiring tax cuts be extended temporarily and that short-term budget cutting be put off until the country emerges from what he called a recession.
 Speaking on CNBC's "Closing Bell," Mr. Clinton said Washington should do nothing that would slow economic growth.
"What I think we need to do is find some way to avoid the fiscal cliff to avoid doing anything that would contract the economy now, and then deal with what's necessary in the long-term debt-reduction plans as soon as they can, which presumably would be after the election," Mr. Clinton said.
President Obama and Congressional Democrats have firmly opposed extending the Bush-era tax cuts for upper-income families after their Jan. 1 expiration date. House Republican leaders plan a vote this summer to extend all the tax cuts, and they quickly latched on to the former president's comments.
But Mr. Clinton appeared to be voicing a position that neither party has embraced: stop the short-term spending cuts and extend the tax cuts, but only temporarily. 
"They will probably have to put everything off until early next year," he said of Washington policymakers. "That's probably the best thing to do right now. But the Republicans don't want to do that unless he agrees to extend the tax cuts permanently, including for upper-income people, and I don't think the president should do that."
He blamed the economic struggles in the United States on the darkening economic environment in Europe. But in a jab at Republicans, Mr. Clinton also said, "the thing that cost jobs here has been the Congress's policies."
Mr. Clinton's comments come as he has played a much more visible role in national politics in recent days, appearing at an Obama fund-raiser on Monday and campaigning last week in the Wisconsin recall fight. On Tuesday came word that the Romney campaign had even created a fake Twitter accountnoting, for instance, Mr. Clinton's recent comments about Mr. Romney's "sterling" business career.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); FUNDRAISING (61%) Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Federal Taxes (US); Presidential Election of 2012; Taxation; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Twitter; Wisconsin; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party; Twitter

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



187 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Aides in Talks With Justice Dept. on Gun-Running Inquiry

BYLINE: CHARLIE SAVAGE


HIGHLIGHT: There are competing Republican efforts to resolve a dispute over subpoenaed information related to Operation Fast and Furious. 

 BODY:
11:39 p.m. | Updated As Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. prepares to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday, Justice Department officials praised the House Republican leadership - including Speaker John Boehner - for opening negotiations with the Justice Department about resolving a dispute over subpoenaed information related to the botched gun-trafficking investigation dubbed Operation Fast and Furious.
The move comes as Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, has threatened to hold Mr. Holder in contempt over the subpoena, which he issued last fall. It suggests that administration officials see a potential conflict between Mr. Issa and Mr. Boehner over pushing forward with a contempt citation.
Deputy Attorney General James Cole said in a letter on Tuesday to Mr. Boehner and other House Republican leaders that their staffs in recent weeks "have had a number of constructive conversations" that held out the prospect of a "mutually acceptable resolution of these issues." He said those conversations "stand in contrast" with the tone Mr. Issa had adopted, including in a letter of his own on Tuesday.
But in a statement later on Tuesday, Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, portrayed a united front with Mr. Issa against the department over Fast and Furious.
"Staff for the speaker, other leadership offices, and Chairman Issa have been encouraging Attorney General Holder's staff to comply for weeks or months to no avail, but there have certainly been no direct talks between the speaker and attorney general, and the department is still stonewalling," Mr. Steel said.
Mr. Boehner - along with the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, and the Republican whip, Kevin McCarthy - stepped into the conflict on May 18, sending a letter to Mr. Holder that demanded more answers but also narrowed the request to two topics: who, if anyone, on his leadership team knew about the tactics being used in Fast and Furious and whether senior Justice Department officials had misled Congress in response to a subpoena.
Mr. Issa also signed that letter. But in prepared testimony Mr. Holder sent to Congress on Tuesday ahead of his Thursday appearance, he confirmed that the Justice Department is now talking with Mr. Boehner's staff in an effort to settle the subpoena dispute.
"We welcome the recent engagement of Congressional leadership in the Department's continued efforts to satisfy the legitimate goals of Congressional oversight while, at the same time, preserving the integrity and independence of the Department's ongoing criminal investigations and prosecutions," Mr. Holder's prepared testimony states.
He adds: "Leadership's recent letter represented a promising step toward reaching a resolution, as it accomplished two things: first, it narrowed the universe of documents still in dispute between the Justice Department and the House Oversight Committee; second, it identified the specific questions that remain of concern to Leadership. We are confident that the constructive discussions that have occurred since this letter will result in a mutually acceptable resolution."
Meanwhile on Tuesday, Mr. Issa announced in another letter -- signed by him alone -- that he had obtained copies of applications for wiretaps that the Justice Department has been refusing to disclose. The documents, he asserted, show that administration officials knew more about disputed tactics than they have maintained.
"Even a perfunctory review of the wiretap applications amply demonstrates the immense detail documenting gun-walking tactics that should have prompted senior officials in the Criminal Division to shut down the program immediately," Mr. Issa wrote in the letter to Mr. Holder, which his office made public.
But Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on Mr. Issa's House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said in a letter to Mr. Issa that his counterpart had mischaracterized the contents and significance of the documents, including by omitting critical facts "that completely undermines your conclusions and distorts your representations."
Tracy Schmaler, a Justice Department spokeswoman, also said that Mr. Issa's claim "continues to distort the facts," reiterating that senior officials "were not aware of the flawed tactics in Fast and Furious until they became public in early 2011." But she said the department could not comment on the contents of court-sealed applications related to an continuing criminal case, expressing concern that they had been illegally leaked.
Fast and Furious was an investigation by Arizona-based agents of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives into a suspected gun-trafficking network linked to a Mexican drug cartel. Agents used a tactic called "gun-walking" - failing to swiftly interdict guns purchased by low-level figures in an effort to build a bigger case - and lost track of some 2,000 firearms, including two later found near a shootout in December 2010 during which an American border patrol agent, Brian Terry, was killed.
It has since emerged that Arizona-based A.T.F. agents had used similar investigative tactics in several other gun-trafficking cases dating back to the Bush administration, though Fast and Furious involved far more weapons.
Mr. Issa has been investigating Fast and Furious for more than a year, and has frequently accused senior Obama administration officials of initiating or authorizing the tactics. They, however, maintain that they did not know about the operation's tactics until early 2011.
Against that backdrop, the Fast and Furious wiretap applications have been a focus because they were reviewed by senior officials in the Justice Department's criminal division from March to July of 2010. Mr. Issa did not release the text of the wiretap applications, but wrote that at the same time they were signing off on the applications, senior Justice Department officials had "received information" about the contours and activities of the network, and that agents had sometimes broken off surveillance of suspects who had just purchased weapons.
Mr. Issa has sometimes made exaggerated claims about Fast and Furious, admitting earlier this year at a hearing that "there have been times in which we did not get the information right." In his own letter to Mr. Issa, Mr. Cummings - who has also seen the applications - accused him of doing so again.
Parts of Mr. Cummings's letter, laying out what he portrayed as key omissions in Mr. Issa's account of the sealed documents, were redacted. But he wrote that the investigation had already learned that senior department attorneys reviewed only the summaries of applications to make sure that they met the legal standard for a wiretap before submitting them to a judge - not the underlying affidavits and other details of a case.

        
White House Threatens Veto of Boehner Bill
        
Facts Sought on D.E.A. Informants
        
Arguing, Again, Over Terrorism Trials
        
Boehner Cites Support of Economists in Debt Limit Fight
        
Obama Sets Up Team on Oil-Price Fraud

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); SUBPOENAS (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (78%); WIRETAPPING (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); GUN CONTROL (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%) 'Operation Fast and Furious'; Darrell Issa; Eric H. Holder Jr.; Rep. John Boehner; Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Cole, James M; Cummings, Elijah; Issa, Darrell E; Gun Control; United States Politics and Government; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; Justice Department; Arizona; California; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (84%) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; Justice Department

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (94%); ERIC HOLDER (91%); DARRELL E ISSA (91%); ERIC CANTOR (90%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (73%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Cole, James M; Cummings, Elijah; Issa, Darrell E

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arizona; California

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



188 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Audits for 3 Georgia Schools Tied to Turkish Movement

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
A group of three publicly financed charter schools in Georgia run by followers of Fethullah Gulen, a prominent Turkish imam, have come under scrutiny after they defaulted on bonds and an audit found that the schools improperly granted hundreds of thousands of dollars in contracts to businesses and groups, many of them with ties to the Gulen movement.
The audit released Tuesday by the Fulton County Schools near Atlanta found the schools made purchases like T-shirts, teacher training and video production services from organizations with connections to school officials or Gulen followers. Those included more than $500,000 in contracts since January 2010 with the Grace Institute, a foundation whose board has included school leaders. In some cases the awards skirted bidding requirements, the audit said. 
''I would just question how those vendors were selected when price in many instances wasn't part of the decision making,'' said the Fulton County superintendent, Robert Avossa, who criticized the schools for conflicts of interest. ''And those are public dollars.''
Gulen followers run more than 120 charter schools nationwide, making the loosely affiliated network one of the nation's largest public charter school operators. Despite clear connections, the schools generally deny any affiliation with the Gulen movement, a powerful religious and political force in Turkey whose leader, Mr. Gulen, views establishing schools as part of his mission. While some of the charter schools have been praised for their academic performance, their business practices have raised questions.
The New York Times reported last year that the group's 36 Texas schools had granted millions of dollars in construction and renovation contracts to firms run by Turkish-Americans with ties to the movement, in some cases bypassing lower bids from firms with no connections to the movement. The Texas schools also awarded deals for cafeteria food, after-school programs and teacher training to organizations affiliated with Gulen followers.
The Georgia audit, posted to the Fulton County Schools Web site Tuesday evening, focused on the Fulton Science Academy Middle School in Alpharetta, Ga., a 500-student school that was recently denied a renewal of its public charter. The school, which had received $32 million in public funds over the past 10 years, said it would operate as a private school. While the audit does not lay out all of the relationships between contractors and the movement, a chart shows connections between the people running the schools, some of the vendors and Gulen-connected groups.
Dr. Avossa said that the audit's findings had raised concerns about the group's two other public charter schools in his district: Fulton Science Academy High School and Fulton Sunshine Academy, an elementary school.
He said a full audit would be conducted of those schools ''to gauge whether similar wrongdoing is taking place.''
The three schools have enrolled 1,200 students representing a cross section of students in the Fulton County district.
Wells Fargo Bank, trustee of a $19 million bond issue by the schools, told investors on May 15 that the three schools were in default on those bonds. The bank said the default was caused by the group's failure to disclose in its bond offering last year that its middle school charter renewal might have been in jeopardy. ''The failure to disclose the ongoing concerns with Fulton Science Academy's charter renewal petition constituted an omission of material facts in the public statement,'' Wells Fargo said.
A default gives the bondholders the right to demand immediate payment, possibly requiring a liquidation of some school assets. The bonds are trading at about 70 percent of face value.
Concerns about governance and transparency were partly behind the district's rejection of the Fulton Science Academy Middle School's demand for a 10-year charter renewal. The school was named a ''blue-ribbon'' school last year by the federal government for its performance and appealed unsuccessfully to the state.
Kenan Sener, the school's principal, said that the audit contained significant inaccuracies and that the school would issue a statement on Wednesday, after fully reviewing the document.
Nationwide, the charter schools have pursued an aggressive expansion plan, much of it financed by public bond issues, with the Texas schools borrowing more than $200 million through bond offerings.
In Texas, the group's spending has been the focus of investigations by the State Legislature and the Texas Education Agency. The federal Department of Education is also investigating the Texas schools, apparently focusing on allegations of discrimination against Hispanic special education students in enrollment. The schools have denied wrongdoing.
One criticism of the schools involves their reliance on teachers imported from Turkey while teacher unemployment in the United States remains high. The audit said the Fulton Science Academy Middle School had paid $75,000 in immigration-related expenses for such employees.
Although the schools are inspired by Mr. Gulen and teach Turkish language and culture, they do not teach religion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Schools affiliated with followers of the Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen have received increasing scrutiny in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); AUDITS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



189 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Amid Calls for Action, A Tighter Banking Bond Is Proposed in Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JAMES KANTER; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and James Kanter from Brussels. Reporting was contributed by David Jolly from Paris, Nicholas Kulish from Berlin, Annie Lowery from Washington and Hiroko Tabuchi from Tokyo.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Under growing international and financial market pressure to fix the region's bank problems, European officials took a step on Tuesday toward surrendering a cherished national prerogative by proposing to knit banking systems together more closely.
If endorsed by European leaders, the plan by the European Commission could spread the cost of bank rescues and demonstrate that governments are willing to cede power to the strong, centralized institutions that many economists say are needed to stabilize the currency union.
Pressure for bold action by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and other euro zone leaders escalated Tuesday after a conference call of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 7 nations, which include Germany, Japan and the United States.
While participants said little about the conversation afterward, it is likely that European leaders were urged to move more forcefully to quell a banking crisis in Spain and to keep Greece from leaving the euro zone. 
''There's no question that markets remain skeptical that the measures taken thus far are sufficient to secure the recovery in Europe and remove the risk that the crisis will deepen,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said on Monday.
The European Commission's proposal for banks aims to avoid future situations like the one in Spain, where the ills of one institution, Bankia, threaten to destroy what little credibility the government has left with financial markets.
But the plan will not do much to help the banks in Spain and Portugal that require immediate assistance. The proposals would require formal approval from European governments and the European Parliament, and one of the most important measures would not be expected to go into force until 2018.
In that sense, the move is yet another example of the bloc's inability to keep up with the fast-moving pressures created by the crisis that began in Greece and is now threatening Spain.
Doubts about Spain deepened Tuesday after the treasury minister, Cristobal Montoro, suggested that the government's borrowing costs were rising to levels that might eventually cut the country off from debt markets.
''The risk premium says Spain doesn't have the market door open,'' Mr. Montoro told Onda Cero radio, Reuters reported. ''The risk premium says that as a state we have a problem in accessing markets, when we need to refinance our debt.''
The risk premium describes the extra interest rate that investors demand to hold Spanish debt, compared with German debt, which is considered the safest in the euro zone. Spain's 10-year bonds now yield about 6.3 percent, compared with Germany's 1.2 percent; thus, the risk premium stands at about 5.1 percentage points.
Mr. Montoro said Spain needed help from European institutions to recapitalize, though he did not give an indication of how much money was required. Spain is planning a bond auction on Thursday that could help decide whether the country must seek a full bailout package.
Endorsing the plan for a more integrated banking system would show that European leaders were willing to endow centralized institutions with powers that in the past were closely guarded by national governments.
The proposals ''form one of the cornerstones of a future banking union for Europe,'' Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for the internal market, said during an interview on Tuesday, a day ahead of the formal announcement.
The detailed proposal for steps toward a so-called banking union comes a day after Germany indicated it might provide greater support for its most indebted euro zone partners in exchange for more centralized control over government spending in Europe.
''The world wants to know how we expect the political union to complement the currency union,'' Chancellor Merkel said Monday.
Ms. Merkel has made similar statements in the past, but they take on added weight in the current crisis. While the German economy has been impervious to the problems so far, the country conducts most of its trade with other European countries and cannot remain aloof forever, economists say.
''They'll start to give way,'' said Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland. ''They realize they can't let the Spanish go and the whole euro zone crumble into pieces.''
But while European leaders have demonstrated good intentions in recent days, they still face electorates skeptical about a more powerful European government, as well as the built-in inertia that comes from having to find consensus among 17 nations that use the euro.
''I wouldn't be expecting in the next weeks or months total capitulation'' by Germany, Mr. Barwell said.
Mr. Barnier said his proposals on banking were expected to be acceptable to Germany and to most other member states because he had reviewed the contents with ministers and diplomats over recent weeks.
The main point of his proposals, Mr. Barnier said, is to shield taxpayers from the kinds of bills they have faced after a string of bank collapses in recent years in Britain, Belgium and Ireland.
''Prevention is far less expensive than cure in the case of banks,'' Mr. Barnier said. ''But even if there are failures in the future, taxpayers shouldn't have to foot the bill.''
Mr. Barnier's proposals would require countries that have not yet done so to set up so-called resolution funds, with the money possibly shared by countries. The law would also require national authorities to intervene in troubled banks by firing management or forcing sales.
The plans also require some private investors in failing banks to bear the costs previously borne by governments and ultimately taxpayers.
That measure would take effect on Jan. 1, 2018, to ease concerns in the financial community that the measures would hamper lenders' ability to raise new capital during a period in which many banks were already facing difficult business conditions.
''We are taking away the implicit state guarantees for banks, so that is adding to the need for a transitional period,'' Mr. Barnier said. ''It's important to wait until 2018 as we wanted to avoid mixing this up with the current problems.''
Most of the other rules are supposed to go into force in 2015.
Pressure on Europe is also coming from the administration of President Obama, which is concerned about the effects of the euro zone crisis on the United States economy. American officials have pressed European ministers to act quickly and forcefully to prevent financial contagion from Spain and Greece.
Japan, too, has its concerns about Europe. Its finance minister, Jun Azumi, said in Tokyo on Tuesday that he had agreed with his Group of 7 counterparts to cooperate in addressing the European crisis. He said he had also voiced concern about the crisis's influence on the yen's volatility.
''The Europeans gave us powerful assurances that they will move swiftly'' to address the crisis, Mr. Azumi said.
European leaders are also under pressure from the European Central Bank, which meets on Wednesday amid speculation that it could cut interest rates or take other steps to calm market fears. But Mario Draghi, the central bank's president, may hold off on any moves until he sees concrete evidence that European leaders are willing to take more political risks to fight the crisis.
Jorg Asmussen, a member of the executive board of the central bank, on Tuesday delivered what amounted to a rebuke of procrastination by European leaders.
Speaking at a conference in Latvia, Mr. Asmussen noted that the Baltic country, which ties its currency closely to the euro, responded to a crisis in 2008 by pushing through a severe austerity program quickly and coupling it with economic overhauls. Now the economy is growing again and unemployment is falling.
''When adjustment is inevitable, it is better to take the medicine right away than to let the fever rise for months,'' Mr. Asmussen said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Financial system proposals would not ease the crisis in Spain. In Barcelona, men were given breakfast in a charity program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Cristobal Montoro, the Spanish treasury minister, said on Tuesday that the country might be cut off from borrowing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAVIER LIZON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



190 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Group Forms To Urge Strict Oversight Of Wall St.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Efforts to increase and improve regulation of Wall Street have bogged down, according to Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. On Wednesday, she will announce a new group, the Systemic Risk Council, that will monitor and encourage regulatory reform.
''The great challenge is to devise a system to identify risks that threaten market stability before they become a danger to the general public,'' she said. ''We need a more effective and efficient early-warning system to detect issues that jeopardize the functioning of U.S. financial markets before they disrupt credit flows to the real economy. And two of the most critical tasks are how to impose greater market discipline on excess risk-taking and effectively end the doctrine 'too big to fail.' '' 
The Dodd-Frank act passed in 2010 provided for numerous steps, including the creation of an Office of Financial Research that was supposed to help the newly created Financial Stability Oversight Council in identifying threats to financial stability and deciding which financial firms were systemically important and how much additional regulation they should receive. That council is composed of all the major regulatory bodies, and so far it has accomplished little.
Some of what Dodd-Frank called for has been enacted, including so-called living wills for large banks and rules on how the business of such a firm would be wound down if it failed.
But much has not been done. The law included the Volcker Rule, named for its creator, Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, that barred banks from engaging in proprietary trading but left it to regulators to adopt rules. Banks have harshly criticized proposals to enforce the Volcker Rule, and it is not clear what will happen. Efforts to reform the private mortgage securitization business have gone nowhere.
In many areas, Ms. Bair said, ''nothing has been finalized. F.S.O.C. is M.I.A. O.F.R. is barely functional. The Volcker Rule is mired in controversy. Securitization reform is stalled. They haven't even proposed new bank capital rules. The public is becoming cynical about whether the regulators can do anything right, which is undermining support for reforms.''
In an interview, she cited a report by Davis Polk, a major law firm, saying that regulators had so far missed two-thirds of the 221 deadlines for adopting regulations set forth in the law.
The new group, which expects to begin issuing reports quickly, will include a long list of former regulators and officials from both parties, including former Senators Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey; Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska; and Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. It will also include Brooksley E. Born, a former chairwoman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, whose efforts to fight deregulation in the Clinton administration failed, and Paul H. O'Neill, the first Treasury secretary under George W. Bush.
Others include John S. Reed, the former head of Citicorp, and Hugh F. Johnston, the chief financial officer of Pepsico. Mr. Volcker is listed as a senior adviser. The organization is being formed by the Pew Charitable Trusts, where Ms. Bair now works, and the CFA Institute, an organization of financial analysts.
''Despite the magnitude of the financial crisis, prospects for major reform of regulatory systems are inadequate and vague,'' said John D. Rogers, the president of the CFA Institute and a member of the new group. ''This council will serve as an essential sounding board for systemic risk reforms focused on strong investor protection, and offer a critical voice to promote the enforcement of regulations, financial disclosure and transparency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the F.D.I.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T.J. KIRKPATRICK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%); SECURITIZATION (62%); LIVING WILLS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (89%); CHUCK HAGEL (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



191 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: In El Barrio, a New Bookstore Is Counting on Its Community

BYLINE: By FREDERICK BERNAS

 BODY:
It seems to make little business sense. Not when Amazon's dominance continues to threaten brick-and-mortar storefronts. And not when the economy has already claimed many small businesses.
None of that, however, has deterred Aurora Anaya-Cerda from pursuing her dream.
It took six years, but her quest to open a bookstore, La Casa Azul, has finally come to fruition. 
''This has been an incredible journey, overwhelming at times,'' Ms. Anaya-Cerda said. ''So many people have told me they share my dream - to have this as a community space is something we've all wanted for East Harlem.''
A mural on the outside of the store, which specializes in Latino literature, in English and in Spanish, depicts the faces of Julia de Burgos, Pedro Pietri and Piri Thomas - literary icons whose works have helped promote Puerto Rican culture. Raising awareness for these figures is part of Ms. Anaya-Cerda's mission to help El Barrio's Latino community get in touch with its heritage and history.
''This is going to be a mecca for writers from all over the country,'' said Rich Villar, a poet, who attended the store's opening on Friday.
La Casa Azul lies at the nexus of a changing neighborhood at East 103rd Street and Lexington Avenue. Plush condos and gritty bodegas stand side by side. A large Mexican restaurant is just steps away, reflecting the demographic shift of recent years.
Ms. Anaya-Cerda herself was born in Mexico, before her family moved to California when she was 5. In 2005, she was captivated by El Barrio on her first trip to the East Coast.
''It felt like home, really comfortable. I could see myself living here,'' she said. ''Two years later, I moved. It was a one-way ticket - no job, no friends. I gave myself three months. If I didn't have a job after that, I would go home.''
She found a teaching post at an after-school program, before also going to work at El Museo del Barrio coordinating educational initiatives. ''Throughout that whole time, while I was working these two jobs, I was also planning to open a store,'' Ms. Anaya-Cerda said.
Her love for literature goes back to childhood, when she was ''surrounded by books'' at a very young age. ''My mother says that I'm a reader from the womb, because she would read a lot even when she was pregnant,'' Ms. Anaya-Cerda said.
''Literature played an important part in my life, and the bookstore idea started from there,'' she added.
But financial problems got in the way. Last year a bank loan was denied at the 11th hour, as Ms. Anaya-Cerda was about to sign her lease. She then raised $36,000 in online and private donations and received an interest-free matching loan from an investor, which enabled her to secure the space.
La Casa Azul (''The Blue House'') is named after the painter Frida Kahlo's home in the outskirts of Mexico City, and Ms. Anaya-Cerda hopes to create a similarly intimate atmosphere.
Marlene Pratt, who helped open the store, said of Ms. Anaya-Cerda: ''She designed it with the concept of her grandmother's house. You see all the Mexican colors, nice and bright, but they complement each other. It's a modern interpretation.''
Ms. Pratt is a founder of Casa Latina, a home and lifestyle brand serving Latino communities. She arranged a $5,000 furniture donation from Ikea to La Casa Azul. The store's basement reading lounge is filled with comfortable seating, and will serve as a gallery, while its backyard provides extra space for private or educational events.
''Artists will be coming every week, July through August, to teach different art projects,'' Ms. Anaya-Cerda said. ''We will also have film screenings on the patio, author readings, and a 'meet the agent' workshop for writers.''
If history is any predictor, Ms. Anaya-Cerda will have to be as creative as possible to keep her dream alive.
A few blocks away, another bookstore, Cemi Underground, closed in 2009, just two years after opening.
''We held events every Thursday and Friday - comedy, poetry, open mic nights - and the place would fill up,'' said Luis Cordero Santoni, a graphic artist, who had started the store and who also works for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
''I think we produced 150 events in two years,'' he said. ''But the problem was that during the week, there would be very few sales. I was not making enough to sustain the bookstore.''
Ms. Anaya-Cerda said she was fully aware of the economic perils she may face. But she said her past experience working at six bookstores made her ''as prepared as I can be.''
''I'm taking on the challenge at full speed, because I think it's important for the community,'' she added.
Sery Colon also had unpleasant experiences trying to sell books the old-fashioned way.
Not only did he work at Cemi Underground, Mr. Colon was also the owner of Agueybana, a Latino bookstore on the Lower East Side that shuttered in 1998 when ''the rent increased fourfold.''
''One time, I remember somebody called to ask if I had a specific Puerto Rican book, and he dared to tell me it was $2 cheaper on Amazon,'' he continued. ''That's what killed me.''
Mr. Colon still occasionally dabbles in the trade. At a market outside El Museo del Barrio recently, he ''made just one sale all day,'' yet he still believes an appetite for literature exists in East Harlem. ''You need to know where you are, what kind of people you're serving, and what books interest them. You cannot carry just what you want to carry.''
These cautionary tales have not discouraged Ms. Anaya-Cerda, who was in high spirits as a long line of people formed outside La Casa Azul on its opening night. ''It feels amazing and surreal,'' she said. ''This place is just how I dreamed it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A display at the grand opening of La Casa Azul on Friday in East Harlem. The independent bookstore, named after the home of the painter Frida Kahlo, faces an uphill battle for survival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD VEST/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); WRITERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LITERATURE (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



192 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Sector Leads a Market Rebound

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Tuesday, recovering some ground from last week's sell-off, as data showed that the nation's services sector improved in May and outweighed investors' worries about the euro zone's fiscal crisis.
Financial stocks ranked among the best performers. The Standard & Poor's 500 financial sector index gained 1.7 percent, significantly outperforming other sectors. 
Bank of America shares rose 2.9 percent to $7.10 and JPMorgan Chase increased 3.2 percent to $31.98. The financial sector index, however, has lost 13 percent since the start of May.
But the rebound was expected to be temporary as market sentiment remained bearish in the face of the euro zone's debt crisis and recent data that showed that the United States economy was growing more slowly than expected.
The market could also be setting itself up for disappointment, with the European Central Bank meeting on Wednesday and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testifying on the economy before a Congressional committee on Thursday.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 26.49 points, or 0.22 percent, at 12,127.95. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 7.32 points, or 0.57 percent, at 1,285.50. The Nasdaq composite index was up 18.10 points, or 0.66 percent, at 2,778.11.
''I wouldn't be shocked if we actually extended further gains from here, but those could easily be wiped out,'' James L. Dailey, portfolio manager of TEAM Financial Asset Management, said. ''The question is, do you really want to be picking up nickels and dimes in front of a bulldozer?''
''The market hasn't seen a real sellers' panic, which lies ahead,'' he added.
The European Central Bank meeting could have an impact on the euro crisis if the bank signaled a willingness to take action that would ease the financial stresses on Europe.
The pace of growth in the nation's services sector picked up in May as a gauge of new orders improved, according to an industry report. The Institute for Supply Management's services index edged up to 53.7 in May from 53.5 in April, a touch above economists' forecast for it to hold steady.
The institute's data let investors breathe a brief sigh of relief after a number of negative economic reports. Those reports and concerns about the euro zone drove the S.& P. 500 down more than 6 percent in May.
Spain's treasury minister, Cristobal Montoro, said that the nation's high borrowing costs had effectively shut it out of the bond market and that the European Union should help Madrid recapitalize its debt-laden banks.
Statements after emergency talks by the finance chiefs of the Group of 7 industrialized nations on the euro zone's deepening crisis gave investors little clarity.
Japan's finance minister said he had told G-7 members that Japan was confident in Europe's response to its problems, but he indicated that Tokyo was prepared to intervene to curb its currency.
Most major economies in the euro zone are in various states of decline, according to business surveys that suggested even Germany was no longer immune to the crisis.
Facebook, the social networking company, fell 3.8 percent to $25.87, down 31 percent from its market debut on May 18.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 15/32, to 101 20/32, and the yield rose to 1.57 percent, from 1.52 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Improvement in the nation's services sector relieved investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (88%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BONDS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BOND MARKETS (69%); RANKINGS (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (54%); FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (51%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



193 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Fairness and Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In a nation that prides itself on fair play and equal opportunity, it seems incongruous that people with wealth-based income -- interest, dividends, capital gains, rent -- are excused from paying Social Security (traditionally 12.4 percent) and Medicare taxes (2.9 percent) on that income. Equally odd, they do not pay Social Security tax on wages above $110,100. Shouldn't these taxes be paid on all income? Taxing the ''earned'' and not the ''unearned'' seems rather un-American, doesn't it? 
The two preferences hark back to Social Security's 1930s groundbreaking origins. Without these exclusions, would there have been a political consensus to create Social Security? Maybe, maybe not, but no decision is fixed forever.
If these preferences were eliminated and the economy recovered to mirror a positive year like 2007, the Social Security Trust Fund would nearly double its annual revenue. We could expect to see an additional $500 billion for Social Security and $100 billion for Medicare. The additional Social Security inflow would almost cover the annual outflow, leaving most of the current revenue as a surplus to accommodate the baby boomers.
Virtually all income of the bottom 50 percent is ''earned'' and fully taxed for Social Security and Medicare. Many people are unaware that wealthy taxpayers are entitled to exempt much, if not most, of their wages, as well as investment income. Ending those exemptions would allow a major reduction in Social Security and Medicare tax rates.
Alternatively, if tax rates stayed at or near current levels, Congress could use half the new revenue to strengthen Social Security, Medicare, food stamps, unemployment and other support programs. The other half could be used to abolish the corporate income tax, which has averaged about $224 billion in annual revenues over the last decade.
Such a ''grand bargain'' would make the funding of the safety net fairer and eliminate the double taxation of dividends. Abolishing the corporate income tax would also make American companies more competitive internationally.
JAMES ABERT Lancaster, Pa., June 4, 2012
The writer is a retired faculty member at the McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University.
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Abert's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA KALFAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BABY BOOMERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



194 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Using His Fans To Introduce A Girlfriend

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FRAGRANCE counters could soon be catching another case of Bieber Fever as they begin selling a second celebrity scent from the young singer Justin Bieber.
Fragrance No. 2, called Justin Bieber's Girlfriend, is scheduled to arrive the week of June 18 at Macy's stores, and will also be available this month at retailers like Belk, Dillard's, Nordstrom and Sephora. Girlfriend will arrive a year after the introduction of the first scent endorsed by Mr. Bieber, Someday, which became the best-selling celebrity fragrance ever and the best-selling new women's fragrance of any kind brought out in 2011.
As befits a performer whose following is concentrated so much among young people, the campaign to promote Girlfriend, with a budget estimated at $20 million, is focusing on social media like Tumblr and Twitter. Mr. Bieber's Twitter feed is followed by almost 22.9 million people, and he has close to 44 million ''likes'' on Facebook. 
The new media aspects of the campaign will also touch on the ads appearing in traditional media. For instance, Mr. Bieber is going on Facebook and Viddy, a mobile video sharing service, this week to invite fans to enter a ''sing-off'' on Tumblr to help create a 60-second television commercial for Girlfriend.
The commercial will be composed of video clips of fans performing their versions of a new Bieber song, ''Boyfriend,'' with lyrics they rewrite to change the song to ''Girlfriend.'' The commercial is set to make its debut on June 21 during a special on NBC devoted to Mr. Bieber.
''With Girlfriend, we are channeling the spirit and passion of one of the largest, most dedicated digital fan bases on earth,'' said Pelle Sjoenell, executive creative director of the Los Angeles office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which Give Back Brands -- the company that markets the Bieber celebrity fragrances -- hired to create the introductory campaign for Girlfriend.
''We saw firsthand the passion of Justin Bieber's fans through our work on Google Chrome,'' Mr. Sjoenell said. His reference was to a commercial, part of a series for the Google browser, that his agency created last year that traced the start of the singer's career from the days when his mother uploaded his performance videos to YouTube.
The agency working on media planning for the Girlfriend campaign, Media Kitchen in New York, part of the Maxxcom Global Media division of MDC Partners, also handled those duties for the Someday campaign.
''Can you imagine what it would cost to reach more than 40 million people in mass media today?'' asked Barry Lowenthal, president at Media Kitchen, making reference to Mr. Bieber's legion of fans on social media.
''Ten million dollars,'' he said, if that audience were reached through three commercials on the season finale of ''American Idol.''
Traditional media has a place in the campaign, Mr. Lowenthal noted, citing the commercial and print ads, photographed by Ben Watts, that will run in magazines like Cosmopolitan, Glamour, Seventeen and Teen Vogue. They can be amplified by new media outlets that are fueled by the fervor of ''all the fans who want to get closer to Justin,'' he added.
For instance, the 10 to 12 winners of the ''sing-off'' whose videos are chosen for the commercial will have their Twitter handles appear on screen during the spot. And ''there will be lots of other digital experiences for the rest of the year,'' Mr. Lowenthal said.
Sometimes, however, there are drawbacks to the digital approach.
''We crash servers all the time,'' said Brad Haugen, chief marketing officer at Scooter Braun Projects, the company led by Mr. Bieber's manager, Scooter Braun. Mr. Haugen estimated that ''over 4 percent of Twitter's servers'' are devoted to the traffic generated by Mr. Bieber and his followers.
The Bieber brand is powerful, as evidenced by the retail sales of Someday as well as Mr. Bieber's ranking of No. 3 on the 2012 Celebrity 100 list compiled by Forbes magazine, behind Jennifer Lopez and Oprah Winfrey. Mr. Bieber even made the cover of Forbes, clad in an outfit -- suit, white shirt, tie -- befitting his annual earnings, estimated by Forbes at $55 million.
Going beyond traditional media will enable the Girlfriend campaign ''to break through and allow fans to engage,'' said Noreen Dodge, executive vice president for global marketing at Give Back Brands.
She said there were few concerns that Girlfriend might cannibalize sales of Someday because ''young girls wear multiple fragrances.''
As for the other sex, Ms. Dodge said, ''we would absolutely in the future consider a male fragrance'' from Mr. Bieber.
Celebrity scents are sometimes seen as the red-haired stepchildren of the fragrance industry. At the Fragrance Foundation Awards last month, at which Someday won Celebrity Fragrance of the Year, Women's Wear Daily reported that the actress Jane Lynch joked, ''Why is it that singers always come out with fragrances, but Marc Jacobs has yet to drop an album?''
Ms. Dodge was undaunted. ''I think there's a tremendous amount of respect for celebrity fragrances'' among retailers, she said. She pointed to another article in Women's Wear Daily, in which a Macy's executive said that celebrity scents made up 10 percent of her fragrance business, compared with an estimate that such products made up 4 percent of all scent sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A campaign to promote Justin Bieber's Girlfriend, a new women's fragrance, will include print ads but will focus on social media like Tumblr and Twitter. His Twitter feed is followed by almost 22.9 million people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (79%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (79%); RETAILERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); MOBILE MEDIA (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (52%); MDC PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); MDZ.A (TSX) (51%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



195 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: MF Global Dodged Capital Requirements, Report Says

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Under pressure from regulators last summer to increase its capital cushion, MF Global moved some of its risky European debt holdings to an unregulated entity in an effort to avoid having to raise extra money, according to a new report. The revelation raises new questions about MF Global's actions in its last months - in particular, how it responded to regulators. The brokerage firm had previously disclosed that it had met the capital requirements, but never mentioned that it had transferred some bonds rather than raising additional money. The shift was detailed in a report by Louis J. Freeh, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of MF Global. The report is separate from the one issued Monday by James W. Giddens, the court-appointed trustee charged with recovering money for MF Global's customers.
''This strategy allowed the MF Global Group to transfer the economic benefits and risks,'' thus reducing the ''regulatory capital requirements,'' the report by Mr. Freeh said.
Shifting the bonds to an unregulated entity to avoid capital requirements is unusual at financial firms, corporate accounting specialists say. Regulators expressed concerns about the maneuver, although ultimately they did not block it. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, said it lacked jurisdiction to pursue the matter further. 
''It's a shell game, and the problem is the regulators buy off on this stuff, and then when it implodes, they always look so stupid,'' said Lynn E. Turner, the former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''Common sense says why would you accept these types of shenanigans?''
The new details are part of Mr. Freeh's 119-page report outlining the status of his investigation of MF Global, which collapsed last October after misusing roughly $1 billion of customer money. In the report, which was filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York late Monday, Mr. Freeh said that creditors such as banks and big investors could have more than $3 billion in claims against the company.
''This report gets to the heart of the complex intercompany relationships inherent in a global firm that provided financing for its affiliates and subsidiaries all over the world,'' said Mr. Freeh, a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. ''We believe this report provides increased transparency as to how the firm's capital flowed through these entities.''
Mr. Freeh, who is responsible for recovering money on behalf of MF Global's creditors, has cast a worldwide net. The report lists claims against affiliates from Britain to Mauritius. But Mr. Freeh's biggest potential target is Mr. Giddens, the trustee whose job is to return customers' missing money.
Mr. Freeh has filed claims for more than $2.3 billion against a separate dealer entity that Mr. Giddens is overseeing, drawing the lines in an increasingly tense turf war between the men.
Ultimately, their missions - to claim a limited pool of money - are at odds. Mr. Giddens is working to get money from that pool for farmers, traders and hedge funds left with a roughly $1 billion hole in their accounts. Mr. Freeh is vying for much of the same funds, but on behalf of businesses and banks that are owed money by MF Global.
While publicly the men have played down tensions between them, privately the fight has become more acrimonious. Mr. Freeh's report is littered with references to Mr. Giddens's office not producing documents and information.
The tension could have affect customers. Mr. Giddens is expected to set aside a substantial amount of money because of Mr. Freeh's claims, which would ''take those assets out of the pool available for distribution to customers until the claims are resolved,'' said Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for Mr. Giddens.
Mr. Giddens released his own status report earlier Monday. The 275-page document covered in painstaking detail the final weeks before MF Global's collapse, and raised the prospect of filing civil suits against top executives at the firm to recoup assets, including the former chief executive, Jon S. Corzine.
The report provided the most exhaustive accounting yet of what transpired at the firm, including its decision to tap customer money with repeated frequency as the business suffered a crisis of confidence.
What the reports from Mr. Freeh and Mr. Giddens have in common is the portrait they paint of MF Global and its leadership. The firm that emerges from their pages is one that was constantly flying by the seat of its pants, prone to risky decisions with few controls to keep it in check. While the chaos in the last days of the firm is well known, what the reports show is that aggressive behavior was taking place well before the market took its toll.
Mr. Freeh is still conducting an investigation of what happened at the commodities brokerage firm. Yet, the details on MF Global's efforts to skirt capital rules raise additional questions about what the firm - and its regulators - were doing to address a looming crisis.
Months before MF Global filed for bankruptcy, regulators raised concerns about the firm's $6 billion bet on European sovereign debt. At the time, worries about highly indebted nations like Greece, Spain and Italy were causing volatility in the financial markets.
Given the market turmoil, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, demanded that MF Global set aside extra money in case the trades soured. But MF Global objected, appealing the regulator's ruling to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Corzine, the former Democratic governor of New Jersey and a former head of Goldman Sachs, lobbied the S.E.C. to back down, flying down to Washington from New York to make his appeal in person.
He lost. The agency sided with Finra. In a September 2011 filing, MF Global said it had ''increased its net capital and currently has net capital sufficient to exceed both the required minimum level and Finra's early-warning notification level.''
But the disclosure did not give the full picture. While MF Global did move some cash around to protect against losses, the firm also transferred roughly $3 billion in holdings of Italian bonds from its brokerage arm to ''FinCo,'' an unregulated entity of the firm, according to Mr. Freeh's report. By doing so, MF Global met its requirements without having to raise money.
At the time, MF Global held about $6 billion in the debt of Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal, representing about 14 percent of its assets and nearly five times the equity of the firm. The Italian bonds represented about half the firm's risky European position.
After Finra's capital request became known in October, investors were rattled, pushing the shares of MF Global sharply lower. Ratings agencies warned that they might cut the firm's credit ratings, escalating the fears in the marketplace. The effect of downgrades from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's were worsened by a poor earnings report. On Oct. 31, MF Global filed for bankruptcy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Louis J. Freeh, right, the trustee for MF Global Holdings, said the firm did not disclose that it had shifted some bonds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CAMERON/REUTERS) (B1)
 A new report raised the prospect of civil suits against Jon S. Corzine, the former chief of MF Global, and others to recover assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JURISDICTION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) MAURITIUS (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



196 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: The Governor and the Committee

 BODY:
When Andrew Cuomo was running for governor of New York in 2010, he printed eight books describing his priorities. Many were excellent ideas, including campaign finance reform, ethics reform, balancing the budget, ending pay-to-play, getting government to work. Nowhere in those books was there a word about casinos.
So it was a surprise to many when Mr. Cuomo, in his State of the State address this year, made expanding casino gambling a top priority on his agenda. Now we learn that the gambling industry has been very generous to the governor's cause. 
The Times reported on Tuesday that an industry trade group donated $2 million last year to the Committee to Save New York, a group organized at Mr. Cuomo's urging to promote the governor's policies and praise his performance with campaign-style political ads. Genting, a gambling company that helped found the industry trade group, contributed an additional $400,000.
Through his spokesman, Mr. Cuomo has strongly denied that there is any connection between the gambling donations and his enthusiasm for legalizing Las Vegas-style casinos. The spokesman said the governor had been considering ways to manage and expand gambling in New York for months before the industry's donations.
But even in the slush fields of Albany, $2.4 million is a lot of money. And because the Committee to Save New York is registered as a tax-exempt social welfare organization, called a 501(c)(4), it has not been required until now to publicly disclose its donors.
In March -- two months after Mr. Cuomo's speech -- the Legislature endorsed a constitutional amendment that could eventually allow up to seven Las Vegas-style casinos. The amendment must be approved again next year by lawmakers and then go to state voters. But the gambling industry clearly has a lot of new friends in Albany. And the committee, which had been focused on promoting a property tax cap and reduced state spending, has now added the constitutional amendment to its list of Mr. Cuomo's legislative successes on its Web site.
New Yorkers can and should have a serious debate about expanded gambling -- its potential economic value to the state and its potential social costs. But there should be no debate about New Yorkers' need to know who is contributing millions to promote what political issues.
The Committee to Save New York raised $17 million last year and spent nearly $12 million -- much of it on pro-Cuomo ads -- making it the biggest spender on lobbying in Albany.
Cuomo administration officials argue that the governor pushed hard for ethics reform last year that, among other things, would require 501(c)(4) groups to disclose their donors. The legislation has a worrisome loophole that allows donors to remain secret if disclosure could lead to them being harassed or threatened. That is the claim made by business groups at the national level that are fighting disclosure. Meanwhile, New York's new ethics committee has yet to write the disclosure rules.
Mr. Cuomo does not need to wait for that to happen. He can demonstrate his commitment to reform by pushing his friends at the committee to disclose all of its donors right now.
Under the Internal Revenue Code, all 501(c)(4)s are required to have a social welfare purpose that is not primarily political. We are eager to know what that purpose is for the committee, beyond supporting Mr. Cuomo and promoting the interests of its contributors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); GAMING (91%); ETHICS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CASINOS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



197 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: For City, Costs Are Mounting In Pre-K Effort

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Tom Torok contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York City is paying private contractors more than $1 billion this year to operate a little-known special education program for 3- and 4-year-olds, nearly double the amount it paid six years ago.
The program serves 25,000 children with physical, learning, developmental and other disabilities. While the number of children in the program has risen slowly in recent years, annual costs have soared to about $40,000 per child, according to an analysis of city education spending by The New York Times.
The city pays private contractors to provide classes, as well as individual instruction at homes, day care centers and nursery schools. Children may also be prescribed speech, physical and occupational therapy in half-hour sessions, several times a week.
The prekindergarten program is far more expensive in New York than it is elsewhere, and oversight by the city and state has often been lax, according to interviews with officials, regulators and contractors. 
Education and budget officials said they were alarmed by the costs, but maintained that lobbyists for private contractors had blocked efforts in Albany to curb spending.
The program, often referred to as special-ed pre-K, now accounts for about 6 percent of the city's $19 billion education budget, the spending analysis showed.
''Certainly these children are deserving of services, but it's a question of whether all this money is actually benefiting them or is being wasted on the contractors,'' said Raymond J. Domanico, director of education research for the city's Independent Budget Office.
City officials said some of the growth in spending stemmed from more awareness of autism: some special-ed pre-K students, for example, are receiving behavior-modification therapy as many as 35 hours a week, driving their costs as high as $200,000 a year. But the officials acknowledged that autism services accounted for only part of the increase.
When government auditors have delved into disclosure reports by contractors, they have routinely discovered irregularities.
Some contractors have billed the program for jewelry, expensive clothing, vacations to Mexico and spa trips to the Canyon Ranch resort, The Times found in a review of a decade's worth of education, financial and court records. Others have hired relatives at inflated salaries or for no-show jobs, or funneled public money into expensive rents paid by their preschools to entities they control personally.
New audits by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli -- which focused on a dozen special-ed pre-K contractors, seven of them in New York City -- have already led to a felony guilty plea by one Brooklyn contractor, and officials said more arrests were expected.
In New York State, overall spending on special education for 3- and 4-year-olds is expected to approach $2 billion in 2012, with the largest increase in recent years occurring in New York City, according to city and state records.
In most of the country, public school districts provide special-ed pre-K. New York is the only state that turns over the program to private contractors, many of which are for-profit companies. (The state's program predates a 1986 federal law mandating special-ed pre-K, and New York always relied on contractors.)
The contractors often have a dual role: they evaluate children and identify disabilities, and then they deliver services, at costs that are higher than in other states, education experts said. Technically, city administrators choose which contractors provide services, but in practice, contractors acknowledge that they have significant influence over these decisions.
Under this structure, contractors have an incentive to inflate the number of services children require, said Julie Berry Cullen, an economist who has studied special-education spending.
''People who evaluate students say it's an objective process,'' she said. ''But it's not. It clearly responds to financial incentives.''
Records obtained by The Times under the state's Freedom of Information Law showed that 83 percent of the contractors that evaluated children in the program since 2003 went on to teach those same pupils.
Steve Albert, who oversees special-ed pre-K for the city's Education Department, acknowledged that the program was expensive, but said that it worked.
''The bottom line is, we have an awful lot of kids with disabilities that are increasingly needing more services per student,'' Mr. Albert said. ''And these kids are having better outcomes later on, the more you put in now.''
The private contractors, who have their tuition rates set by the state, have become an influential lobbying force in Albany, where they have regularly rallied parents of disabled children to protest spending curbs in the program.
One trade association, Professional Agencies for Children's Therapy Services, employs Steven Sanders, a former chairman of the State Assembly Education Committee, as its executive director and main lobbyist.
Mr. Sanders said the contractors cared deeply about helping children, adding that most of the association's members were barely holding their own in the face of rising expenses.
''Like any and every program, you can always find abuse or outliers,'' he said. ''But investments for infants, toddlers and young children are right and financially smart.''
Pamela A. Madeiros, a lobbyist for the New York State Alliance for Children with Special Needs, a large group of prekindergarten contractors, testified before the Legislature in March that criticism of conflicts of interest was ''baseless and provocative.''
Ms. Madeiros, who did not respond to messages seeking comment, said that to bar evaluators from providing services was akin to preventing a doctor who made a diagnosis from treating the patient.
Done right, special-ed pre-K can have a considerable impact, said Mary Ellen Markman, who runs the pre-K program at Bankstreet College of Education in Manhattan. ''The older kids get, the less elasticity there is in the brain,'' she said.
And parents who criticize New York's system generally say too little is spent: overworked administrators take too long with paperwork, and children are denied services for which they were approved.
''If there's any way to crack down on agencies doing the wrong thing, do that, so agencies doing the right thing can continue,'' said Randi Levine, a lawyer for Advocates for Children of New York.
Still, New York's costs far exceed those elsewhere. Pennsylvania serves nearly 50,000 children for about $5,100 a child, officials said. Massachusetts, whose program is considered ''resource-rich'' by experts in the field, spends less than $10,000 a child.
''I hope they're getting laptops and tablets and a ride to school in a chauffeured limousine,'' said Michael Salvatore, the schools superintendent and a former special-ed pre-K teacher in Long Branch, N.J., which spends $9,700 a child, including busing.
As New York's program has become more expensive, the city and state have not increased scrutiny of contractors, officials said.
Regulators rely on contractors' own accountants to vouch for billing. City and state officials conduct audits infrequently, and when they do, the results often languish on the shelves of the State Education Department. Some audits have not been given final approval and released until years after the contractors being audited went out of business.
Penalties for overbilling are relatively mild. City officials said they were reluctant to close contractors because they did not want to reduce the number of special-ed pre-K seats, given the high demand.
Many contractors view weak penalties as the ''cost of doing business,'' said Jerry Barber, an assistant state comptroller who has had a role in special-ed pre-K audits since the 1990s. ''If you're a bad actor, you'll just figure out a new way to game the system again next year,'' he said. ''You'll figure the auditors won't be around again for three or four more years -- if they ever come back.''
Valerie Grey, executive deputy commissioner of the State Education Department, said regulators could not significantly control spending without legislative approval.
Asked whether the State Board of Regents had pressed for reforms, Ms. Grey said, ''The board has made a consistent, concerted effort to evaluate how the program could change while still assuring that children have the services they need.''
But Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan, a Queens Democrat who is chairwoman of the Education Committee, questioned the department's commitment to reform.
''It requires their advocacy for their proposals and their willingness to look at compromises,'' she said. ''The side that speaks the loudest are the disabled and their parents themselves.''
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, suggested limited changes in his budget proposal this year, but the Legislature has not approved them. Local officials, who run the program based on state regulations, said even minor reforms were stymied.
''From our perspective, it's just kind of stunning,'' said Stephen J. Acquario, executive director of the New York State Association of Counties. ''When I go to try to meet with a senator or assemblyperson, I can't even start the conversation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A prekindergarten class at Bankstreet College of Education. New York spends more per special-ed pre-K student than other cities do. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); AUTISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILD CARE (77%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); SPEECH THERAPY (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%); FELONIES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



198 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Names Its Top Lawyer as Chief

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Fannie Mae, the government-backed mortgage finance giant, on Tuesday chose Timothy J. Mayopoulos, who was ousted in a shake-up at Bank of America at the height of the financial crisis, to be its next chief executive.
Securing the top job at Fannie Mae, which last month posted its first profitable quarter without government support since 2008, represents a vindication for Mr. Mayopoulos, a highly regarded lawyer who joined Fannie Mae as its general counsel in the spring of 2009. 
Mr. Mayopoulos was forced out as general counsel at Bank of America as executives were at odds over mounting losses linked to its purchase of Merrill Lynch in December 2008. Mr. Mayopoulos was replaced by Brian T. Moynihan, who went on to become chief executive of Bank of America a year later.
Mr. Mayopoulos takes over for Michael Williams, who in January announced he would step down as chief executive after 21 years at Fannie Mae. Mr. Williams had been in the top post since 2009.
Fannie Mae is at the center of the broader argument over how to fix the housing finance system in the wake of the subprime collapse and the broader financial crisis. Turning Fannie Mae around amid attacks from the left and right has been one of Washington's most thankless tasks.
''I am excited, but I'm not naive,'' Mr. Mayopoulos said Tuesday in an interview. ''I know this is a very difficult and challenging job.''
As chief executive of Fannie Mae, Mr. Mayopoulos will have to weigh in on one of the most contentious issues facing Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac, the other huge government-sponsored mortgage entity: whether to take principal losses on mortgages it owns to help beleaguered homeowners and aid the battered housing market.
Edward J. DeMarco, the acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has steadfastly opposed principal reduction, despite calls from housing advocates, the White House and some members of Congress to consider it. Fannie and Freddie together own or back more than half of the country's $12 trillion in mortgages, and each month the two companies guarantee $100 billion worth of new mortgages, equal to three out of every four mortgages originated.
About 10.7 million mortgage holders are underwater. Collectively, their negative equity is almost $700 billion. On average, these homeowners, equal to one in five Americans with mortgages, are underwater by $50,000 each.
At issue now is whether the government will push for some form of principal reduction for mortgage holders who owe more than their homes are worth or whether it will stick to mainly modifying loans by lowering interest rates.
In the interview Tuesday, Mr. Mayopoulos said broad reductions in principal, which would cause billions in additional losses for Fannie Mae, were not necessary.
''I've been involved in examining that issue,'' he said. ''We have the tools we need to assist homeowners with troubled mortgages. I don't believe we need principal forgiveness as a tool. We are already effective with the tools we have.''
Despite the promotion, Mr. Mayopoulos's total compensation will actually shrink as a result of the move up, as Fannie Mae hews to promises it made to reduce executive pay after the big taxpayer bailouts of Fannie and Freddie. His pay will fall from $2.6 million in 2012 to $600,000 next year. Mr. Williams earned $5.3 million in 2011.
''I was asked whether I'd be willing to take the lower pay,'' he said. ''This is a very difficult job and a challenging job, but I'm excited about the prospects of this organization, considering all the good it does.''
Fannie Mae is embroiled with his former employer in an increasingly bitter fight over repurchases of mortgages that the bank originated.
Fannie argues that the mortgages it bought from Bank of America soured because they were underwritten improperly, with little regard for key information like borrower income or assets. Bank of America contends the mortgages, some of which went bad years after they were first made, went into default because of problems in the broader economy, not underwriting procedures.
In February, Bank of America said it would no longer sell mortgages to Fannie Mae.
While Mr. Mayopoulos has recused himself from direct involvement with the repurchase dispute, he said, ''I need to be aware, and I will have the appropriate people working on them. I'd want to make sure they are addressed, but I will not be a decision maker on them.''
Fannie Mae is considerably larger than Freddie Mac, but both companies capsized in 2008, amid huge losses caused by the bursting of the housing bubble. The two companies were taken into conservatorship, akin to bankruptcy, in the summer of 2008, just weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Unlike the bailouts for some of the nation's largest banks during the financial crisis -- including Bank of America and Citigroup -- the rescue of Fannie and Freddie has not yielded a profit for taxpayers. The Treasury has poured $116 billion into Fannie since 2008, of which $23 billion has been paid back in the form of dividends. Freddie Mac has received about $72 billion, of which $18 billion has been returned.
A slowdown in the decline of home prices, along with hints of improvement in some areas, helped Fannie Mae earn a profit and cover its $2.8 billion dividend to the Treasury in the first quarter. But expectations for the economy have dimmed more recently, and the grim unemployment numbers released last Friday do not bode well for the broader housing market, making renewed government assistance a possibility in the future.
''Clearly, we've made substantial progress over the last three and a half years,'' Mr. Mayopoulos said, noting the most recent quarterly numbers were the healthiest in years. But continued recovery, he said, ''is a function of a lot of factors, many of which are beyond our control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy J. Mayopoulos, a well-regarded lawyer, joined Fannie Mae as general counsel in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (74%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



199 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: After Loss, JPMorgan Regulators In Spotlight

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - JPMorgan Chase's regulators will be in the spotlight here on Wednesday, when they testify before Congress on the bank's multibillion-dollar trading blunder and its implications for the future of Wall Street regulation.
One of the bank's primary regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, will face particular scrutiny for its oversight of the JPMorgan unit responsible for a trading loss of more than $2 billion.
JPMorgan disclosed the loss from its chief investment office last month. Just months earlier, top executives from the chief investment office had traveled to Washington to persuade the comptroller that new trading restrictions threatened the future of the bank. The executives argued that the so-called Volcker Rule could prevent the powerful unit from hedging risk throughout the bank.
''This is important to maintaining the safety and soundness of JPMorgan,'' Ina R. Drew, then the head of the chief investment office, told comptroller officials, recalled one person who attended the meeting. 
Ms. Drew was joined by five other JPMorgan executives who echoed her concerns about the Volcker Rule, saying the regulatory crackdown ''could restrict or cast in doubt strategies'' that the bank ''successfully employed during the financial crisis,'' according to a memo summarizing the meeting.
The trading blowup that followed has now become a flash point in the fierce debate over the Volcker Rule, which would ban banks from trading with their own money in an effort to prevent them from placing risky wagers while enjoying government backing.
In their testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, regulators are expected to defend their oversight of JPMorgan, which had significant sway with policy makers after emerging from the 2008 financial crisis relatively unscathed. None of the more than 100 regulators embedded in JPMorgan's Manhattan headquarters kept daily watch over the chief investment office, people briefed on the matter have said, raising questions about gaps in oversight.
In testimony prepared for Wednesday's hearing, the comptroller of the currency, Thomas J. Curry, said that his office ''has been meeting daily with bank management'' on its response to the trading loss and its risk management. As part of its review, he said, the comptroller's office will examine how employees in the chief investment office were paid and whether JPMorgan will try to claw back some of their compensation. He added that the agency was reviewing how to ''improve O.C.C. supervisory approaches.''
The committee will also hear from officials of the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee, said in a statement that he hoped to hear from regulators ''on potential implications of the loss for supervision and Wall Street reform rule-making going forward.''
The testimony from regulators, while significant, is only the opening act for a hotly anticipated hearing next week with JPMorgan's chief executive, Jamie Dimon. Once considered Washington's favorite banker, Mr. Dimon is also expected to testify before the House Financial Services Committee.
Federal investigators, meanwhile, are taking a closer look at JPMorgan's trades. In the wake of announcing that it lost at least $2 billion on positions tied to complex credit derivatives, JPMorgan has received requests for documents and information from an array of federal investigators, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and federal prosecutors in Manhattan, according to people briefed on the matter. Federal authorities are examining, among other matters, JPMorgan's accounting practices and whether the bank's public disclosures played down the dire state of the trades.
The trades also hit at the heart of the controversy surrounding the Volcker Rule, named after Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve. Under the rule, which regulators expect to complete in coming months, banks may still hedge their risk.
A difficult question remains for regulators: What amounts to hedging? JPMorgan officials say the chief investment office initially hedged the bank's broad exposure to the markets, until the positions morphed into a proprietary bet.
But some Democratic lawmakers have seized on the loss to illustrate the case for the Volcker Rule, saying that tough rules are needed to rein in the risk-taking on Wall Street.
''The growing losses from JPMorgan's fiasco underscore the urgent need for a strong Volcker Rule firewall that lays out bright, clear lines between banks and hedge funds,'' said Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat and a member of the Senate Banking Committee who has championed the rule. ''I'm hopeful that the O.C.C. and others will listen to the warning sirens JPMorgan has sounded and implement a loophole-free Volcker Rule without delay.''
Amid the scrutiny from Washington, other big banks are moving to stem the fallout from JPMorgan's mistake. In a recent meeting with regulators, one Wall Street official was told it was too soon to tell whether JPMorgan's trading would affect the outcome of the Volcker Rule. The regulators acknowledged, however, that the episode could ultimately ''reset the table'' for the rule-writing process.
JPMorgan has not let up, either. One day after the bank disclosed its losses, a team of JPMorgan officials met with a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to discuss the Volcker Rule and whether other new rules would apply to American banks operating overseas. The meeting, which was scheduled before the announcement of the trading loss and was held at the bank's New York offices, began with a description of what went wrong in the chief investment office, a person who attended the meeting said.
The bank, which runs one of the best-financed lobbying operations within the commercial banking industry, second this year only to Wells Fargo, noted that it supported many new rules in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. In the company's annual report, Mr. Dimon wrote: ''If the intent of the Volcker Rule was to eliminate pure proprietary trading and to ensure that market making is done in a way that won't jeopardize a financial institution, we agree.''
The bank has been concerned about the scope of the hedging exemptions. Through hedging, the chief investment office deftly steered the bank through the 2008 financial crisis. JPMorgan did not record a losing quarter at a time when the rest of Wall Street nearly collapsed, a fact that gave the investment unit credibility on Wall Street and in Washington.
When Ms. Drew and other executives met with the comptroller officials in February, they pointed to the unit's success during the crisis. The executives arrived at the comptroller's Washington offices after eating lunch at a local Italian restaurant - and attending another Volcker-related meeting at the Federal Reserve.
At the end of the trip, some JPMorgan officials remarked that the comptroller officials were particularly familiar with the issues facing the investment unit.
''They get it,'' one person remarked.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas J. Curry, comptroller of the currency, is expected to tell Congress on Wednesday that the agency is reviewing how to improve its supervision. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Ina R. Drew was the chief investment officer at JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JPMORGAN CHASE, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



200 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Symbolism and Struggle in a Contest of Dreams

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- In the new musical ''Hands on a Hardbody,'' dreams die a sudden death, with the buckling of knees, a hand gone numb or a descent into hallucination. This Broadway-bound show, making its premiere at the La Jolla Playhouse here, sings sincerely and with a rough-edged humor of the dusty margins of American life, where people live paycheck to paycheck if they are lucky enough to have a job, and chase a chancy illusion of sudden salvation if they are not.
Consider the strange circumstances that have brought together the dozen or so Texas dwellers in the show. They have gathered to enter an annual contest sponsored by a Nissan dealership in the small city of Longview. The prize? A shiny new pickup. The winner is the man or woman who can keep a hand securely fixed to the truck for the longest time. They stand hour after hour, day after day on the hot asphalt of the dealership lot as the brutal Texas sun beats down, the mosquitoes swarm and bite, and curiosity seekers ogle this strange spectacle, placing bets on who will win. 
Inspired by the documentary film of the same title -- itself named after an actual contest in Texas -- ''Hands on a Hardbody'' features a wry, economical book by the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Doug Wright (''I Am My Own Wife''), along with a soulful score by Amanda Green and Trey Anastasio, a founding member of the rock band Phish. The show strikes a fresh, topical note for American musical theater by training a compassionate eye on the struggles of the lower-middle classes. Unlikely as its subject is, ''Hands on a Hardbody'' feels perfectly in sync with our chronically sunken economy and doesn't cloud its vision by making concessions to the kind of splashy spectacle and cozy sentimentality that most Broadway musicals trade in.
Still, the show's creators, who include the director Neil Pepe and the ballet choreographer Benjamin Millepied, assigned themselves a daunting task in choosing to build a full-scale work of musical theater around an event that is necessarily static. There is only so much you can do to animate a story that focuses on people standing still for days.
The challenge in preparing the show for a planned Broadway run will be to add some dynamism to the narrative's built-in suspense. I'm not kidding when I say that that Nissan truck, which sits at center stage throughout the show, occasionally moving this way and that as the contestants nudge it around, does as much dancing as the men and women stuck to it like living decals. (It seems a bit perverse to hire an internationally renowned dance-maker such as Mr. Millepied to create the sparse choreography; I would like to have seen more.)
But in its most important aspects ''Hands on a Hardbody'' impresses. Its characters are drawn with insight, sympathy and a refreshing lack of condescension, despite the plentiful use of colorful local idioms. Their pasts, trials and fervent ambitions are illuminated through an appealing score pungent with blues-rock authenticity. The production boasts a terrific cast led by Hunter Foster as Benny Perkins, a fierce competitor who is not above exploiting his rivals' weaknesses to get ahead, and Keith Carradine as J D Drew, who proves a dogged rival despite being older than most of the other contestants.
And while it hinders narrative freedom, one of the show's most potent assets is that soberly shining truck. It powerfully symbolizes the hopes of the contestants, who test the limits of their physical and mental endurance to win it. For these men and women, keeping a hand on the truck is by no means a lark, but the contest does offer a chance to break free from the circumscribed limits of their lives. Outlast the competition and they will win a chance to get their stalled destinies in gear.
The contestants vary widely in age and attitude. J D, the oldest, lost his oil-rig job after an accident forced him into retirement; he has been out of the hospital only a couple of weeks. His loving wife, Virginia (the excellent Mary Gordon Murray), has come to support him, but stews with frustration at his stubborn refusal to let her take a job at Walmart. ''For $186 in take-home? And no benefits?'' J D says dismissively.
Mr. Wright's book makes repeated, pointed reference to the brutal realities of the current economy. Even the dealership owner, Mike (Jim Newman), and his exasperated assistant, the peppy Cindy (Connie Ray), face calamity if the contest doesn't bring in buyers.
Jesus Pena (Jon Rua) is a Texas-born Latino whose only chance of going to veterinary school is winning the truck and putting it up for sale. Heather ( Kathleen Elizabeth Monteleone) is a bubbly blonde whose Honda has been repossessed; a minor subplot involves her flirtation with Mike during the 15-minute breaks the contestants are allowed every six hours.
The contestants are all afforded an opportunity to sing their hard-luck histories or their determined aspirations to us. At times ''Hands on a Hardbody'' feels like a hybrid of ''A Chorus Line'' and the movie ''They Shoot Horses, Don't They?'' The lyrics by Ms. Green, firmly rooted in the specifics of each character, also emphasize the choppy economic seas threatening to engulf the competitors. The young brunette Kelli (Allison Case) works at UPS and sings of her family hardship: ''My mama, she still works today/Her 401(k)'s blown away.''
Ms. Green and Mr. Anastasio collaborated on many of the songs (others are credited to one or the other), but you can definitely hear the funky, folksy flavor that distinguishes the music of Phish. Pulsating bass lines, honky-tonk piano and acoustic guitar spiced by a distinct Texas twang or a little mariachi salsa are wed to foot-tapping or somberly haunting melodies. One of the strongest songs is a gospel number, ''Joy of the Lord,'' led by the fervently religious Norma (touchingly portrayed by Keala Settle), in which the truck is turned into a giant percussion instrument. Delirious with fatigue, the remaining contestants join in a freewheeling jamboree that allows them to set aside their understated antagonism and exult in a collective sense of optimism.
For all but one of them, of course, hope will eventually give way to disappointment. Like the musical ''Once,'' ''Hands on a Hardbody'' feels restrained and even somber compared with more typical Broadway fare that showers the audience in giddy escapism. Nor does it have the romantic hook of a central love story to bind it together. Once the contest ends, the characters part ways and return to their struggles.
And while the finale strives to uplift -- contestants reassemble to sing of how their lives have moved on -- Benny leaves us with a decidedly downbeat conclusion, suggesting that we're all holding on by our fingertips, in these straitened times, to dreams consistently deferred: ''You're fighting for your breath,'' he sings, ''right from the moment of your birth.''
Hands on a Hardbody
Book by Doug Wright; lyrics by Amanda Green; music by Trey Anastasio and Ms. Green; directed by Neil Pepe; musical staging by Benjamin Millepied; music director, Zachary Dietz; sets by Christine Jones; costumes by S usan Hilferty; lighting by Kevin Adams; sound by Steve Canyon Kennedy; arrangements by Mr. Anastasio and Carmel Dean, additional arrangements by Matt Gallagher; voice and dialect coach, Phil Thompson; dramaturgy by Shirley Fishman; production stage manager, Linda Marvel; associate producer, Dana I. Harrel; production manager, Linda S. Cooper. Presented by La Jolla Playhouse, Christopher Ashley, artistic director; Michael S. Rosenberg, managing director. At La Jolla Playhouse's Mandell Weiss Theater, 2910 La Jolla Village Drive, La Jolla, Calif.; (858) 550-1010, lajollaplayhouse.org. Through Sunday. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.
WITH: Keith Carradine (J D Drew), Allison Case (Kelli Mangrum), Hunter Foster (Benny Perkins), Jay Armstrong Johnson (Greg Wilhote), David Larsen (Chris Alvaro), Jacob Ming Trent (Ronald McGowan), Kathleen Elizabeth Monteleone (Heather Stovall), Mary Gordon Murray (Virginia Drew), Jim Newman (Mike Ferris), Connie Ray (Cindy Barnes), John Rua (Jesus Pena), Keala Settle (Norma Valverde), Dale Soules (Janis Curtis), Scott Wakefield (Frank Nugent) and William Youmans (Don Curtis/Dr. Stokes).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Jay Armstrong Johnson, Allison Case and Hunter Foster in ''Hands on a Hardbody.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE BERN)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); DANCE (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); WRITERS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); BALLET (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Hands on a Hardbody (Play)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

 
