

601 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Rises To the Highest in 3 Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Consumer Confidence Index rose to a three-year high this month as consumers felt more positive about their income prospects and the direction the economy was headed.
The Conference Board said Tuesday its Consumer Confidence Index climbed to 70.4 this month, up from a revised 64.8 in January, hitting its highest level since February 2008. It was the index's fifth consecutive monthly increase and topped expectations of a reading of 65.0 among economists, according to FactSet. 
The reading is better than economists had expected but still below the 90-plus readings that signal a stable economy.
While consumer confidence is rising, continued troubles in the housing market and other lingering effects of the recession are keeping the index well below the 90-plus readings that signal a stable economy. Confidence fell after the housing bubble burst and the financial crisis took hold in 2007.
While confidence and spending have been inching back up as business conditions improve, Americans are still feeling cautious, especially when it comes to the job market.
Those saying jobs are ''plentiful'' edged up to 4.9 percent from 4.6 percent in January, while those stating that business conditions are ''good'' rose to 12.4 percent from 11.3 percent. However, the number of respondents who said they expected more jobs to be created in the months ahead slipped to 19.8 percent, from 20.8 percent.
While Americans' assessment of current business conditions ''remains rather weak,'' the Consumer Confidence Index is at a three-year high ''due to growing optimism about the short-term future,'' says Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); JOB CREATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



602 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: In Vancouver, a New Effort to Sell Olympic Condos

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

 BODY:
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- On a typical weekend Larry W. Campbell flies into this city from Ottawa, where he is a Liberal Party senator representing British Columbia, then spends the night at his 600-square-foot condominium at the Olympic Village.
Mr. Campbell, who was the mayor of Vancouver in 2002 when the city won the bid for the 2010 Winter Olympics, said he liked the community's environmentally friendly features, including radiant ceiling heat and toilets flushed with recycled water, as well as the ample public spaces and proximity to the Canada Line rapid transit station. He paid 580,000 Canadian dollars for the unit in 2007.
His enthusiasm for the development is not widely shared, however. A year after the winter games, fewer than half of the 737 condos have been sold -- almost all as preconstruction sales in 2007 -- and the city's taxpayers now owe about 750 million Canadian dollars for a project that was never intended to be a public sector development. (On Tuesday, one Canadian dollar was worth $1.01 American dollars.) 
Last week the city began a fresh effort to sell off the remaining condos, rebranding the cluster of 16 midrise buildings that once housed elite athletes as the Village on False Creek -- a reference to the inlet bordering the development -- and slashing prices by an average of 30 percent. ''It is a lightning rod, politically and journalistically,'' said Bob Rennie, the principal of Rennie Marketing Systems, which is handling the Village on False Creek marketing and sales campaign.
Mr. Campbell, who left office in 2005 to serve in Ottawa, says the development's financial troubles, which are chronicled almost daily in the news media, do not bother him. ''I am part of a new neighborhood in what was industrial wasteland,'' he said. ''It's a legacy.''
But as initiatives to revitalize the development move forward, the debate over what the city did wrong and what it might have done differently shows no signs of abating.
Much of the controversy dates back to 2006, when the city awarded the Olympic Village contract to Millennium Development of Vancouver, largely because the company offered the highest bid at 193 million Canadian dollars. Because the city retained title to the land, the developer was unable to secure financing from Canadian banks, and sought out an American hedge fund, which demanded a loan guarantee from the city. Largely because of the high cost of the land, Millennium, with encouragement from the city, priced most of the condos over 1 million Canadian dollars, well into the ''luxury'' range, a strategy that backfired in the recession.
Two years later, when cost overruns and the financial crisis put Millennium in default to Fortress Investment Group, its American financier, the City Council lent the developer 100 million Canadian dollars. That created a scandal that helped oust the city government, which was led by the Nonpartisan Association party, or N.P.A., and Mayor Sam Sullivan. In 2009 the city took over the entire loan of 750 million Canadian dollars, leading Mayor Gregor Robertson of the rival Vision Vancouver party to announce that ''taxpayers were on the hook'' for the whole project.
Mr. Robertson said in an e-mail that he disagreed with the decisions to guarantee the financing and ''prioritize'' high-end housing. ''The biggest lesson is that the city should not be gambling taxpayers' dollars on luxury real estate,'' he wrote. ''That was a key decision made by the last council and it's what opened the city up to enormous financial risk.''
Suzanne Anton, an N.P.A. councilwoman, said the project's financing problems actually dated back to 2002, when planners decided the village design should shift away from the high-rise towers that dominated the Vancouver skyline -- which would have been cheaper to build and sell or rent. Ms. Anton also said Mr. Robertson should have been the ''chief huckster'' for the village. ''Instead, he's spent two years making negative remarks about the previous council,'' she said.
After the Olympics, the situation continued to deteriorate. When Millennium failed to sell more units, the city and the developer decided in November to hand over the troubled project to Ernst & Young, a receiver now jointly managing the project with city officials.
Cities around the world have encountered difficulties transforming athletes' villages into permanent housing, said Peter Wall, a co-founder of Wall Financial, which is building a 550-unit condo development across the street from the Olympic Village. Nevertheless, Mr. Wall said, development was ''so easy to do'' in Vancouver, a fast-growing city of about 600,000 noted for its urban planning expertise and relatively stable real estate values. He added that his company's development, the Wall Center False Creek, sold out in five months last fall, at prices that started at about 300,000 Canadian dollars for a 518-square-foot one-bedroom.
Mr. Wall, whose company submitted one of the original Olympic Village bids, said Millennium was undercapitalized and that the focus on cutting-edge environmental initiatives drove up costs.
But Brent Toderian, the city's director of planning, said the development, intended as a green demonstration project, has ''transformed city building in every aspect.'' The Olympic Village site, a rare case in which the entire neighborhood has a LEED Platinum rating, features a net-zero building that produces as much as energy as it uses, sites for urban agriculture and a neighborhood energy utility that uses heat recovered from raw sewage to heat all the buildings in the development. And the area around the village is becoming a cultural and residential destination.
As the debate continues, there are signs of movement at the village, where 230 condos are back on the market at prices ranging from 249,000 Canadian dollars for a studio to 1.8 million Canadian dollars for a penthouse. (Sales had been suspended since November).
Mr. Rennie said he expected to have sold 56 units by the end of the month. ''I am being paid to remove the words 'ghost town,' '' he said. He appears to be well on the way to doing that: On Tuesday, he said in a news release that 128 units were sold over the weekend, at an average price of 778,800 Canadian dollars.
About 30 residents have also moved into the project's 252 subsidized rental units, which are located in three buildings managed by the Co-op Housing Federation of B.C.. Half of those units are set aside for middle-income workers like police officers; the other half are for low-income residents.
The city has come under fire for cost overruns in the nonmarket buildings as well as cuts to the number of units. However, Thom Armstrong, the federation's executive director, said the city should be applauded for filling the gap left by federal and provincial housing cutbacks. ''They're doing everything they can and taking hits for it,'' he said.
Will the city recover its money on the project? ''Our target is absolutely to bring it in on balance,'' said Penny Ballem, Vancouver's city manager.
Others are not so certain. ''Olympic Village is going to be a financial failure,'' said Michael Geller, a local developer who predicted losses in the ''hundreds of millions.''
Even so, Mr. Geller said, ''One day, all of these problems will be distant memories, and people who choose to live there will be glad they did.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prices of the former Olympic Village condos, above, have been cut by 30 percent. Left, prospective buyers lined up last week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FARAH NOSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); WINTER OLYMPICS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%); SALES & SELLING (68%); BRANDING (66%); PRICE CUTTING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (50%)

TICKER: FIG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (96%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



603 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: As Boston's Economy Grows, Demand for Rental Units Outpaces Condo Market

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Investments in multifamily rentals have been one of the few hot spots in a sputtering economy, and nowhere is that more evident than in the Boston area, where a high-tech economy is enjoying comparatively strong job growth.
In the last several weeks, city officials have allowed developers of three buildings with nearly 1,000 units to decrease or eliminate condominiums in favor of additional rentals. Over all, the Boston Redevelopment Authority expects construction to start this year on 21 buildings with a total of 1,855 apartments, nearly all rentals, compared with just 600 starts last year. Of those units 830 were once planned as condominiums, said the authority's director, John Palmieri.
''We think we can build this summer after two years when we couldn't,'' said Anthony Pangaro, a principal of Millennium Partners-Boston, which has previously developed luxury condominiums downtown. This month Millennium's $200 million Hayward Place project in the theater district sought city approval to convert from 200 condominiums to 265 units, mostly rentals. 
With rents up to $4 square foot and construction costs down to $500 a square foot, Mr. Pangaro said he could build high-quality apartments that would rent for about $5,000 a month. That gives long-term investors a yield in the mid-single digits, good but far from the 2005 peak of 20 percent for condominiums and about 9 percent for apartments, he said.
A few weeks ago, the city approved a switch to mostly rentals for a $130 million, 345-unit mixed-income complex in Chinatown, said Kirk A. Sykes, its developer and the president of the Urban Strategy America Fund, who expects to break ground early in 2012.
One reason he is moving ahead is that he expects average asking rents to rise 3.5 percent this year, compared with a decline of 6 percent in 2009. A year after the building is completed, he said, he foresees an investment return ''in the high teens.''
''You can't do these projects everywhere,'' Mr. Sykes said.
Boston is drawing attention from investors and developers because of strengthening real estate fundamentals and an economy that is growing because of 21st-century industries like biotechnology, and an enduring foundation of medical and educational institutions.
This year Boston is ranked No. 3 as a strong multifamily rental market, up from No. 8 in 2010, by the National Apartment Index released by Institutional Property Advisors, a Marcus & Millichap company. Boston is ranked after New York and Washington.
Job growth is outpacing other metro areas like San Francisco, which has similar demographics, with 49,000 new positions expected this year in Boston, up from 37,500 in 2010. Especially strong sectors include business consulting, technology, life sciences, health care and higher education. The apartment vacancy rate will fall to 4.5 percent, according to the index.
Even so, since 2007 few new projects have started here or elsewhere in the country. At an average of two years to build, it will be five years until the new supply of rental apartments hits the market. ''That's almost unheard-of in the post-World War II economy,'' said Dan Fasulo, the managing director for research at Real Capital Analytics. Boston's supply has long been constrained by a rigorous permit process, high building costs and a lack of buildable sites.
Given all that, Mr. Fasulo said, it is not surprising that ''there's a race among developers to deliver new product.''
One such project is the $300 million, 500-unit building planned by Equity Residential in a rental complex called West End Apartments it owns adjacent to Massachusetts General Hospital, where the 18,000-person downtown staff will presumably supply a steady stream of tenants.
South of Boston at the Pinehills, a 3,200-acre planned community in the town of Plymouth, home sales and apartment rentals have been strong through the downturn, said Tony Green, a partner with New England Development in the project.
At the Pinehills, 1,411 of an expected 3,052 homes are up and occupied. Half of those are in multifamily buildings, the largest a fully occupied 101-unit complex by AvalonBay Communities, one of nine builders there. AvalonBay is completing construction on a second, 91-apartment complex with the first move-ins expected by May.
With values rebounding there is also heated competition among investors to buy existing buildings, said Thomas M. Alperin, the president of National Development in Newton Lower Falls, Mass., an owner and investor in commercial property in the greater Boston market.
In two recent apartment building sales, the Park Lane Seaport for $193.8 million and Garrison Square in the South End for $90 million, the capitalization rates were about 4.5 percent. ''That's an all-time low that provides an adequate margin to justify new development,'' Mr. Alperin said.
Capitalization rates -- or the first-year yield -- are one measure of the health of the market. Lower cap rates signal that new development offers investors greater returns (about 6.5 percent) than buying existing property, Mr. Alperin said.
Mr. Alperin is in a joint venture with Kensington Properties, a Boston company that owns and invests in multifamily and other commercial properties, to develop a $165 million, 381-unit apartment building downtown, in which the 75 condominiums initially planned have been replaced by rental units.
A combination of economics and demographics is behind the surge in rentals. The pool of probable renters is being fed by people whose houses were foreclosed, have lost a job or taken a new one at a lower salary, or fear residential values will remain flat or fall. Aging baby boomers, fed up with shoveling snow and harsh New England winters, are prime targets for rentals.
Boston also has a pool of 94,000 graduate students who rent. Here and nationwide, home ownership has fallen to 66.5 percent at the end of last year, from a high of 69.2 percent, at the end of 2004, according to the Census Bureau. ''That's huge,'' said William McLaughlin, the executive vice president of development and construction in the Northeast for AvalonBay. ''Across our portfolio most new residents could afford a mortgage but at this time have decided to rent.''
Mr. McLaughlin said AvalonBay planned to start construction this fall on a $90 million, 188-unit apartment building at the Prudential Center in the city's Back Bay, where the company already owns three buildings with a total of 781 apartments. He described the location as ''the best bet in Boston.''
''There's a rush into this space,'' he said, ''and we'll see more conversions into rentals,'' adding that he expected all his competitors' projects would eventually be built.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Green is a partner with New England Development in building the Pinehills, a 3,200-acre planned community in Plymouth, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CITIES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); THEATER (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (60%)

COMPANY: MILLENNIUM PARTNERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



604 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Turning a Rearview Mirror on Kevin Roche

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- Few figures better illustrate the divide between how architects see the world and how the general public does than Kevin Roche.
To many people, Mr. Roche's buildings sum up everything that was wrong with modern architecture in the 1960s and '70s, a period associated with hulking megastructures that seemed completely out of touch with what was once called ''the human scale.'' In this view, the recent demolition of his long-neglected New Haven Veterans Memorial Coliseum, a raw steel and concrete structure with a four-story parking garage on its roof, was a godsend, another nail in the coffin of an era best forgotten.
But a growing number of architects, especially those who were babies when Mr. Roche, now 88, was at the height of his powers, embrace him as a visionary. His blunt urban forms, conceived on the scale of bridges and freeways, suggest an appealing alternative to both commercial kitsch and the kind of flamboyance often used in contemporary architecture to sugarcoat the brutal effects of the global economy. 
''Kevin Roche: Architecture as Environment,'' an exhibition at the Yale School of Architecture here, is the latest attempt to buff his image, and it makes a convincing case for the deep intelligence of much of his work, as well as for its raw power.
Mr. Roche's career was built on solid Modernist foundations. Born in Dublin, he moved to London soon after World War II, where he worked in the office of Maxwell Fry, one of the fathers of British Modernism. In 1948 he left for the United States, where he briefly studied under Mies van der Rohe in Chicago and then spent more than a decade as a designer in the Michigan office of Eero Saarinen, a pillar of postwar corporate architecture and Mr. Roche's most influential mentor.
Mr. Roche got his first major commission, for the Oakland Museum of California, a few months after Saarinen's death of a brain tumor in 1961, and its design, done with Mr. Roche's longtime partner, John Dinkeloo, reflected many of the themes that would come to define his later work. Covering four blocks, the museum was conceived as an urban composition, a series of terraces with low buildings and gardens stepping down a softly sloping artificial hillside built over parking. Its fusion of humans and nature, cars and pedestrians spoke to Mr. Roche's desire to connect his work to the wider urban infrastructure -- the parks, freeways, bridges and tunnels that bind us together.
The same desire was evident a few years later in his most celebrated building, the Ford Foundation headquarters on East 43rd Street in Manhattan. Completed in 1968, the project was organized around a 12-story atrium garden that slopes down from 43rd to 42nd Street, part of a public route that cut right through the building. The offices, set behind glass walls on two sides of this atrium, were supported by massive granite piers and Corten steel beams that evoked conventional bridge construction. Writing in The New York Times, Ada Louise Huxtable called it a ''splendid, shimmering Crystal Palace.''
Mr. Roche followed this triumph with increasingly bold, even brash proposals. In an unbuilt 1969 design for a new Federal Reserve building in the Financial District of Manhattan, for example, he proposed standing a tower on top of four 150-foot-tall columns to create space for a public park underneath and allow unobstructed views from surrounding streets to both the old Italianate Federal Reserve building next-door and a nearby Methodist church.
But it is two other projects, built in the late 1960s and early '70s, that cemented his reputation as an architect of big gestures. The first of these, the Knights of Columbus headquarters in New Haven, looked more like the headquarters for a security agency than the home of a fraternal order. A sullen concrete, steel-and-glass structure anchored at each corner by a cylindrical service tower, it was meant, with its muscular forms, to relate to a nearby freeway.
Completed three years later on a nearby site, the New Haven Veterans Memorial Coliseum applied a similar strategy to even bolder effect. Rather than bury the parking underground or place it on surrounding lots, as you might expect, Mr. Roche turned the typical stadium diagram on its head, placing a four-story parking garage on top of the main event space. Two external ramps, one at each end of the structure, spiraled up to the parking; escalators along the facades suggested a crude version of the Pompidou Center's playful people-moving machines. Like the Pompidou, it echoed the theoretical fantasies of British architects like Cedric Price and the team that formed Archigram, who dreamed in the 1960s of giant mechanized buildings.
For all their bluntness, Mr. Roche's buildings can have their own kind of poetry. The faceted exterior of his One United Nations Plaza (1975), for example, is in one sense a straightforward expression of what's inside: the enormous base reflects the size of the floors needed for offices, the upper portion has the smaller floors of a hotel, while the top is designed to fit a rooftop tennis court. Yet to someone passing by on the street, the meaning of the form is elusive. Its glass surface shifts in unexpected angles as it rises, giving it a mysterious appearance, as if it had been chiseled out of a block of ice.
But the work Mr. Roche created in this period also reflected the end of something. Completed not long after the World Trade Center towers, One United Nations Plaza exudes a confidence in the future that we associate with a triumphant American century. By the time it opened, New York was going bankrupt, and later additions to the project were scaled back. The next decade would be defined not by a faith in the future but by a longing for the past: the nostalgic appeal of Philip Johnson's 1984 AT&T Building and, from the same period, Michael Graves's proposal for a monstrous pseudo-Classical addition to the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Seen from the perspective of today, with the country's infrastructure crumbling and no one, it seems, able to muster the energy to do anything about it, Mr. Roche's optimism seems like something worth revisiting.
''Kevin Roche: Architecture as Environment'' runs through May 6 at the Yale School of Architecture, 180 York Street, New Haven; www.architecture.yale.edu.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ford Foundation headquarters in Manhattan, by Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo and Associates, with its 12-story atrium, was highly praised when it was completed in 1968.(C1)
 Top, One United Nations Plaza in Manhattan has a glass surface that rises at unexpected angles. Left, the Oakland Museum of California. Right, the sprawling New Haven Veterans Memorial Coliseum and, to its right, the Knights of Columbus tower. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN ROCHE JOHN DINKELOO AND ASSOCIATES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); CHILDREN (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



605 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2090 words

HEADLINE: By One Measure, a Solid Deal, if No Guarantee

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
The economics of the N.B.A. dictate that there are only two ways to build an elite team:1. Acquire players who produce above-average value relative to the salaries they are making.
2. Exploit the loopholes in the salary cap so that you spend more money than other teams.This is not merely a rule of thumb; it's a mathematical axiom. At least one of these two things absolutely must be true for a team to be better than its competition.
So when a team makes a franchise-altering trade, as the New York Knicks did last night for Carmelo Anthony, it's worth considering whether it's part of a strategy that allows them to accomplish either of these two objectives.
Let's start with the first question: have the Knicks acquired players who are worth significantly more than the salaries they will make? 
It's actually pretty easy to build an equivalency between salary and value on the court. Collectively, the 30 N.B.A. teams will spend a hair over $2 billion on player salary this year. For this, they will ''purchase'' 1,230 wins -- that is, 41 wins per team, or half of the games in an 82-game season. That means that the price of a win is about $1.63 million dollars.
Yes, it really is (almost) that simple. If we were looking at baseball instead of basketball, the analysis would be more complicated, because even a team full of players making the league minimum salary -- what stat geeks like me refer to as replacement-level players -- would probably luck its way into winning about 50 ballgames. Basketball, however, is much less forgiving of mediocrity, and a roster full of 12-players signed from the D-League would have trouble winning any games at all. (Consider that the Cleveland Cavaliers -- who are on pace to win just 15 games this season -- nevertheless have a couple of decent players like Antawn Jamison and Mo Williams.)
The other thing we need is an estimate of how many wins any given player's contributions are worth on the court. There are several different statistical systems that do this, each of which have their detractors. But my favorite is probably the Estimated Wins Added statistic developed by ESPN's John Hollinger.
Mr. Hollinger's statistic, for instance, estimates that Amar'e Stoudemire has produced 12.0 wins for the Knicks thus far this season. Projected over the full, 82-game year -- and assuming that Stoudemire's performance remains constant -- that works out to 18.2 wins. At a value of $1.63 million per win, that means that Stoudemire will produce the equivalent of almost $30 million in value to the Knicks this season. Since he is ''only'' making $16.5 million this year, however, that means that Stoudemire has so far produced a strong return on investment for the team. (Although note that Stoudemire's salary will increase in subsequent seasons while his performance may decline.)
Stoudemire, however, is not the only Knick who scored well by this metric. So did three of the players they traded: Wilson Chandler, Raymond Felton, and Danilo Gallinari. All are roughly league-average players, but they are comparatively cheap -- Chandler, for instance, is making just $2.1 million this season, although he was due for a raise next year. Mitigating against this is that the Knicks also traded another player, Eddy Curry, who was making $11 million to sit on the bench.
Here, by contrast, are the players whom the Knicks acquired. In general, they are worth about what they are being paid:
Anthony does come out with a positive valuation -- about $5.7 million in excess value. But keep in mind that there are significant debates about what he is worth -- and although I tend to side with Mr. Hollinger's statistics, they are more optimistic about Anthony than most other systems. Also, as part of the deal, Anthony will sign an extension that will pay him an average of $21.7 million over three years -- almost exactly the same as the $22.8 million that Mr. Hollinger's numbers say he is worth this season.
So, is Anthony a 'superstar'? That is a matter of semantics, of course. But one reasonably meaty way to define a superstar in the N.B.A. is this: a player who is worth significantly more than the maximum salary, which depending on the circumstances is usually on the order of $20 million per year for a veteran player. A player that contributed the equivalent of $25 million to his team's performance, for instance, would unambiguously be worth more than the veteran maximum contract and would be wholly deserving of the superstar label.
Very few players in the NBA, however, meet this definition. If we average the players' Estimated Wins Added over the past 3 seasons (including this one, with current totals extrapolated out over 82-games), and then convert it to cash at our $1.63 million exchange rate, we find that just 10 players qualify: LeBron James, Dwyane Wade, Dwight Howard, Kevin Durant, Chris Paul, Kobe Bryant, Blake Griffin (based solely on his performance this year since he is a rookie), Dirk Nowitzki, Pau Gasol and Tim Duncan.
The list, of course, would change somewhat if we were projecting performance over the next three years, rather than looking at it retrospectively: Chicago's Derrick Rose and Oklahoma City's Russell Westbrook would probably need to be part of the group, for instance, while veterans like Duncan and Nowitzki would drop off the list. Nevertheless, it is a select group; probably not more than a dozen players at any given time are worth significantly more than the maximum salary.
There is also another group of players who are valued at somewhere between $20 and $25 million per year -- that is, they are deserving of the maximum salary, but do not produce a significant return above and beyond it. Their teams still need to fill out their rosters with cost-effective players to win a championship with them, or to spend significantly more than the league's 'soft' salary cap of about $58 million. (The Los Angeles Lakers, for instance -- although they do have two superstars -- also have a payroll of about $92 million by having exploited various loopholes in the league's salary structure, which would be worth the equivalent of 56 wins even if all players were just average from a cost-efficiency standpoint.)
Among the players in this latter group are Anthony and Stoudemire (who is playing better this year than in the past couple and may revert to the mean some as he ages). They are very good players, but they're in a different league from those like Orlando's Dwight Howard -- who is worth about $34 million per year -- or Miami's LeBron James, who is worth $47 million.
The Knicks now have two of these players -- but not a whole lot else. They have the point guard Chauncey Billups, but he is worth roughly the $14.2 million that he would be due to make next year if the Knicks pick up his option and not more. They do also have the rookie Landry Fields, a second-round draft pick who is owed only $788,872 next year but who is worth many times that; he isn't the best Knick, but from an economic standpoint, he is probably the most valuable one. Beyond that, however, the roster is now very thin.
If the Knicks pick up the options on Billups and Toney Douglas, and Ronny Turiaf accepts his player option, they would have nine players under contract for next season for a collective $62 million, accounting for the raise that Anthony will receive. And those players would be worth 51 wins according to Mr. Hollinger's statistic assuming that they matched their performance from this year -- an assumption that is arguably optimistic since the Knicks have suddenly gone from being a young club to a middle-aged one and since these players have generally avoided injury this year.
A team winning 51 games would have been the No. 4 seed in the Eastern Conference in each of the past three seasons. By the standard of recent Knicks seasons, that would count as quite a lot of progress -- the Knicks would host a playoff series at Madison Square Garden -- but they would be underdogs to advance past the second round.
And one thing the Knicks will not have is a whole lot of flexibility to improve their roster further. The $62 million that they will owe to these nine players is close to the $58 million salary cap from this season -- and that cap may well decrease if and when the league and its players sign a new collective-bargaining agreement this summer. Nor, other than Fields -- who would be hard to improve upon from an efficiency standpoint -- do the Knicks have much in the way of either draft picks or appealing young players, since they traded so many away in the deals with Denver and Minnesota.
So the lineup that you'll see when Anthony makes his debut at the Garden on Wednesday is basically the one you'll get for the next year and a half. The Knicks might have some upside if Stoudemire, Anthony and Billups gel especially well together, if they get a steal with their first-round draft pick, or if it's a down year for the other teams in the conference. But they are very probably not a championship-caliber team as currently constructed.
What about 2012-13? That winter, several star players -- including Dwight Howard, Chris Paul and Deron Williams -- will become available. The Knicks, meanwhile, will be obligated to only three players -- Anthony, Stoudemire and Renaldo Balkman, who will make about $44 million between them. Depending on how the collective-bargaining agreement turns out, they might be able to afford one of them.
But that team, also, could be a step behind the best in the league. Collectively, Stoudemire, Anthony and Paul have produced an average of 47 wins between them, according to Mr. Hollinger's statistic.
Getting 47 wins out of just three players gives a team a huge leg up if it can surround them with any sort of talent at all. But the Knicks might have a lot of trouble doing so. Signing a player like Paul or Howard would almost certainly squeeze the salary cap down to the last penny, if it could be accomplished in the first place. Fields, for instance, will be a restricted free agent after 2011-12 and the Knicks probably could not keep him if they were clearing space to sign a player like Paul instead.
It's tempting to cite the Miami Heat as a favorable comparison; they are succeeding with a roster of three stars and nine scrubs. The nine players who fill out Miami's roster, other than LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh have combined to produce negative value this season by Mr. Hollinger's numbers.
James, Wade and Bosh, however, have combined to produce an average of 69 wins per season over the last three years, according to Mr. Hollinger (they are somewhat underachieving this year), as compared to 47 for the Knicks' would-be Big Three.
None of this means that the Knicks will be unwatchable. Far from it, they will be one of the most exciting teams in the league, which is one of the reasons that the share price for MSG group is trending upward. And merely good teams sometimes find ways to back into having great seasons.
What the Knicks really needed to do, however, was to find some better way to exploit the assets that were already on their roster. The salary cap is relatively permissive about allowing teams to re-sign their own players, at least under the current rules. So, although players like Chandler, Gallinari and Randolph would have become more expensive after their current deals expired, the Knicks could hold onto them simply by spending well in excess of the 'soft' cap.
Instead, the Knicks seem to have put themselves into a situation where, on the one hand, the players on the roster aren't quite good enough to contend for a title, but on the other, they have little flexibility to add others without making significant sacrifices.
The trade is being billed as a high-risk move. But in some ways it is just the opposite, seeming to lock the Knicks in to roughly 50 wins over the next handful of seasons -- not a lot more, not a lot less -- under most of the more realistic scenarios.
What might the Knicks have done differently? One thing might have been to insist that the Nuggets' center, Nene, was among the bounty of players they were receiving from Denver. A starting five of Billups, Fields, Anthony, Stoudemire and Nene could well be a 60-win team, even with almost no depth.
No, the Nuggets might not have made the trade. But no one was forcing the Knicks to make their deal either. And the trade that they did make was extravagant from the perspective of opportunity cost.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An estimate of players' worth suggests that the Knicks are getting value from Landry Fields, left, and Amar'e Stoudemire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (75%) OHIO, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



606 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Purchase Of Lehman Is Upheld

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Barclays Capital's purchase of a large portion of Lehman Brothers, only days after the American investment bank filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, was acceptable, the judge overseeing Lehman's Chapter 11 case ruled on Tuesday evening.
The 103-page decision byJudge James M. Peck of the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan follows a bitter fight between Barclays of Britain and the Lehman estate, which is selling off the firm's remaining assets to pay creditors. 
Lawyers for the Lehman estate claimed that Barclays had improperly reaped an $11 billion windfall from the deal by secretly negotiating a discount for Lehman's North American operations.But Judge Peck disagreed, writing that the speed of Lehman's bankruptcy filing and the urgent need to sell the failed firm's assets overrode what he acknowledged were flaws in the sales process.
''The court was not deceived in a manner that should now be permitted to upset the integrity of the sale order,'' he wrote. Referring to the week of the bankruptcy, he wrote, ''The sale process may have been imperfect, but it was still adequate under the exceptional circumstances of Lehman Week.''
Judge Peck also rejected a separate claim by a federal trustee assigned to the Lehman case that Barclays owed his office about $7 billion.
''We are pleased with the court's decision,'' a Barclays spokesman said in an e-mailed statement. A Lehman spokeswoman said Tuesday that the estate was studying the ruling.
The months-long trial over Lehman's claims brought back to the fore the frenzy that accompanied the Sept. 15 bankruptcy filing by the investment bank at the height of the financial crisis. Several prominent Lehman executives, including its former president, Herbert H. McDade III, and its former chief financial officer, Ian T. Lowitt, took the stand to address questions about the rushed sales process.
Lehman sought to amend the sales order that Judge Peck had approved just days after the investment bank filed for bankruptcy. At the heart of its legal argument was what the estate contended was a $5 billion discount that Lehman executives had given to Barclays in the midst of completing the sale.
Barclays has argued that it was the only bidder for the Lehman business, and the failure to quickly gain approval of its offer would have led to the loss of thousands of jobs. The firm also argued that several of Lehman's own advisers, including its chief lawyer, Harvey R. Miller of the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges, had supported the sale.
Barclays cited e-mails from two other advisers, Lazard and the consulting firm Alvarez & Marsal, that the British bank said reflected knowledge of a significant discount on the Lehman assets.
Barclays has also insisted that it is actually owed $3 billion as part of the deal.
While Judge Peck acknowledged that Barclays appeared to have benefited from a $5 billion discount on the value of its newly purchased assets, those new facts ''do not change the essence of the approval process and would not have made any difference in the court's ruling.''
One of the issues addressed in the ruling was a clarification letter outlining various assets to be included in the Barclays purchase. Judge Peck never approved the clarification letter and wrote that the way the letter had been handled ''may have deviated'' from normal bankruptcy procedure. But he still ruled that both parties had agreed to the letter and had treated it as binding.
''Such a failure does not render the clarification letter unenforceable in this instance because the parties themselves have acted in reliance upon the clarification letter and have treated the document as enforceable,'' he wrote.
Ruling on Lehman Asset Sale to Barclays
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUDGES (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); BARCLAYS PLC (92%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (59%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (57%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



607 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Shaved Beef Comes Close To Taking On Anything

BYLINE: By JANE SIGAL

 BODY:
YOU turn up the flame under a sizzling pan and sear steak for just a minute or two, barely cooking it before you sit down. The beef is remarkably tender. You are eating:
A. Expensive rib-eye from the nicely marbled rib section; or
B. Cheap, lean, chewy top round, from the hard-working upper leg?
It's a trick question, because if the meat is shaved steak -- handkerchief-thin slices of beef cut across the grain -- it can come from any part of the steer and still be tender.
''All cuts become almost indistinguishable when you slice them so thinly,'' said Jake Dickson, the owner of Dickson's Farmstand Meats in Chelsea Market, where shaved top or bottom round is sold as ''sandwich steak'' for a high-minded Philly cheese steak. Compared with $25 a pound for boneless New York strip, Dickson's shaved steak is a bargain at $9 a pound. It is even more affordable in local supermarkets, where the same amount goes for around $5 or $6 a pound. 
Shaved steak is often marketed under the name of one of the dishes it's traditionally used in, which gives an idea of its versatility and broad fan base. At Italian stores, it's ''beef for braciole'' or ''carpaccio.'' In German butchers' shops it's ''rouladen,'' beef rolled around bacon, pickles and onion. At Korean markets, it's ''bulgogi,'' for barbecue. At Japanese stores, it's ''sukiyaki-style,'' for hot pots, or ''shabu-shabu'' as it is called at Fleisher's Grass-Fed and Organic Meats in Kingston, N.Y. Vietnamese find ''pho'' sold for their traditional soup.
Since a slicer or band saw can cut any meat thin, shaved beef can cost as much as the most expensive cut or even slightly more if it's sliced to order. But there's no need for such extravagance, and most sliced steak comes from the round. A home cook can save even more money and control quality by freezing a whole piece of round, defrosting it lightly and slicing it with a very sharp knife. That is a pain, though.
''Think of slicing a pound of prosciutto,'' said Champe Speidel, the chef and butcher and an owner of the restaurant Persimmon, in Bristol, R.I., and the artisan butcher's shop Persimmon Provisions in Barrington, R.I. ''The time adds up fast.''
That's why most supermarkets buy it already sliced. Mr. Speidel said that meat-department managers often purchase shaved steak in modified atmosphere packaging, plastic tubs filled with nitrogen, carbon dioxide or carbon monoxide, which keeps the slices rosy red.
Wherever the beef comes from and whatever the cut, when sliced between
1/16- and 1/8-inch thick it is economical because a little looks like a lot. That feeling of abundance also makes it a good choice for people who, for one reason or another, are trying to eat less red meat.
And as Mr. Dickson pointed out, shaved steak is an unintimidating cut for people who aren't entirely comfortable at the stove. Precision timing is not required. The meat is going to cook quickly, and whether it ends up medium or well done it will still be tender.
''Sometimes people don't think they can cook a thick steak,'' he said. ''But nobody says, 'I can't cook that.' '' Shaved steak, he said, is ''foolproof.''
For that reason, perhaps, it has been the kitchen training wheels for many chefs, though most of them would never think of putting it on the menu.
Hugue Dufour, the chef and owner of M. Wells in Long Island City, Queens, said that when he was growing up in Alma, Quebec, 300 miles north of Montreal, shaved steak fondue was the best treat he could have. He remembered dipping slices of the meat into the steaming onion soup his mother prepared with beef broth made from Oxo cubes. The second day, she would add Gruyere toasts to the broth, which had been enriched with the juices from the steak, and serve gratineed onion soup.
Later, beef fondue was the first dinner he made with friends as a teenager. ''It made us feel grown up, doing adult things,'' Mr. Dufour said, ''even if it was simple.''
In Philadelphia, the chef Marc Vetri, of the restaurants Vetri, Osteria and Amis, was raised on another down-to-earth version of shaved steak, the cheese steak. ''Most Sundays we'd go down to my grandmother's house, six blocks from the steak sandwich place. Once a month we'd walk over to Pat's King of Steaks. It was a special day.''
When he was old enough to cook at the stove, he made his own steak sandwiches, using Steak-umm, the chopped, shaped and frozen version of shaved steak. ''I loved Steak-umm when I was 11 or 12 years old,'' he said. But he would not countenance a cheese steak adaptation on any of his restaurants' menus. ''I'm a traditionalist,'' he said. ''I don't want to mess with it.''
Marco Canora, an owner of Hearth and the two Terroir wine bars in Manhattan, used to serve beef in brodo when he was the chef at Insieme in Midtown. ''The thinly sliced beef looks so beautiful raw,'' he said. ''Then pouring hot consomme over the top lightly poaches it.''
At Bubby's in TriBeCa, Ron Silver buys a whole steer every week from Fleisher's, and it's his job to figure out what to do with everything from the tongue to the tail. Depending on the time of year, the top round might be turned into shaved steak. ''I'll ask myself, 'Is it cheese steak season or beef stew season?' '' Mr. Silver said.
Shaved steak is not a staple of Mexican cuisine. Most cooks prefer the slightly thicker beef milanesa cut, similar to minute steak. But Memo Pinedo, the proprietor of a restaurant and a food truck in Houston, both called Jarro Cafe, appreciates Angus beef sliced from sirloin for his tacos de bistec. It's so thin he can cook it in steam coming off a skillet of sizzling onions, tomatoes and jalapenos. ''It's the most juicy meat and the most tender,'' he said. ''It's hard to find in Houston. I have to slice it myself.''
At Takashi, a Japanese raw beef and Korean-style barbecue restaurant in the West Village, Takashi Inoue treats 10 or so cuts of very thinly sliced beef like a delicacy, showing that, depending on the thickness and cut of meat, you will taste a difference.
''The rib-eye is the thinnest because I want people to feel the melt,'' he said. ''You don't even have to chew. The short rib and skirt steak have more texture, and the texture should be enjoyed.''
But few chefs etherealize shaved steak.
''I do love it,'' said Mr. Silver, of Bubby's. ''In the roulette wheel of stuff I like to eat, it makes a trashy, greasy sandwich that hits the spot.''
Recipe: Mexican-Style Pepper Steak
Adapted from Memo Pinedo, Jarro Cafe, Houston
Time: 20 minutes
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, halved and sliced
2 medium Roma tomatoes, coarsely chopped
1 medium red bell pepper, cut into julienne strips
4 jalapeno or habanero chilies, sliced crosswise with seeds
Kosher salt and black pepper
1 cup unsalted chicken broth
8 fresh bay leaves
1 pound shaved beefsteak
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro.
1. In each of 2 large skillets, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil over medium-high heat and add half of the onion, tomatoes, bell pepper and chilies, season with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring, until slightly softened, about 2 minutes.
2. Add half of the broth and bay leaves to each skillet and bring to a simmer. Lay beef slices over top, season with salt and pepper and cook, turning beef once, until it loses its pink color, about 3 minutes total. Transfer meat to a platter or plates. Simmer pan juices until slightly thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Spoon vegetables and juices over the beef and sprinkle with cilantro.
Yield: 4 servings.
Recipe: Glazed Beef-and-Scallion Rolls
Adapted from Takashi Inoue, Takashi restaurant, Manhattan
Time: 30 minutes
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup orange marmalade
2 tablespoons light brown sugar
2 tablespoons grated garlic
2 tablespoons Asian sesame oil
1 1/2 tablespoons white sesame seeds
1/2 tablespoon black pepper
1/2 tablespoon cayenne pepper
24 thin scallions, tops and bottoms trimmed
24 thin asparagus spears, bottoms trimmed
1 pound shaved beefsteak
Canola oil.
1. In a large shallow baking dish, whisk the soy sauce with the marmalade, brown sugar, garlic, sesame oil, sesame seeds, pepper and cayenne powder.
2. Bring a large skillet of water to a boil. Add the scallions and cook until bright green, about 30 seconds. Transfer to a plate and pat dry. Add the asparagus and cook until bright green, about 1 minute; transfer to plate and pat dry.
3. Lay a slice of beef on a work surface. Arrange a scallion and an asparagus spear crosswise at a short end and roll up. Add to soy sauce glaze and turn to coat. Repeat with remaining beef rolls.
4. Brush a grill pan with canola oil and heat over high heat until smoking. Working in batches, cook beef rolls until nicely charred all over, about 15 seconds per side. Transfer to a platter or plates.
Yield: 4 servings.
Recipe: Beef Involtini With Grape Tomato Sauce
Time: 1 hour
4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
2 anchovy fillets, chopped
4 fat garlic cloves, 2 sliced, 2 minced
1 pint grape tomatoes, halved lengthwise
1 cup canned crushed tomatoes
Kosher salt and black pepper
1 tablespoon minced sage
1 tablespoon minced rosemary
1 pound shaved beefsteak
2 tablespoons chopped parsley.
Boiled fettuccine, for serving.
1. In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium heat. Add anchovies and stir until they begin to dissolve. Add sliced garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add grape tomatoes and crushed tomatoes, and season with salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer and cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, until thickened, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat.
2. Meanwhile, mix sage, rosemary and minced garlic in a small bowl. Lay a slice of beef on a work surface. Sprinkle a little herb mixture on top, and season with salt and pepper. Starting with a short end, roll up, tucking in sides; transfer to a large plate. Repeat with remaining meat.
3. In another skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium-high heat. Season meat rolls with salt and pepper. Working in batches, brown them all over, about 30 seconds per side; transfer to tomato sauce.
4. Stir parsley into sauce and cook over medium heat until involtini are heated through, 2 to 3 minutes. Spoon involtini and sauce into a shallow bowl or plates, and serve with fettuccine.
Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VERSATILE: Clockwise from above, Mexican-style pepper steak at Jarro Cafe in Houston
Memo Pinedo of Jarro slicing beef
beef involtini
and beef-and-scallion rolls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MELINA HAMMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); MEATS (89%); MEAT STORES (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); FOOD PACKAGING (73%); CARBON MONOXIDE (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011



608 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: New Mexico's Bet On Space Tourism Stays Earthbound

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES, N.M -- Somewhere off a dusty road in southern New Mexico sits a hulking horseshoe-crab-shaped structure and a two-mile-long slab of concrete flanked by mesas and mountains.
Welcome to Spaceport America, the country's first facility built specifically for commercial space travel -- an endeavor that the state envisioned as the epicenter of a fledgling industry where tourists would pay large sums to take suborbital flights into space. 
These days, though, after years of planning and debate, New Mexico's grand ambitions for Spaceport have come down to earth, its future entwined with the state's struggling economy. Though more than 400 people have put down flight deposits totaling more than $55 million, it is still not exactly clear when the first flight will launch.
In her first two months in office, Gov. Susana Martinez removed the Spaceport's supervising board, pushed out its executive director and began a review of the project's finances, saying the Spaceport needed more robust private investment.
Ms. Martinez, a Republican, was elected on a promise of paring government, and the state's revenue windfall is long gone. The governor has since made a point of stating her support for the project, and this month she appointed a new board, including three former members and Sid Gutierrez, a former astronaut. But she has also vowed to privatize the Spaceport, saying taxpayers have already paid their fair share.
''The Spaceport is part of the plan for economic development in New Mexico, and the voters made it clear they support it,'' Ms. Martinez said in a recent interview. ''We want to be a leader in space exploration, but we want to do it within our budget.''
The dream of a commercial spaceport has been around for years in New Mexico, which has long had a love affair with aerospace and aliens. Back in 2006, flush with oil and gas revenue, the Legislature, pushed by Gov. Bill Richardson, approved $132 million to build the Spaceport.
Standing to reap the benefits if the project succeeds, voters in Dona Ana and Sierra Counties passed a quarter-cent sales tax, which will provide the remaining money needed for construction.
But New Mexico has since taken on a $450 million deficit. The ambitious project was budgeted at about $209 million, but a second runway could be needed to expand commercial operations. Ms. Martinez has made it clear she wants any additional financing for the Spaceport to come from private industry.
''That's going to be our big push right now,'' she said.
Supporters of the project say the Spaceport could create hundreds of jobs and draw wealthy tourists. But some here question the new governor's commitment to see it through.
''Let's face it -- privatizing the Spaceport means selling it off and trying to remove any risk to the state,'' said Rick Homans, who was appointed by Mr. Richardson as the facility's executive director until Ms. Martinez asked him to step down. ''The message would be that the state is not committed long term, and the new industry will look at other states where they can find a fully engaged partner.''
New Mexico is not the only entity heavily invested. Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic has signed on to be the facility's anchor tenant for 20 years and has dedicated hundreds of millions of dollars toward developing the technology.
In 2005, amid considerable fanfare, Virgin began taking reservations for spaceflights -- a ticket costs $200,000. Construction of the 110,000-square-foot hangar and terminal is nearing completion. Virgin Galactic's chief executive and president, George Whitesides, said in a recent interview that the company expected to launch commercial flights within two years.
Its engineers are working to finish the rocket engine that will power the small spaceship, Mr. Whitesides said.
Virgin estimates each flight will take roughly two and a half hours -- including four minutes in actual space and the iconic view of Earth from outside its atmosphere.
Mr. Whitesides predicted that the spectacle of the rich and famous being rocketed into space will lure much needed work here, and Virgin is looking at building a luxury hotel nearby.
''Clearly, the state's economy has changed. That said, most of the money has either already been allocated or spent on the project,'' said Mr. Whitesides, a former chief of staff for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ''I really do think this is a case where the investment has been made, and a relatively small expenditure will open the possibility for tremendous growth in New Mexico.''
In nearby Truth or Consequences, a quirky art town named for the long-running game show, residents have mixed, though curious, thoughts about space travel in their backyard.
''I'm for the Spaceport,'' said Cherrill Sullivan, who owns a western clothing shop here. ''We need jobs bad.''
A local hair stylist, Susan Kopet, shook her head at the notion of the Spaceport's providing an economic boon for the area.
''I pay taxes on it, but I don't have the money to go up in space,'' Ms. Kopet said. ''I can think of a lot better ways to spend millions of dollars.''
A former Spaceport board member, D. Kent Evans, a supporter of Ms. Martinez, finds himself reassuring locals about the project.
''I just want it to be successful,'' Mr. Evans said. ''I tell people this is going to be one of the best decisions they ever made.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Mexico envisioned Spaceport America as the center of a fledgling industry where tourists would pay large sums to take suborbital flights. SpaceShipOne came in for a landing in 2004 in Mojave, Calif. Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic will be the spaceport's anchor tenant for 20 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JIM CAMPBELL) (A16)
 Construction of Spaceport America's 110,000-square-foot hangar and terminal is nearing completion in southern New Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) MAP: It is still not exactly clear when the first flight will launch from Spaceport America, in the Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico. (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SALES TAX (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); JOB CREATION (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: SUSANA MARTINEZ (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); RICHARD BRANSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



609 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; DEALBOOK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Joseph H. Flom, Pioneering Lawyer in Mergers and Acquisitions, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Joseph H. Flom, a pioneering corporate lawyer who helped build Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom into one of the nation's leading law firms, died on Wednesday morning in Manhattan. He was 87.
The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the law firm said. He had homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.
Mr. Flom, who rose to prominence in the 1960s as an adviser in proxy battles over control of public companies, became known as one of the pre-eminent lawyers involved in the costly and risky business of corporate mergers and acquisitions. Other companies often hired his firm simply to ensure that Mr. Flom and his team could not oppose them.
''Mr. Flom participated, on one side or the other, in virtually every major takeover battle of the last 20 years,'' the author John Taylor wrote in The New York Times in 1994. 
In 1985 alone, Mr. Flom orchestrated Ronald Perelman's $2.7 billion takeover of Revlon and ABC's $3.5 billion sale to Capital Cities. Twenty-three years later he represented Anheuser-Busch in a $52 billion takeover by InBev.
He counseled aggressive suitors, among them the corporate raiders James Goldsmith in his run at Crown Zellerbach and T. Boone Pickens in his bid for Unocal. And he erected defenses against hostile takeovers for Federated Department Stores and Chemical Bank.
As Skadden's power grew, Mr. Flom also helped shape the giant law firm model that now dominates corporate law: a high-powered collection of specialists, spread out in offices across the country and around the globe.
Joseph Harold Flom was born in Baltimore on Dec. 21, 1923, and grew up in Brooklyn, the son of Itzak Flom, a labor organizer in the Manhattan garment district, and the former Fannie Hirsch. Mr. Flom once wrote that he had wanted to go to law school from the age of 6.
After graduating from Townsend Harris High School in Manhattan, he attended night school for two years at City College before enlisting in the Army in World War II.
He never graduated from college, but Harvard Law School admitted him after he completed military service, and he earned a law degree in 1948. At Harvard he was an editor of The Harvard Law Review.
After law school, by his account, many firms turned him down for a job because he was Jewish, but a small new firm in Manhattan run by Marshall Skadden, Leslie Arps and John Slate took him on. He became a partner in 1954 and within a few years effectively took over leadership.
In a 1994 book, ''Skadden: Power, Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire,'' the journalist Lincoln Caplan portrayed Mr. Flom as a scrappy, sometimes rough-edged iconoclast who retained an outsider's sense of himself in the white-shoe world of corporate law.
''We've got to show the bastards that you don't have to be born into it,'' Mr. Caplan quoted him telling his colleagues. Skadden is now one of the largest law firms in the world, with annual revenue exceeding $2 billion and about 2,000 lawyers in 24 offices in the United States and abroad. Mr. Flom was the last surviving original principal of the firm.
Malcolm Gladwell devoted a chapter to Mr. Flom in his book ''Outliers: The Story of Success,'' (Little, Brown, 2008), crediting him with building out and diversifying the firm and anticipating the rise of mergers and acquisitions as a specialty. ''For 20 years, he perfected his craft at Skadden,'' Mr. Gladwell wrote. ''Then the world changed and he was ready.''
In the 1960s Mr. Flom began making his mark in corporate mergers and acquisitions, the hostile takeover in particular. Lawyers for major corporations tended to look down on that area of law, but as more companies began to consider growth by acquisition, they bypassed their own legal advisers and turned to young Turks like Mr. Flom at Skadden and Martin Lipton of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
The watershed moment may have come in 1973, when the International Nickel Company of Canada made a hostile bid for ESB Incorporated. Morgan Stanley & Company, the investment bank advising International Nickel, proposed that the company hire Skadden to do the deal. Chosen because of his experience in the specialty, a rarity then, Mr. Flom commanded a team that helped Inco fend off a rival bid by United Aircraft. Inco eventually won ESB for $224 million.
In 1982 Mr. Flom represented the Allied Corporation in its acquisition of Bendix, a fiercely fought $1.96 billion transaction that prompted calls for new federal regulations governing mergers and acquisitions to protect shareholders' interests and guard against concentrations of corporate power.
Some argued that the mergers were hurting the nation's economy by transferring wealth from employees to bondholders and bankers, and diverting corporate funds from research and development. Mr. Flom, however, was skeptical about the need for changes.
''Shareholders already have a referendum,'' he told The New York Times in 1982. ''If they don't like the results, they can fire the management, or sell their stock. The system, with all of its problems, is working. There's no justification for questions about economic concentration.''
Mr. Flom developed a reputation for driving his staff. Lawyers would work around the clock for days to get deals done. (Skadden continues to be regarded as an aggressive, high-pressure firm that commands high fees.)
Concerned that Skadden could become a boutique law firm focused primarily on mergers and acquisitions, Mr. Flom headed an effort to expand into other areas, like real estate, product liability and energy.
To accomplish that, Skadden solicited retainer fees from client corporations that wanted to have the firm on call for mergers and acquisitions work. The clients were then offered the chance to use the retainer fees as credit toward other legal services. (Some said they were pressured into accepting the credits.) The strategy helped convert Skadden into the firm that Mr. Flom had envisioned: not a single expert boutique but a collection of them, offering a range of high-value specialized services to corporate clients.
As a philanthropist, Mr. Flom gave millions of dollars to Harvard Law School, where an endowed professorship bears his name. In November 2005, he and the Milton Petrie Foundation donated $10 million to the school for a center that would study legal issues related to biotechnology and health policy.
He also supported programs at City College of New York; pledged to make sure that college tuition would be covered for a class of 80 Harlem sixth-grade students whom he ''adopted'' in 1983; and supported Urban America, a development fund that invests in depressed areas. He served as a trustee of the New York University Medical Center and Barnard College and as the mayor's representative on the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
At his firm he helped establish the Skadden Fellowship program, which gives money to recent law school graduates involved in public interest projects.
Mr. Flom's first wife, the former Claire Cohen, died in 2007. His survivors include his wife, Judi Sorensen Flom; two sons by his first marriage, Jason and Peter Flom; his first wife's daughter by an earlier marriage, Nancy Laing; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
His colleagues, in interviews, said that what set Mr. Flom apart was his willingness to step back and let others work on important corporate transactions. When Skadden advised a special committee of RJR Nabisco in 1988 in the $25 billion leveraged buyout of the company by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, for example, he was only indirectly involved, he said; younger partners took the lead. The transaction was the subject of the book ''Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco'' (Harper & Row, 1990) by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar.
In his 1994 book on Skadden, Mr. Caplan described Skadden lawyers in thrall to Mr. Flom as they would try to decode his doodles and cryptic remarks, like ''They've taken their best shot, and it was a balloon with no air in it,'' and ''Their phone is off the hook, and no conversation is going to put it back on.''
At the height of the mergers and acquisitions wave in the 1980s, Mr. Flom was aware of the value of maintaining good public relations during a takeover, whether to reassure employees or stockholders. But he also sensed the limits of public relations at a time when most of a company's shares were in the hands of institutions and arbitrageurs.
''There's no case in American corporate history that I'm aware of where any major corporation was or was not taken over because the stockholders were told it was a good or bad idea,'' he said in 1989. ''P.R. can't change the dynamics of the marketplace.''
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Correction: February 25, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Thursday about the corporate lawyer Joseph H. Flom misstated the location of Townsend Harris High School when he graduated, in 1940. The school, now in Queens, was in Manhattan at that time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph H. Flom in 1982, and appearing in 2003 with Ronald O. Perelman, the executive who called on Mr. Flom for help in acquiring Revlon in 1985, a deal worth $2.7 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY, LEFT, NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE, ROB RICH/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TAKEOVERS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); MERGERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); WRITERS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMIES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); RETAILERS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (96%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (55%); MACY'S INC (54%); CHEMICAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (55%); ABI (BRU) (55%); M (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011



610 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: The Many Qaddafis

BYLINE: By DIRK VANDEWALLE. 
Dirk Vandewalle, an associate professor of government at Dartmouth, is the author of ''Modern Libya.''

 BODY:
Hanover, N.H.
TWO images serve as bookends to the four-decades-old rule of Libya's ruler, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. The first is the picture taken a few days after the Sept. 1, 1969, coup that brought him to power: it shows a handsome, pencil-thin revolutionary in military uniform, kneeling in the desert sand to pray. The other was taken two days ago: Colonel Qaddafi in bedouin garb as an uprising sparked by the arrest of a human rights lawyer in Benghazi continued to overtake the country, defiantly and incoherently defending his self-styled revolution, vowing to struggle on until death.
Between those two shots lie 42 years of iron-fisted rule, and thousands of photos that show him slowly turning from a young firebrand to a mastermind of international terrorism; from ambitious new ruler, bent on restoring the grandeur of Arab nationalism after the death of his hero President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt to international pariah; from would-be philosopher to clownish figure whose demagoguery was derided by friend and foe alike. And, finally, after years of sanctions by the United States and the international community, a much older but equally combative Colonel Qaddafi was seemingly rehabilitated by the West. 
After the 1969 revolution, Western leaders initially believed that the new Libyan regime would follow in the kingdom's footsteps, with a pro-Western bent to its policies. It quickly became clear, however, that Colonel Qaddafi was no ordinary Arab leader who would live by the conventions of international behavior or decorum.
Once Colonel Qaddafi assumed power, his message was unambiguous: he cast himself and Libya as a bulwark against what he perceived as the predations of the West. The brutality of the Italian colonial period -- which had lasted from 1911 through 1943 and led to the deaths of perhaps half of the population of Libya's eastern province -- would become for him an enduring obsession. The Italians had destroyed whatever embryonic bureaucratic and administrative structures had been in place before they invaded, so Libya had few elements of modern statehood. And the monarchy -- headed by King Idris I, who showed no love for ruling a unified Libya -- had for almost 20 years largely left matters as they were when the Italians left.
What was not clear at the start of the 1969 revolution was how tortuous Colonel Qaddafi's path would become. Fueled by ample petrodollars, he would descend into an increasingly self-contained and self-reverential world, a closed system fed and reinforced by the sycophancy that always surrounds dictators and that brooks no opposition.
In the early 1970s, by nationalizing the country's oil companies, Colonel Qaddafi provided himself with a healthy dose of legitimacy at home, but also with increasing suspicion from the West. In the mid-'70s, he demonstrated his growing lack of perspective by publishing his manifesto, the Green Book, a slim collection of incoherent ramblings that he offered as the ideological guide to what he saw as Libya's never ending ''revolution.''
Soon the contents of the Green Book became national slogans. ''The house belongs to those who live in it,'' said one, forcing landlords who owned multiple dwellings to give up their properties (or to hastily arrange marriages to keep them in the family). Another insisted that ''democracy is the abortion of an individual's rights.'' Colonel Qaddafi came to be referred to as the Leader or the Guide, the oracle for an unsteady revolution.
Increasingly, however, Colonel Qaddafi's philosophical musings and his grand ideas for a new society clashed with what was becoming a visibly darker side of the regime. Libyans found themselves in an Orwellian nightmare where even small utterances of protest could lead to disappearances, prolonged incarceration without any form of legal redress and torture. Entire families were made to suffer from the alleged transgressions of one of its members.
Even exile could not provide escape from the terror. In a campaign to kill what Colonel Qaddafi termed ''stray dogs,'' he had assassination teams gun down dissidents abroad. When, in 1984, Libyan protestors demonstrated in front of their embassy in London, a police officer, who was trying to keep demonstrators at bay, was killed by a bullet fired from inside the embassy. That led the British government to break off diplomatic relations with the regime.
Colonel Qaddafi's willingness to flout international conventions and his government's well-documented involvement in terrorist incidents led inexorably to a sustained confrontation with the West and made the Libyan leader a pariah. President Ronald Reagan famously labeled him ''the mad dog of the Middle East,'' and the image of an irrational Colonel Qaddafi, hell-bent on destroying Western interests at all costs and by all methods, became the world's lingering image of him. The bombing of a Pan Am plane over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, which killed 270 people, was only the final confirmation of his madness and evil.
After Lockerbie, Libya was plunged into isolation and remained there for more than a decade. Colonel Qaddafi ranted and raved, his speeches becoming even more apocalyptic. He blamed American or Zionist conspiracies -- or a fifth column in Libya working at their behest -- for every little setback his country suffered.
Armed with large ambitions, and large amounts of cash, he struck back at the West -- by committing more acts of terrorism, like the bombing of the La Belle disco in Germany in 1986, which killed two American soldiers, and attempting to create and purchase biological weapons and nuclear arms technology. He also supported unsavory liberation movements and causes throughout the world, ranging from small opposition movements in sub-Saharan Africa to the Irish Republican Army. But he was severely hemmed in by the world's economic and diplomatic sanctions.
In December 2003, Libya finally agreed to give up whatever supplies of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons it possessed. This promise came at the end of a long process of behind-the-scenes negotiations with Britain and the United States, and was one of the conditions Colonel Qaddafi met in order to end the sanctions. It marked the beginning of his rehabilitation into international society.
The regime now sought in earnest to portray Muammar el-Qaddafi to the world as he had always envisioned himself: a global figure of major proportion, a visionary thinker whose ideas about democracy were worthy of serious intellectual contemplation. Among these ideas was Colonel Qaddafi's notion of Israteen, a unitary state that would house both Palestine and Israel.
The Libyan government paid an international consulting firm to help create a forum to bring well-known public pundits and personalities to Libya to debate with the ''leader of the revolution'' on the nature of democracy. The appearance in Libya of leading Western intellectuals and public figures -- willing to indulge a dictator's whims and fancies for a handful of petrodollars -- fed Colonel Qaddafi's conviction that the Green Book was still relevant, and that his outworn revolution and his own stature as a world leader were important.
The man who had once personified terrorism thus became our valued ally in the fight against terrorism. We could live with his foibles and occasional ranting in return for his cooperation. So he provided intelligence on Islamic groups in his country, and on at least one occasion accepted a terrorist detainee for interrogation -- and American oil companies, along with various other United States businesses, returned to Libya. Colonel Qaddafi had come full circle, or so many believed.
But now that the Libyan regime -- like those of Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen and Bahrain -- is besieged by a popular uprising, the image of Colonel Qaddafi as the vicious monster who will go to any lengths to survive has reappeared. Hundreds of civilians have been killed by security forces and hired mercenaries, even as pro-Qaddafi forces have had to abandon Benghazi and most of the eastern province of Cyrenaica.
On Monday, when the leader went on television with his Green Book in hand, his diatribe was incoherent but familiar. His opponents, he said, were nothing but dogs and cockroaches, and he would squash and kill them.
Gone were the flowery niceties of democratic theory. Back again was the reality of brutal suppression. However, the terrible events of the past week do recall a line from the Green Book, written with perfect sangfroid by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi: ''This is genuine democracy, but in reality the strong always rule.''
Correction: February 25, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Op-Ed article on Thursday, about Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, incorrectly described the death of President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt. He died of a heart attack; he was not assassinated.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JOSH COCHRAN
SAM WEBER
JILLIAN TAMAKI
LEIF PARSONS
JENNIFER DANIEL
CHRIS SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COUPS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (89%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (89%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



611 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Concerns for Boeing Grow As a Tanker Decision Nears

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
As the Air Force tries to end its long and often embarrassing effort to buy new aerial fueling tankers, Boeing's supporters are questioning the fairness of the bidding, while its European rival seems confident it will win the $35 billion contract.
The Pentagon plans to announce the winner on Thursday afternoon. Boeing and the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, known as EADS, have been locked for years in a nearly operatic struggle over one of the military's richest contracts. The battle will shift to Congress once the Pentagon makes its choice. 
Both companies have a lot at stake, especially since the contract for the planes, which are essentially flying gas cans, could later be extended to $100 billion even if military spending falls. But the competition also includes thousands of high-paying jobs, and whether they will end up at Boeing's plants in Washington State and Kansas or in Alabama, where EADS would build a factory if it won.
No matter which company the Pentagon taps, ''Congress might just automatically take up arms,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. ''The last thing you want in this economic environment is to have your constituents back home think that you aren't doing all you can to bring jobs to your district.''
Boeing's supporters acknowledge that they are worried. And if the Air Force picks EADS, that could revive concerns in Congress about putting a major military contract in the hands of a foreign company, though EADS says its North American subsidiary would eventually assemble much of each plane in Mobile.
Lawmakers who support Boeing contend that the Pentagon's formula for judging the bids favors the larger European plane over Boeing's smaller one. They also complain that EADS, which is partly owned by European nations, could use subsidies to underbid Boeing even though the EADS plane would normally cost at least 10 to 15 percent more to build.
''I think the Air Force has bent over backwards not only to get EADS to bid, but to give it an advantage,'' Senator Maria Cantwell, a Democrat from Washington State, said Wednesday in an interview.
Pentagon officials declined to comment on Wednesday. They have said they steered the bidding ''straight down the middle'' to get the best deal for the military and to push forward on a project that began in 2001. EADS and its supporters dismiss Boeing's concerns, saying the rules of the contest have been clear for more than a year and their plane is more modern.
''It is my hope that the Air Force will soon put thousands of Alabamians to work building the clearly superior aircraft our war-fighters deserve,'' Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, said in a statement on Wednesday.
Both companies said they had adjusted their bids in submitting their ''best and final'' offers on Feb. 10. When reporters asked last week how much EADS had lowered its price, Ralph D. Crosby Jr., the chairman of its North American unit, quipped: ''Just enough to win.''
EADS also has substantial political backing, particularly among Republican lawmakers. So the fight could also offer another test of how the new Republican majority in the House will handle spending and job issues. And some analysts believe that Congress could still order the Pentagon to split the purchase between the two companies.
The bidding marks the third attempt by the Air Force to start replacing hundreds of aging tankers, which date back to the Eisenhower and Kennedy years. They transfer fuel in flight to fighters, bombers and cargo planes.
Even some military officials note sardonically that the Allies won World War II in half the time it has taken the procurement process to get to this point.
The first effort collapsed after Senator John McCain, the Republican from Arizona, blew the whistle on corruption involving an airplane-leasing proposal with Boeing. Northrop Grumman and EADS, the parent of Airbus, then won in 2008, only to have government auditors block the award after Boeing protested that the evaluation had been too subjective.
Northrop dropped out last year, prompting the Pentagon to extend the bid deadline to give EADS more time out of concern that Boeing could charge a higher price if it were the only bidder.
Another complexity was that the EADS plane, based on an Airbus A330-200 commercial jet, could carry more fuel than Boeing's offering, which is derived from its 767 jetliner, but also could have higher operating costs.
So the Pentagon has relied on a mathematical scoring system to adjust the price of each plane, determined by how well it would meet various war-fighting situations and how much it would cost to operate the fleet over 40 years.
Boeing's supporters say that while they initially thought the system might give the smaller plane some advantages, it did not always turn out that way.
Representative Jay Inslee, a Democrat from Washington State, said that under one simulated war situation, some of the EADS planes were allowed to fly from bases closer to the battle areas than Boeing's planes, reducing the amount of fuel that the EADS planes would have to burn to make deliveries.
He also said the Air Force had projected that fuel costs would increase by an annual average of 2.5 percent over 40 years, while consultants hired by Boeing thought the rate would be higher. He said that reduced a possible cost advantage for Boeing.
Guy Hicks, a spokesman for EADS North America, said his company had been hurt by other factors, and both companies were allowed to seek changes in the rules. ''But now it seems that some people are taking steps in the ninth inning to try to change the rules,'' he said.
Boeing's supporters have also long been rankled by the Pentagon's insistence that it could not weigh the effects of government aviation subsidies while the World Trade Organization considers cases against both Europe and the United States. That issue is likely to flare up again if Congress debates the Pentagon's tanker choice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, an artist's rendering of Boeing's proposed aerial fueling tanker. Above, the plane that EADS North America has offered. They are competing for a $35 billion Air Force contract. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOEING, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENSE AND SPACE COMPANY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (93%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (92%); EAD (MCE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



612 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: The Threatened Thirst

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Christine Hauser contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Crude oil prices reached $100 a barrel in the United States on Wednesday, the highest price in more than two years, as Middle East oil flows were interrupted this week for the first time since the region's turmoil began.
Multinational oil companies have curtailed production in Libya as protesters engage in violent confrontation with the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Analysts estimate that as many as a million barrels of Libyan oil a day have been removed from world markets in recent days, and investors fear that more oil production could be disrupted if the unrest spreads to other crucial producing nations, like Algeria. 
More broadly, economists are concerned that if oil prices stay high this year, they could slow the already fragile global economic recovery. As a general rule of thumb, every $10 increase in the price of a barrel of oil reduces the growth of the gross domestic product by half a percentage point within two years.
Libya produces less than 2 percent of the world's oil, and exports little to the United States. But the high quality of its reserves magnifies its importance in world markets.
Libya's ''sweet'' crude oil cannot be easily replaced in the production of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, particularly by the many European and Asian refineries that are not equipped to refine ''sour'' crude, which is higher in sulfur content. Saudi Arabia has more than four million barrels of spare capacity and has promised to tap it if necessary, but that capacity is mostly for sour grades of oil.
Should the turmoil in Libya last for more than a few weeks, oil experts predict that European refiners will be forced to buy sweet crude from Algeria and Nigeria, two principal sources of sweet crude for the United States. That would probably push up American gasoline prices, which have already risen 6 cents a gallon over the last week to an average of $3.19 for regular grade.
''It will force all sweet crude refiners into a bidding war,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, an organization partly financed by the oil industry. ''Quality matters more than quantity.''
Sweet crude is particularly well suited for producing diesel fuel, which is far more popular as a transportation fuel in Europe than in the United States. Sour crudes are more expensive to refine, but American refineries are typically outfitted with equipment to refine them because so much oil imported to the United States comes from Latin America, where many oil reserves are sour.
The last time there was a shortage of sweet crude, in 2007 and early 2008, oil prices surged to more than $140 a barrel, although that shortage was caused mostly by spiraling demand and not a sudden cut in supply.
The price of the benchmark American oil, West Texas Intermediate, briefly touched $100 on Wednesday before settling at $98.10 in New York trading, up $2.68 from Tuesday. In London, the benchmark Brent crude rose $5.47, to $111.25.
A gauge of jet fuel prices, known as Gulf Coast jet fuel, soared 10.7 cents, to $2.99 a gallon in the spot market on Wednesday, putting pressure on airlines to raise fares. Meanwhile, diesel prices have risen 4 cents in the last week, to $3.57 a gallon, the highest level since October 2008.
Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consultancy firm, said the Brent benchmark was headed for $120 a barrel while West Texas Intermediate would reach $110 ''in the near term.''
That could easily push the national average price for a gallon of regular gasoline to $3.50, which economists say would cut into consumer discretionary spending, like dining out. Typically, every one-cent increase in the pump price of gasoline takes more than $1 billion out of consumer pockets over a year.
Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group, said in a research note that the turmoil ''will slow the economic recovery this year, as both consumers and businesses look on with concern and begin to reconsider their spending plans.''
Still, the United States remains less directly vulnerable than most European or Asian nations because its large refineries can process both sweet and sour crudes. A versatile refinery fleet makes the United States an exporter of both diesel and jet fuel.
If supplies of sweet oil become tight, the United States can release supplies from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, but that would probably have only a marginal effect on prices.
Europe is most immediately affected by the Libyan crisis. More than 85 percent of Libya's exports go to Europe, with more than a third of that going to Italy. Most of the rest goes to Asia. About 5 percent is sent to the United States.
ENI, the Italian oil company, Repsol of Spain, Total of France, Statoil of Norway, and BASF, the German chemical and energy company, have halted much if not most of their oil production in Libya and moved personnel out of the country.
In a research note, Barclays Capital estimated that around one million barrels a day of production had been shut down, or more than half the country's total. Much of Libya's oil producing capacity and its port facilities are in the eastern part of the country, where the government has lost the most control.
That leaves the eyes of the oil world on neighboring Algeria, another country with a history of unrest. Algeria is the seventh-biggest source of American oil imports.
There have been sporadic protests against high food prices and unemployment in Algeria over the last several weeks, including at least two large demonstrations in Algiers demanding the resignation of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
''You have a powder keg in Algeria with social problems, ethnic problems and an Islamist organization blended together and overlapping,'' said Michael J. Economides, a professor of engineering and energy economics at the University of Houston. ''Many refineries would go into paroxysm if they lose Libyan and Algerian oil.''
Most Middle East oil production is controlled by national oil companies that operate as virtual state agencies and coordinate their security needs with the national militaries.
But that is not the case in either Libya or Algeria, where American and European oil companies have invested heavily over the last decade to bolster production that had been lagging. Foreign companies have shown in Libya, and to a lesser extent in Egypt, that they will shut down exploration and production and close their offices rather than jeopardize the safety of their employees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gas stations in Montpelier, Vt. Prices jumped 8.2 cents a gallon in the last month and $1.28 a gallon in the last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
The production facilities of Wintershall, a German oil company, in Libya. It halted oil production because of the turmoil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B10) GRAPHICS: Oil Exports and a Region in Tumult: Violent protests in Libya have reduced the country's oil production by more than half. Saudi Arabia, the largest oil producer in the world, provided assurances on Tuesday that it could compensate. But while Libya's crude is low in sulfur, or sweet, Saudi Arabia's crude is high in sulfur, or sour, which is more expensive and difficult to refine. (Sources: U.S. Energy Information Administration
 news reports) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); JET FUEL (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



613 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: As Energy Alarms Investors, Shares Continue Their Slide

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Clifford Krauss and Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa continued to send stocks lower and oil prices up on Wednesday as crude operations were disrupted in Libya.
Energy stocks rose almost 2 percent in the broader market, but other sectors vulnerable to turbulence in oil prices, like airlines, declined as crude traded around $100 a barrel. 
Investors are concerned about the effects on the global economic recovery if the unrest, which has already unseated governments in Tunisia and Egypt, is sustained or spreads to other critical suppliers like Saudi Arabia. With oil prices at a two-year high, some analysts say higher gasoline prices could bear down on consumers in the long term.
The major indexes were dragged down for a second day. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 107.01 points, or 0.88 percent, at 12,105.78. The Dow is now down almost 300 points over the last two days.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 8.04 points, or 0.61 percent, at 1,307.40 and the Nasdaq lost 33.43 points, or 1.21 percent, at 2,722.99.
Spot oil prices settled at $98.10 a barrel in New York trading, after touching $100 earlier in the day. In London, Brent crude for April delivery traded well above $100.
Kate Warne, an investment strategist for Edward Jones, said the equities market was reacting to expectations that gasoline and other energy prices would rise. ''But we would have to see higher oil prices stay around for longer to have much serious impact,'' she said. ''The short term spike doesn't tend to slow the economy very much.''
Markets were also lower in Asia and in Europe, which buys more than 85 percent of Libya's crude oil and appears most vulnerable to strife there.
On Wall Street, Hewlett-Packard declined more than 9 percent to $43.59. After the markets closed on Tuesday, H.P. reported disappointing first-quarter revenue despite sales that rose 4 percent, to $32.3 billion.
United Continental Holdings fell more than 6 percent to $22.78. The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, was down more than 6 percent at $6.56. Cabot Oil and Gas was up 12.43 percent at $44.78. Exxon Mobil was up 1.91 percent at $87.07.
The 10-year Treasury yields rose to 3.48 percent, from 3.45 percent late Tuesday. The price fell 9/32 to 101 5/32.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: AMR CORP (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); CABOT OIL & GAS MARKETING CORP (52%); CABOT OIL & GAS CORP (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); COG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); TUNISIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



614 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Banks Regained Footing in 2010, F.D.I.C. Says, but Another Step Still Remains

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
After three dismal years, the American banking industry regained its footing in 2010, according to a regulatory assessment released on Wednesday.
Bank profits rebounded sharply. Loan losses eased. And only 24 lenders were added to the government's list of troubled banks, the smallest increase since the financial crisis erupted in late 2007.
In its assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said the nation's banks had swung to an $87.5 billion profit in 2010, up from a net loss of $10.6 billion in 2009. And for the first time in six years, the number of institutions reporting an annual loss decreased. 
Those results compelled the agency's chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, to call 2010 a ''turnaround year'' for the banking industry.
Even so, those gains came about not so much from improving business conditions as from banks setting aside less money in reserves to cover losses on delinquent loans. The industry remains under pressure from sluggish revenue growth, partly because of new financial regulations that limit the fees banks can charge.Lending also remains weak. Total loans and leases fell slightly again during the fourth quarter, the F.D.I.C. report said. Lending has grown in only one of the last 10 quarters.
Ms. Bair said that banks needed to do more for a full-blown economic recovery to take hold.
''Cleaning up balance sheets is only a first step,'' she said in prepared remarks. ''Now, we are looking to the industry to take the next step, and begin to build their loan portfolios.''
There are some signs that credit is starting to loosen. According to recent government reports, consumers are feeling more upbeat about the economy, banks are gradually relaxing their lending standards, and lending to corporations and consumers is rising, though modestly.
Credit card borrowing rose 3 percent in December, the first time it has increased in over two years, according to the Federal Reserve.
As federal policy makers try to nurse the financial industry back to health, they are trying to strike a balance between prodding the banks to lend more, which would probably increase economic growth, while also making sure the banks keep enough capital on hand to avoid another round of debilitating loan losses and a repeat of the financial crisis.
Loan losses were a big reason the number of bank failures peaked at 157 in 2010, its highest level since the nation's last severe economic recession, in 1992. All told, 347 banks have failed since the crisis began.
Of the nation's 7,657 remaining lenders, 884 were considered troubled in the fourth quarter, up from 860 in the previous period. Yet, despite that increase, not all of the banks on the government's watch list are destined to fail. Indeed, F.D.I.C. officials say they expect both the number and total assets belonging to the banks that it seizes to be lower this year.
That bodes well for the restoration of the agency's insurance fund, which protects the savings of depositors. At the end of December, it had a negative balance of $7.4 billion, a slight improvement from a negative balance of $8 billion in September.
Ms. Bair said that the agency would be able to replenish it through higher insurance premiums and a special assessment imposed on the banking industry. The agency also expects the cost of resolving troubled banks to be lower in the near future.
She said she expected the deposit insurance fund to ''turn positive in 2011.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., said on Wednesday that she wanted banks to begin to build their loan portfolios. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



615 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Battling Pests and Soothing Nerves

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Bugging out? Never fear, James C. Harris is here. Mr. Harris, 24, who lives in the Morrisania neighborhood of the Bronx, has been working in Flushing, Queens, as a certified pest control technician for Terminix Pest Control since last summer, ridding homes and workplaces of all manner of unwelcome furry, clawed and multilegged guests.
Home front: I live with my mom. She's on S.S.I. We're pretty close. My mom has diabetes. Sometimes her diabetes goes up and down and I got to take her to the doctor. I pay mostly all the bills at home: cable, her medicine, phone and some of the rent. 
Going to work: I got my G.E.D. and went to community college, but I had to stop school at an early age because of the income in my house. I've been working since I was 17. I worked at Old Navy and Modell's distribution center. Then I was working in a bakery in the Bronx. I was basically a mixer. We baked all bread products, organic bread. I was doing the same thing for eight hours every day. I was there for four years but it felt like more.
Making a change: One day a guy came into the bakery to do pest control. He said, ''Man, you're talented and smart, why don't you get into pest control, you know what I'm saying?'' His job was never boring to him. He loved it. And that was something I wanted. So I went to a school in Queens. That was maybe a year and a half ago. I was hired at Terminix in May 2010.
Pest school: I learned all kinds of things, about rats and rodents and all different types of bugs and how to diagnose what the problem is. About inspectors, labels, the law. On the back of the can you always read the label because the label is the law.
Typical day: I touch base with my service manager and see what's on my agenda, and identify what problems people are having at their location. Then I get the tools: glue boards, snap traps. We usually try to stay away from chemicals. If you have a chemical and want to put it inside a place, say a food processing place, the rodent will eat and go somewhere else and die. You don't want them dying in places where you don't know where it's at, and it smells, and it's bad for business.
Biggest complaint:Bedbugs.
Second-biggest complaint: I think it might be rodents. Mice. Rats. And then roaches.
Worst-case scenario: I've seen some bad infestations of roaches. Sometimes you go into the people's houses and you can literally smell the roaches.
Are you squeamish? Like scared? No, not really. You know, I like it when some of the customers are that way. When they see me come in calm and nonchalant, it gives them a sense of security because they know the problem's going to go away. When you do a great job and eliminate the problem, it seems as if they fall in love with you. They're grateful and very appreciative. That's the best part of the job, to see the smile on their face.
Spare time: I do what every other 24-year-old does. I hang out with my girl. And I watch baseball, basketball, football. Those are my main sports.
Girlfriend's thoughts on job: She's just happy I'm working in this type of economy. She asks a lot of questions, though, like, ''How big are the rats?'' And sometimes I say, ''Yeah, the rat was this big and that big,'' and it freaks her out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEST CONTROL SERVICES (92%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); PESTICIDES (89%); RODENTS (89%); BED BUGS (77%); PRODUCT LABELING (72%); BAKERIES (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (72%); DIABETES (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



616 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Unnecessarily Invasive

 BODY:
A warning to all women whose mammograms show an abnormality: If your surgeon says you need a surgical biopsy to determine if you have cancer, be sure to get a second opinion. The odds are good that you should get a needle biopsy. That is safer, less invasive, and cheaper. 
Denise Grady reported in The Times on a study of more than 170,000 biopsies in Florida between 2003 and 2008. It found that 30 percent were surgical, while guidelines suggested the rate should be 10 percent or less.
Why would the percentages be so high? Many surgeons may fail to keep up with the latest medical guidelines that favor needle biopsies in most cases. But surgeons also have a strong financial incentive to perform surgical biopsies rather than refer patients to the radiologists who perform most needle biopsies.
Either way, the result is much higher costs. Hospitals charge more than $10,000 for a surgical biopsy, and about half that for a needle biopsy. Surgeons charge $1,500 to $2,500 for a surgical biopsy; radiologists who do the needle biopsy charge between $750 to $1,500.
An excessive resort to surgery can also lead to needless injuries. A surgical biopsy requires an inch-long incision to cut out the abnormal area. A needle biopsy requires only a tiny incision to obtain a sample of cells, requires no stitches, and carries less risk of infection and scarring. Most patients who undergo biopsies, of either sort, don't have cancer; some 80 percent of all breast biopsies turn out to be benign.
If the results of the Florida study, published in The American Journal of Surgery, are extrapolated to the entire country, more than 300,000 women a year are having unnecessary surgery, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
The new health care reform should begin to rein in excessive, unnecessary procedures. It has economic incentives for hospitals and doctors to join forces to manage a patient's care in the most medically appropriate, cost-effective way possible.
The numbers could be reduced right now if hospitals were to ban surgical biopsies where a needle biopsy would suffice -- and if patients were to demand a second opinion before submitting to a surgical biopsy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (95%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WOMEN (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



617 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: As Arab World Shakes, Iran's Influence Grows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nadim Audi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- The popular revolts shaking the Arab world have begun to shift the balance of power in the region, bolstering Iran's position while weakening and unnerving its rival, Saudi Arabia, regional experts said.
While it is far too soon to write the final chapter on the uprisings' impact, Iran has already benefited from the ouster or undermining of Arab leaders who were its strong adversaries and has begun to project its growing influence, the analysts said. This week Iran sent two warships through the Suez Canal for the first time since its revolution in 1979, and Egypt's new military leaders allowed them to pass.
Saudi Arabia, an American ally and a Sunni nation that jousts with Shiite Iran for regional influence, has been shaken. King Abdullah on Wednesday signaled his concern by announcing a $10 billion increase in welfare spending to help young people marry, buy homes and open businesses, a gesture seen as trying to head off the kind of unrest that fueled protests around the region. 
King Abdullah then met with the king of Bahrain, Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, to discuss ways to contain the political uprising by the Shiite majority there. The Sunni leaders in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain accuse their Shiite populations of loyalty to Iran, a charge rejected by Shiites who say it is intended to stoke sectarian tensions and justify opposition to democracy.
The uprisings are driven by domestic concerns. But they have already shredded a regional paradigm in which a trio of states aligned with the West supported engaging Israel and containing Israel's enemies, including Hamas and Hezbollah, experts said. The pro-engagement camp of Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia is now in tatters. Hosni Mubarak of Egypt has been forced to resign, King Abdullah of Jordan is struggling to control discontent in his kingdom and Saudi Arabia has been left alone to face a rising challenge to its regional role.
''I think the Saudis are worried that they're encircled -- Iraq, Syria, Lebanon; Yemen is unstable; Bahrain is very uncertain,'' said Alireza Nader, an expert in international affairs with the RAND Corporation. ''They worry that the region is ripe for Iranian exploitation. Iran has shown that it is very capable of taking advantage of regional instability.''
''Iran is the big winner here,'' said a regional adviser to the United States government who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters.
Iran's circumstances could change, experts cautioned, if it overplayed its hand or if popular Arab movements came to resent Iranian interference in the region. And it is by no means assured that pro-Iranian groups would dominate politics in Egypt, Tunisia or elsewhere.
For now, Iran and Syria are emboldened. Qatar and Oman are tilting toward Iran, and Egypt, Tunisia, Bahrain and Yemen are in play.
''If these 'pro-American' Arab political orders currently being challenged by significant protest movements become at all more representative of their populations, they will for sure become less enthusiastic about strategic cooperation with the United States,'' Flynt Leverett and Hillary Mann Leverett, former National Security Council staff members, wrote in an e-mail.
They added that at the moment, Iran's leaders saw that ''the regional balance is shifting, in potentially decisive ways, against their American adversary and in favor of the Islamic Republic.'' Iran's standing is stronger in spite of its challenges at home, with a troubled economy, high unemployment and a determined political opposition.
The United States may also face challenges in pressing its case against Iran's nuclear programs, some experts asserted.
''Recent events have also taken the focus away from Iran's nuclear program and may make regional and international consensus on sanctions even harder to achieve,'' Mr. Nader said. Iran's growing confidence is based on a gradual realignment that began with the aftershocks of the Sept. 11 attacks. By ousting the Taliban in Afghanistan, and then Saddam Hussein in Iraq, the United States removed two of Iran's regional enemies who worked to contain its ambitions. Today, Iran is a major player in both nations, an unintended consequence.
Iran demonstrated its emboldened attitude this year in Lebanon when its ally, Hezbollah, forced the collapse of the pro-Western government of Saad Hariri. Mr. Hariri was replaced with a prime minister backed by Hezbollah, a bold move that analysts say was undertaken with Iran's support.
''Iraq and Lebanon are now in Iran's sphere of influence with groups that have been supported by the hard-liners for decades,'' said Muhammad Sahimi, an Iran expert in Los Angeles who frequently writes about Iranian politics. ''Iran is a major player in Afghanistan. Any regime that eventually emerges in Egypt will not be as hostile to Hamas as Mubarak was, and Hamas has been supported by Iran. That may help Iran to increase its influence there even more.''
Iran could also benefit from the growing assertiveness of Shiites in general. Shiism is hardly monolithic, and Iran does not speak on behalf of all Shiites. But members of that sect are linked by faith and by their strong sense that they have been victims of discrimination by the Sunni majority. Events in Bahrain illustrate that connection well.
Bahrain has about 500,000 citizens, 70 percent of them Shiite. The nation has been ruled by a Sunni family since it was captured from the Persians in the 18th century. The Shiites have long argued that they are discriminated against in work, education and politics. Last week, they began a public uprising calling for democracy, which would bring them power. The government at first used lethal force to try to stop the opposition, killing seven. It is now calling for a dialogue while the protesters, turning out in huge numbers, are demanding the government's resignation.
But demonstrators have maintained their loyalty to Bahrain. The head of the largest Shiite party, Al Wefaq, said that the party rejected Iran's type of Islamic government. On Tuesday, a leading member of the party, Khalil Ebrahim al-Marzooq, said he was afraid that the king was trying to transform the political dispute into a sectarian one. He said there were rumors the king would open the border with Saudi Arabia and let Sunni extremists into the country to attack the demonstrators.
''The moment that any border opens by the government, means the other borders will open,'' he said. ''You don't expect people will see their similar sect being killed and not interfere. We will not call them.''
But, he said, they will come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prince Nayef Bin Abdul Aziz, left, Saudi Arabia's interior minister, with King Hamad bin Isa al- Khalifa of Bahrain in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Wednesday, where they greeted King Abdullah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (76%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); POLITICS (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); HEZBOLLAH (69%); HAMAS (69%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) BAHRAIN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TUNISIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); JORDAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



618 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: You Should Open a Store ... or Maybe Not

BYLINE: By JAY GOLTZ, ADRIANA GARDELLA, BRUCE BUSCHEL, DAVID H. FREEDMAN

 BODY:
Joanne Tarzian's friends are all telling her to open a store. And it is easy to see why. In 1997, Ms. Tarzian joined her sister, who was running her father's neighborhood kitchenware store in New York. Over the next 11 years, she bought out her sister and transformed the store into a modern mecca for both gourmet and aspiring cooks. She ultimately sold the store and moved to Chicago to pursue a new opportunity working for a housewares manufacturer.
It is three years later and things did not work out as planned. Her job was eliminated because of the recession and, like many people, she has been left to ponder her next move. She started to think that one of her options might be to open a store in Chicago. She is getting plenty of advice, and it has all pointed in the same direction. Two chief executives who know her skills, drive and personality have encouraged her to, ''Get it done.'' When she shows some anxiety about taking the inevitable risks, they insist, ''Just do it!'' 
In the meantime, Ms. Tarzian has had a job doing marketing for a motivational speaker. When she shares her concerns about the details and challenges of opening a new store from scratch, especially in this business environment, the motivational expert says, ''You're getting hung up in the how!''
This made her think. Was she too hung up in the how? She was talking to a friend of a friend who thought that she should talk to me because of my retail experience in Chicago as well as my entrepreneurial experience (I own five small businesses, including a home-and-garden store).
Given her background, starting a store seemed like a logical move -- but there are reasons for concern. She says she believes that it will cost $300,000 to get the store open, and she cannot finance it on her own. She has never started a store from scratch. She was already burned out once from running a store, and it is a very difficult retail environment right now.
Ms. Tarzian knows what she is doing, which greatly increases her odds of success. But she cannot afford to fail -- a failure would mean both business and personal bankruptcy. What do you think she should do? Go to nytimes.com/boss to join the discussion. JAY GOLTZCOMMENT I think she should team up with architects and interior designers to design and equip custom kitchens for high-end home buyers. That way she can create a niche, build a business through word of mouth, and make use of her product knowledge and enthusiasm -- without the capital expense, overhead, and risk of a retail store. -- Bill
Bootstrapping
And Its Merits
Last week, we published a case study that discussed the challenges facing Irrational Design, a technology start-up based in San Francisco that is determined to bootstrap. Its co-founders, Jared Cosulich and Adam Abrons, say they believe they will be freer to take risks and experiment without pressure from investors seeking a quick return. But operating on a shoestring has meant releasing imperfect products -- a dating Web site, an application that serves as an online suggestion box for businesses, and a goal-sharing message board.
Irrational Design plans to stay the course, ultimately bringing its disparate offerings together under an umbrella brand that can compete with online consumer and lifestyle communities like Yahoo. ''We're not simply throwing Web sites against the wall to see what sticks,'' said Mr. Cosulich.
Reader comments were supportive of Irrational Design's decision to fly solo, which didn't surprise Mr. Cosulich. ''It's a shame that out here in the Valley, in tech, V.C. funding has become the default,'' he said. In a brief interview, Mr. Cosulich reacted to a few reader questions, including one who suggested that venture capital isn't an option for a prerevenue company like Irrational Design. ''No, you don't have to be making money to raise it,'' Mr. Cosulich responded. ''Plenty of start-ups raise capital before they even have a product.'' ADRIANA GARDELLA
The Problem
With Publicity
Six months before the opening of Southfork Kitchen, my seafood restaurant in the Hamptons on Long Island, a local public relations director pitched me, telling me what he would do, how he would do it and how much it would cost: $4,500 a month for the busy months of the year.
The P.R. maven wanted to start immediately, wanted to create a preopening buzz so loud that it would announce our arrival from sea to shining inlet, instantly creating a name and a brand. The success of the restaurant depended on the opening, he insisted, and who was I to balk?
Besides, I had never met anyone who went to a new restaurant based on advertisements; feature stories, positive reviews and good gossip served as better pathways to the hearts of foodies.
We came up with story lines and a list of outlets that might like them. Print media, electronic media, social media. But the opening date was quicksilver, always moving, and never closer. It confounded the P.R. people. As the October opening finally approached, nary a word had been written about the restaurant.
So we had a sit-down. According to the P.R. team, we were too Long Island for the New York media and too uncertain about the opening date for Long Island media. After months of working on the account, the P.R. people had arrived at a few conclusions, including this one: ''We have to taste your food in order to get excited about doing our jobs.''
That was the showstopper. A P.R. firm -- paid to promote us -- would kick into high gear only after tasting our food? And approving of it? What happened to the preopening vuvuzela buzz? And if our P.R. experts accepted only clients whose culinary endeavors met with their approval, why hadn't they dropped half their restaurant clients? BRUCE BUSCHEL
COMMENT Start focusing 100% on your cooking, and that clients leave the restaurant satisfied, then you won't need a P.R. firm. -- Marc
Got an Idea?
Tell Everyone!
You have heard of high-tech start-ups being in ''stealth mode,'' meaning they are not telling anyone what they are up to yet. It has a glamorous aura to it, conjuring up images of a brilliant project in the works that will soon be sprung upon the world, disrupting established players and leaving everyone scrambling to catch up. Don't all smart companies with really great innovations keep those ideas hidden away until they are ready to release them, lest competitors steal them? Look at Apple, which has perfected the art of secretiveness to enormous profit.
All this is what Jason Freedman (no relation) learned at Dartmouth's Tuck Business School four years ago. And, according to a terrific new post on his blog (www.humbledmba.com), it's also what led his first company straight into failure. When he started his next company (FlightCaster, which predicts flight delays), he told everyone what he was up to. It was a hit and was acquired for a nice sum three months ago.
In a nutshell, here is Mr. Freedman's stealth-equals-failure argument:
1) Your idea isn't that great; it's your execution that will determine your success.
2) Your product's first iteration won't be good enough, and you will fail if you don't get smart investors and entrepreneurs to tell you how to fix it.
3) Being secretive will prevent you from getting enough of that advice. DAVID H. FREEDMAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joanne Tarzian has experience as a store owner, but is undecided about doing it again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (78%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (73%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (63%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (50%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



619 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Raised Brows As Christie Dons Mantle Of Trailblazer

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie is a prolific denier that he is interested in running for president in 2012, but this week he billed himself as a different kind of national leader. When other states close budget deficits and curb rising costs, he said in unveiling his budget plan on Tuesday, they are reading from the New Jersey playbook.
Mr. Christie, a Republican, has made similar boasts in passing, but this time he devoted several minutes to crowning himself the role model for others. 
''This year, look at how other states are following New Jersey,'' he said. ''Democratic governors and Republican governors now look to New Jersey as a beacon of hope for what can happen when leaders lead and a people sacrifice as one for the future of our children.''
Mr. Christie listed actions by governors in New York, Wisconsin and Ohio as among the copycat examples. Twice he cited Jerry Brown, the Democratic governor of California, who has proposed lower pay and layoffs for state employees.
Asked on Wednesday whether his boss saw Mr. Christie's New Jersey as a road map, Gil Duran, Mr. Brown's press secretary, said, ''We are focused on what is happening in Sacramento, not what is happening in Trenton.''
Another Democrat cited by Mr. Christie, Andrew M. Cuomo, has rarely made any public mention of the governor.
Not surprisingly, Republicans have been more effusive. When Mr. Christie campaigned for him last fall, John R. Kasich, now the governor of Ohio, called him ''a great American leader.'' And Scott Walker, now the Wisconsin governor, told The Wall Street Journal, ''Chris Christie is the primo example of how you turn around government.''
But their offices did not return calls seeking reaction on Wednesday to Mr. Christie's self-congratulations.
Experts on politics and state finances noted that the recession of 2007 to 2009, the bursting of the housing and credit bubbles, and the anemic economic recovery had left many states struggling with sharply lower tax revenue, depleted pension and benefit funds, and rising demands on programs like unemployment insurance and Medicaid. At the same time, federal stimulus aid to the states is running out.
Taking credit for leading the way on fiscal austerity under such conditions, they said, is a bit like claiming to be the first to start swimming when a flood sweeps through town.
''It's just simple math,'' said Robert Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government at the University at Albany. ''State budgets have big holes, and governors are responding to that, and in most states, they're responding to clear voter preference to do it without tax increases.''
Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University, agreed that ''the government austerity movement has sprung up throughout the country, in many places, for many of the same reasons.''
''To take credit for that seems like a very ambitious claim, to say the least,'' he added.
Mr. Christie said on Tuesday that other states ''are just now coming to terms with the gravity of the situation we understood and responded to last year.''
No one questions that Mr. Christie has been an unusually enthusiastic budget-cutter, but many states cut spending last year, and some the year before. Few cut as much as New Jersey -- in part because few were as deeply in financial trouble.
Mr. Christie has acknowledged that as a conservative Republican in a state that tends to vote Democratic, drawing parallels to other chief executives -- especially Democrats -- gives him political cover in squeezing legislators and public employees' unions for more cuts.
Perhaps it is an inevitable result of his persistence in the national spotlight, first touring the country last fall campaigning for Republicans, and lately as a favorite Washington outsider on television and radio talk shows.
''For someone who says he's not interested in the possibility of running for president,'' Professor Baker noted, ''he does spend a lot of time with the national media.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAX LAW (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (62%); HOUSING BUBBLE (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (74%); SCOTT WALKER (59%); JOHN KASICH (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



620 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures and Cash Deals Bolster U.S. Home Resales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- More people bought previously occupied homes in January, but sales increased on a rising number of foreclosures and all-cash deals.
The National Association of Realtors said Wednesday that sales of previously occupied homes rose slightly last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.36 million. That was up 2.7 percent from 5.22 million in December. 
The rate is still far below the six million homes a year that economists say represents a healthy market. And the number of first-time home buyers shrank to 29 percent of the market. A more healthy level of first-time home buyers is about 40 percent, according to the trade group.
Foreclosures represented 37 percent of sales in January. And all-cash transactions accounted for 32 percent of home sales -- double the rate from two years ago when the trade group began tracking these deals. In places like Las Vegas and Miami, cash deals represented half of all sales.
One reason cash sales are rising is that a growing number of purchases are being made by investors, the association said.
Millions of foreclosures have forced down prices, and more are expected this year. The median price of a home sold in January was $158,800. That is a 3.7 percent decrease from a year ago and the lowest point since April 2002.
One obstacle to a housing recovery is the glut of unsold homes. Those numbers fell to 3.38 million units in January. But at the January pace, it would take 7.6 months to clear them off the market. Most analysts say a six-month supply represents a healthy supply of homes.
For January, sales were up in three of the four regions of the country, led by a 7.9 percent rise in the West. Sales were up 3.6 percent in the South, and 1.8 percent in the Midwest. They were down 4.6 percent in the Northeast.
The January increase was driven by a 2.4 percent rise in sales of single-family homes, which pushed activity in this area to an annual rate of 4.69 million units. Sales of condominiums were up 4.7 percent, to a rate of 670,000 units.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Home sales rose 2.7 percent in January, but were below the six million homes a year economists say make a healthy market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



621 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: As Rivals Merge, a Hot Hong Kong Market Faces Challenges

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and EVELYN M. RUSLI; Bettina Wassener reported from Hong Kong and Evelyn M. Rusli from New York.

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Prada's first store, which unveiled the luxury retailer to the world in 1913, still operates in the grandiose Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, the 19th-century glass-domed building that is home to some of Milan's oldest and most exclusive shops and restaurants.
The setting for the company's stock market debut this year will be markedly different. Prada plans to list its public shares nearly 6,000 miles away, in Hong Kong, the modern city that is one of the world's leading financial centers. 
Prada joins more than a dozen non-Asian companies in considering Hong Kong as the site for their initial public offerings, including the American luggage maker Samsonite and the Swiss commodities trader Glencore International, which is planning a dual listing in London as well.
But as Hong Kong's stature among foreign companies grows, it faces new challenges in an increasingly global marketplace. Long-time behemoths are making new partnership and regional competitors are growing stronger - threatening to take Hong Kong's place as the leading market for I.P.O.'s.
Seen by investors as the gateway to the fast-growing Chinese economy, Hong Kong easily bested rivals last year, attracting $52 billion of public offerings. By comparison, I.P.O. volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled $35 billion in 2010, according to research firm Thomson Reuters.
''Only five years ago, if you had mentioned some of the names that are now being associated with listing in Hong Kong, rather than their home market, it would have raised eyebrows,'' said Sam Kendall, who leads the Asia equity capital markets syndicate at UBS in Hong Kong. ''But Asian markets have developed tremendously in the last few years. They are no longer backwaters; they are developed viable alternatives.''
Average daily trading volumes on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 2010 stood at $8.8 billion, according to Eric Landheer, a senior vice president responsible for issuer marketing at the Hong Kong Exchanges. That compared with $7.6 billion on the London Stock Exchange.
But Hong Kong will find its dominance in I.P.O.'s challenged this year. Global giants are bulking up amid a wave of industry consolidation. The proposed merger between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse would create the world's largest financial market, with operations in 14 countries.
Closer to home, the Singapore exchange, SGX, is aggressively jockeying for a piece of the action, too. Last year, it agreed to buy the Australian Exchange for $8.4 billion. While the combined entity still pales in size next to Hong Kong, the two exchanges accounted for about $13 billion of I.P.O. volume in 2010, making them in tandem a viable challenger in the region, analysts say.
''The combination of Singapore and ASX will inevitably result in competition over time,'' said Rupert Hume-Kendall, chairman of global capital markets at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.
In response to the flurry of exchange tie-ups in early February, the Hong Kong Exchange said it, too, was open to an alliance.
Complicating matters, Asian markets have suffered as the region wrestles with economic headwinds and inflationary concerns. The Dow Jones industrial average is up about 5.5 percent since January, even after the recent pullback related to the Middle East turmoil. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong has remained essentially flat over the same period.
Some experts also warn that the Hong Kong market needs to play catch-up on the regulatory front. Unlike in the United States, companies listed in Hong Kong are not required to submit quarterly financial reports. Shareholders' rights are also limited, according to David M. Webb, an activist investor in Hong Kong and a former independent director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, the holding company for the Hong Kong stock exchange.
''Hong Kong needs to raise its standards, or it won't maintain its position,'' Mr. Webb said. ''I think you can get higher valuations if you have a better governance framework.''
So far this year, Hong Kong's I.P.O. market has been struggling. Hong Kong has yet to register an offering worth more than $100 million in 2011, according to the boutique investment firm Renaissance Capital. Hongqiao Group, a Chinese aluminum producer that was looking to raise roughly $2 billion, was forced to scrap its plans late last month, in part owing to the unrest in Egypt.
By comparison, New York is experiencing a resurgence. In the United States, there have been 12 debuts, with total volume of $7.4 billion, based on Renaissance data.
Even as it experience short-term hiccups, Hong Kong's long-term momentum is undeniable. For many companies, particularly those in luxury goods and commodities, China is a critical growth market.
For example, Samsonite, which makes one-third of its revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, expects the share to rise to more than 50 percent in the next three years. Samsonite is becoming an ''Asia-centric company,'' said Ramesh Tainwala, president of the company's Asia-Pacific and Middle East operations.
And with the exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzen largely closed to foreign investors, Hong Kong remains the best option for companies looking to raise capital in the region, given its strong liquidity and broad investor base.
''New York and Nasdaq will always be a major market for companies globally,'' Kester Ng, who oversees equity capital markets for the Asia Pacific region at J. P. Morgan. But increasingly ''the direction will be eastward, rather than westward.''
Bettina Wassener reported from Hong Kong and Evelyn M. Rusli from New York.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Prada store in Hong Kong. Prada and other non-Asian companies are considering Hong Kong for their initial public offerings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MERGERS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); SYNDICATED LOANS (68%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (54%); LUGGAGE MFG (54%)

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (56%); 0805 (HKSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (56%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) HONG KONG (99%); SINGAPORE (91%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



622 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Bahrain King in Saudi Arabia to Discuss Unrest

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and NADIM AUDI; J. David Goodman contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- A day after one of the largest pro-democracy demonstrations this tiny Persian Gulf nation had ever seen, its king was in Saudi Arabia, a close ally and neighbor, to discuss the unrest engulfing the region.
The visit of King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa on Wednesday came just as the aging Saudi ruler, King Abdullah, returned to the country after three months of medical treatment in the United States and Morocco.
Even before King Abdullah landed in Riyadh, the capital, the Saudi government announced that it would pour billions of dollars into a fund to help its citizens marry, buy homes and start their own businesses, the government announced. Reuters said the package was estimated at $37 billion.
King Hamad had already tried his own payout -- offering $2,650 to every Bahraini family in the days before large protests broke out more than a week ago -- but the economic concession was not enough to stem the tide of opposition from the country's Shiite majority. Sunnis, the majority in Saudi Arabia, also form the ruling class in Bahrain, where Sunnis are a minority. 
In a nation of only 500,000 citizens, the sheer size of the gathering on Tuesday in Manama, Bahrain's capital, was astonishing. Tens of thousands of men, women and children, mostly members of the Shiite majority, formed a ribbon of protest for several miles along the Sheik Khalifa bin Salman Highway as they headed for the square, calling for the downfall of the government in a march that was intended to show national unity.
''This is the first time in the history of Bahrain that the majority of people, of Bahraini people, got together with one message: this regime must fall,'' said Muhammad Abdullah, 43, who was almost shaking with emotion as he watched the swelling crowd.
But for all the talk of political harmony, the past week's events have left Bahrain as badly divided as ever. Its economy is threatened and its reputation damaged. Standard and Poor's lowered its credit rating this week, Bahraini authorities canceled next month's Bahrain Grand Prix Formula One race -- a source of pride for the royal family -- many businesses remained closed, and tourism was reported down.
On one side of the divide is the Sunni minority, which largely supports King Hamad, as the protector of its interests. On the other is the Shiite majority, which knows the changes it seeks will inevitably bring power to its side. The king began releasing some political prisoners on Tuesday night, and the crown prince, Sheik Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, has called for a national dialogue to try to bridge differences, preserve the monarchy and unite the nation. But so far in Bahrain, there is no substantive dialogue between the sides. There is a test of wills, as the Sunnis fight to hold on to what they have and the Shiites grapple for their fair share after years of being marginalized by an absolute monarchy that has ruled the nation for two centuries.
''I'm really excited, but I don't know what is going to happen,'' said Fatima Amroum, a 25-year-old woman in a black abaya who was quietly sending text messages as she watched the procession on Tuesday. ''I'm a little scared of uncertainty; we might get what we demand, but freedom will be chaotic at the beginning.''
The days of protest and repression have mostly been about the Shiites speaking up and the Sunnis cracking down. But on Monday night, in the wealthy neighborhood of Juffair, tens of thousands of pro-government demonstrators poured into Al Fateh Grand Mosque to express their support for the embattled king.
The pro-government crowd borrowed some of the opposition's slogans, including ''no Sunni, no Shia, only Bahraini.'' But that was where the call for unity started and ended.
This was an affluent crowd, different from the mostly low-income Shiites who took to the streets to demand a constitutional monarchy, an elected government and a representative Parliament. The air was scented with perfume, and people drove expensive cars. In a visceral demonstration of the distance between Sunni and Shiite, the crowd cheered a police helicopter that swooped low, a symbol of the heavy-handed tactics that have been used to intimidate the Shiites.
''We love King Hamad and we hate chaos,'' said Hannan al-Abdallah, 22, as she joined the pro-government rally. ''This is our country and we're looking after it.''
Ali al-Yaffi, 29, drove to the pro-government demonstration with friends in his shiny white sport utility vehicle. He was angry and distrustful.
''The democracy they have been asking for is already here,'' he said. ''But the Shias, they have their ayatollahs, and whatever they say, they will run and do it. If they tell them to burn a house, they will. I think they have a clear intention to disrupt this country.''
On that point there is agreement: the Shiite opposition does want to disrupt, but with peaceful protests aimed at achieving its demands. The public here has learned the lessons of Egypt's popular uprising and the power of peaceful opposition.
''I feel freedom like I never felt it in my life, but I'm also a little worried,'' said Hussein al-Haddad, 32, as he marched with the Shiite protesters on Tuesday. ''What is going to happen next?''
On Feb. 14, Shiites tried to hold a ''day of rage,'' modeled on the uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt that forced out autocratic presidents. The police gave no ground, firing on crowds with tear gas and rubber bullets and leaving one man dead, shot in the back. The next day, at the funeral, another man was killed the same way.
The protesters marched into Pearl Square, the symbolic center of Manama, the capital, and set up camp. In the early-morning hours, the police raided the camp, killing three men. Then, last Friday, a group of unarmed protesters tried to march into the square. The army opened fire, and one young man, Abdul Redha Mohammed Hassan, was left with a bullet in his head. He died Monday and was buried Tuesday.
The army's attack on unarmed civilians shocked even the government's supporters, and the military was withdrawn. The demonstrators poured back in, setting up a camp and a speaker's podium and making it clear that they would not leave until their demands were met. The first demand, now, is the dissolution of the government and an agreement to create a constitutional monarchy.
''They are the ones who made the demands grow bigger,'' said Mohammed al-Shakhouri, 51, as he watched a procession of thousands follow the coffin of Mr. Hassan to the cemetery for burial.
The government seems to have accepted that violence will not silence the opposition and has shifted its strategy. It has set up a press center to get its message out and is working with a public relations firm.
The opposition has stuck with its tactic of peaceful protest. On Tuesday, the Shiite political parties, chief among them Al Wefaq, called for the demonstration to start at the Bahrain mall and march into Pearl Square. Even the organizers were surprised as turnout swelled, packing the eastbound side of the highway from the mall to the square.
''It is a revolution,'' said Hussein Mohammed, 37, a bookstore owner and volunteer for Al Wefaq. ''It is a big revolution. It is unbelievable.''
Online Correction: February 23, 2011, Wednesday
An earlier version of this story incorrectly referred to Sunnis as a minority in Saudi Arabia. Sunnis make up a majority of Saudi Arabia's population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); FAMILY (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (66%); FORMULA ONE RACING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (88%) BAHRAIN (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



623 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Airfares Are Climbing With Oil Prices

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Airline passengers should prepare themselves for sticker shock this year.
As the carriers have tried to keep up with rapidly rising oil prices, they have already increased their fares four times since the start of the year, compared with only three increases for all of 2010. The airlines have also raised some of their fees, imposed summer peak-time surcharges and added hefty fuel surcharges on international flights.
Even traditional low-cost carriers that have long undercut their rivals are joining in. Southwest Airlines, for example, which usually resists industrywide fare increases, participated in several rounds, including one this week.
While the rising ticket prices have matched the steady increase in fuel costs in recent months, the turmoil in the Middle East has sent oil prices sharply higher. That surge now threatens to derail the airline industry's fragile recovery and may lead to even more surcharges. At today's prices, fuel accounts for about 40 percent of the industry's costs, up from about 30 percent just last year. 
As a result of the uncertainty in the oil markets, airline stocks extended their losses on Wednesday, after Tuesday's steep declines. Airline stocks are down 11 percent just this week.
The airlines have few options to deal with their rising costs. Most carriers were already hedging some of their fuel purchases to protect against sudden price increases. They can also look for more fuel-efficient planes, but that requires billions of dollars in investments and takes years. In the meantime, they have little choice but to pass on costs to travelers.
So far, thanks to growing demand from both business and leisure passengers, the airlines have not had any trouble selling seats. Because they have not added much new capacity as the economy has picked up, their planes are still flying full, especially during peak hours. And as airlines continue to find customers for their most expensive fares, analysts said, they are reducing the number of their cheapest seats -- and even those are not so cheap anymore.
''Airlines are raising their fares because, right now, they think they can,'' said Jeff Straebler, a strategist at RBS. ''People will actually buy the tickets at those fares.''
In January, the cheapest round-trip fare from any of the top 50 airports in the country averaged $367 -- 10 percent higher that the average of $333 for the same time last year, according to FareCompare.com, a consumer airline research Web site.
Rick Seaney, FareCompare's chief executive, said each increase in the last three months had averaged $5 to $12 for the least expensive tickets.
The increases have been far steeper at the front of the plane, in business and first class, as well as for last-minute travelers. American Airlines, United, Continental and US Airways all raised their fares by $20 to $60 on Monday for first- and business-class tickets, and seven-day advance. Last week, Delta Air Lines increased its fares for these high-end tickets by $40 to $120 for a round-trip ticket, according to fare watchers.
On top of that, some airlines are also increasing their fees. US Airways recently raised its fees for a variety of overweight and oversize bags -- those weighing 75 to 100 pounds -- to as much as $175 a bag, from $100. It also raised the cost of a third checked bag, to $125 from $100.
''We've had a lot of airfare hike activity compared with the last two years,'' Mr. Seaney said.
In recent weeks, the carriers have also bumped up their base ticket prices for travel during the summer by as much as $250, in Virgin Airlines' case. In addition, the airlines have introduced ''peak travel'' surcharges of $20 to $60 round-trip on some summer departure dates.
Airlines executives have long dreaded the return of higher fuel prices. In 2008, when oil soared above $147 a barrel in New York, the airlines were forced to ground thousands of planes, including some of the least fuel-efficient planes, in a desperate bid to stem their losses.
But the rise in fuel prices once again hangs over the industry's profits. Last year, the top eight airlines earned $4 billion with total revenue of $122 billion, showing a meager profit margin of 3.3 percent.
Oil prices jumped more than $12 a barrel this week, rising above $98 a barrel in New York on Wednesday, after the violent uprising in Libya, a major oil producer. In London, Brent crude futures rose to $111.25 a barrel.
The price of jet fuel, which is now $2.99 a gallon, has soared 58 percent since last summer's lows of $1.89 a gallon.
''Airlines are under a lot of pressure,'' said Severin Borenstein, a professor of public policy at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Demand is recovering but rising fuel prices may short-circuit that.''
The Air Transport Association said last week that passenger revenue had grown 10 percent in January compared with the same time last year. That was the 13th consecutive month of revenue growth for the airlines.
''We have slightly fuller planes and stronger pricing,'' said John Heimlich, the chief economist at the Air Transport Association. ''There is no question we are enjoying the coattails of a stronger global economy after a very depressed period. We are making up for lost years.''
Some analysts pointed out that one reason traditional carriers could get away with increasing fares was that Southwest, the largest domestic airline, also saw the need to bolster its own fares.
''Southwest has been acting more like a legacy airline,'' Mr. Seaney said.
Prices are inching toward their highest levels, reached in 2008. Still, flying remains relatively affordable, once ticket prices are adjusted for inflation. The average air fare in the third quarter of 2010 -- the latest period for which government estimates are available -- was 20 percent lower than in 2000 after inflation is taken into account, according to the government's Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
The airlines, meanwhile, have been resisting an Obama administration proposal to increase ticket fees to help finance airport projects. The president's budget, released on Feb. 14, would raise the passenger facility charge to a maximum of $7 per flying segment, from the current $4.50, to offset a cut of $1.1 billion to airport grants.
Delta has argued that this increase means that a family of four will pay $112 in ticket fees, instead of $72, assuming they buy round-trip tickets with one stop.
A world of higher fuel prices and higher fees might substantially change the way passengers think of air travel -- less a convenient mode of mass transportation and more a luxury, one analyst said.
''Flying is getting more expensive, there is no question about it,'' said Robert Herbst, a former commercial pilot and independent airline analyst. ''These rising energy costs have to be passed on to consumers. For some, this means flying will become less affordable.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about rising airfares misspelled the surname of a strategist at RBS who commented on the airlines' fare pricing. He is Jeff Straebler, not Streabler.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jet Fuel Costs Are Soaring: The cost of jet fuel has been rising steadily since 2009, but it's still not as high as in July 2008 when prices peaked at $4.18 per gallon. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); AIR FARES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); AIRPORTS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (59%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (59%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011



624 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: United States and Other Nations Step Up Libyan Evacuations

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN; Reporting was contributed by Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul; Brian Knowlton from Washington; Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem; Poypiti Amatatham from Bangkok; Mona El-Naggar from Cairo; and Rachel Donadio from Rome.

 BODY:
Whether by plane or bus, ferry or foot, tens of thousands of foreign citizens -- including hundreds of Americans -- were scrambling to find a way out of Libya on Wednesday as forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi fought to maintain control of a shrinking portion of the oil-rich country.
Turkey appeared to have had the most success in spiriting its people out of the country, packing more than 5,000 onto ferries and planes that left over the last several days. 
The United States, after being turned down for permission to land a chartered plane in Tripoli, sent a ferry Wednesday that was expected to transport about 600 people, mostly Americans, to Malta. The ferry arrived in Tripoli Wednesday, the State Department said, but its departure was delayed by high seas.
The State Department has said several thousand United States citizens, most of them holding dual citizenship, were in Libya when the uprising against Colonel Qaddafi began.
As wealthier nations rushed to coordinate rescues, migrant workers from poorer nations in Asia and Africa -- the majority of the work force there, according to an immigration expert -- were fending for themselves, with their home countries unable to organize evacuations. Many crossed the borders into Tunisia and Egypt by foot or in buses piled high with luggage.
Those fleeing the country, as well as those who had not yet found a way out, described scenes of chaos and deprivation. Protesters claimed that the opposition was taking control of cities close to the capital, Tripoli, where Colonel Qaddafi has mobilized mercenaries and militiamen to defend his stronghold.
One worker, Suang Upara from Thailand, reported that Libyans had burglarized the place where he had been living with other migrants.
''They used knives to threaten us and stole everything from us,'' Mr. Upara, 29, said in a phone interview from Benghazi, where more than 200 people were reported to have been killed in a government crackdown.
He said that he was subsisting on one small loaf of bread each day and dirty water filtered through tissue paper.
Chinese reports said that a site run by a Chinese construction company in eastern Libya had been attacked by armed looters who forced nearly 1,000 workers out of their dormitories.
The daunting nature of the evacuation led several nations to turn to others for help. Turkey, which said it had mounted its largest evacuation effort ever, said 21 countries including Russia and the United States had asked for assistance in helping their citizens to leave. Officials in Ankara said that a 27-year-old Turkish worker had been killed in Tripoli, but they gave no details.
Israel, meanwhile, agreed to allow about 300 Palestinians into the West Bank even though they did not have residency documents for the territory. While the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, welcomed Israel's offer, he had asked for thousands to be allowed entry, according to the official Palestinian news agency Wafa.
The International Organization for Migration, an intergovernmental agency, estimates that as many as 1.5 million migrants were working in Libya at the start of the strife, which appears to have led to the deaths of hundreds of Libyans. Many of the migrants came to work in the country's construction industry, which had been booming, and in its rich oil fields.
The huge numbers of people forced to flee quickly were exacerbating fears in Europe that countries like Italy would be flooded with needy people, leading Italy's foreign minister to refer to a possible ''biblical exodus.''
Although Turkey had rescued thousands of its citizens by Wednesday, about 25,000 were still stranded. Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said that Turkey would keep ferries running nonstop and was expecting at least some to carry medical and food supplies for Libyan civilians.
With civilian flights overwhelmed by the numbers of people trying to leave, governments from around the world were trying to send ships and chartered aircraft.
Two Italian naval vessels headed to eastern Libyan ports to rescue citizens from Benghazi and other cities where airports were damaged.
The Chinese government moved to evacuate about 2,900 of its estimated 30,000 workers from Libya, the Xinhua news agency reported. And the Foreign Ministry of Jordan said that a Royal Jordanian plane carrying 285 citizens was expected to arrive from Libya and that another 90 crossed safely by land into Egypt on Wednesday.
Jean-Philippe Chauzy, chief spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, said that many migrants from poorer nations were ''bunkering down for the moment.''
''Over the past 18 hours,'' he said Wednesday, there were ''only four nationals from Guinea who have made it to Tunisia.''
''That's certainly not representative of the sub-Saharan Africans employed in Libya,'' he said. ''It's a trickle.''
On Wednesday, Italy's foreign minister, Franco Frattini, warned lawmakers that as many as 300,000 migrant workers in Libya could seek refuge in Europe, with many ending up in nearby countries, including Italy and Greece.
''We are not asking Europe to distribute the immigrants across its territory, but we are asking for a serious mechanism on how to split the economic and social burden of an immigration wave,'' he said. ''Europe needs to assume its duties.''
But Mr. Chauzy said those sorts of warnings were premature. For those who cannot flee by air or sea, the major points of exit will continue to be Egypt and Tunisia, he said.
As migrants poured across both borders, Mr. Chauzy said there were reports that African workers desperate to leave but lacking money were trying to reach Libya's southern border with Niger -- a desert trek of more than 1,000 miles.
''It's pretty awful,'' he said, ''even in the best of times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tunisian citizens who had been living in Libya returned to Tunisia at the Ras Jedir border crossing on Wednesday. Other foreigners were heading for Egypt.
 At the Ras Jedir border crossing in Tunisia, a woman and child waited at a passport control booth. Foreigners were leaving Libya on foot or by bus.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); 2011 LIBYAN UPRISING (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BURGLARY (63%); CITIZENSHIP (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); TUNISIA (94%); TURKEY (94%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



625 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLOM, JOSEPH H

 BODY:
FLOM--Joseph H. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP mourn the death of Joseph H. Flom, who joined Skadden, Arps as the firm's first associate in 1948. Over the course of a singularly distinguished law career, he fundamentally transformed the practice of corporate law, while guiding Skadden from a four-lawyer firm to a global law firm with 2,000 attorneys and scores of practice areas. Joe combined a brilliant intellect, impeccable judgment and relentless dedication, which he applied to everything he touched with true humility. A most trusted adviser, beloved and respected partner and mentor, faithful friend and formidable adversary, he was, in every sense, a great man. The consummate deal attorney smart, strategic and tireless he was among the first to drive mergers and acquisitions to the top of corporate agendas; and, in 1999, he was named one of the "lawyers of the century" by The American Lawyer. 
With a steady hand and clear vision, he set the course for Skadden's development, never wavering from his principles of unparalleled legal advice, loyalty to his colleagues and peers, and social responsibility. Joe was a dedicated humanitarian, supporting education and equal opportunity in the legal profession, and likely would have wanted to be remembered most for his philanthropic endeavors. He was particularly gratified by the enduring work of the Skadden Fellowship Foundation, of which he was the founding trustee in 1988. More recently, Joe led the development of the Skadden Honors Program in Legal Studies at City College of New York, an initiative designed to increase diversity in the legal profession. Along with his first wife, Claire, who predeceased him in 2007, Joe supported the Gateway School in New York founded by Claire for students with learning disabilities. They also supported cancer research at the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center Health System, among other institutions and causes. More recently, he and his wife Judi provided significant financial support for the widely praised "Play Me, I'm Yours" public installation of 60 pianos in all five boroughs of New York City for several weeks last summer. In addition to his law practice, Joe served on numerous corporate boards and was a trustee of the Carroll and Milton Petrie Foundation. In 2005, Joe and the Petrie Foundation provided funding for the creation of the Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology and Bioethics at Harvard Law School to promote an interdisciplinary analysis of legal issues in the areas of health care, biotechnology and bioethics. He volunteered his time and expertise to numerous other educational and civic organizations, including the Harvard Law School Dean's Advisory Board; The City College 21st Century Foundation; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; the Council on Foreign Relations; the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; the New York City Commission on the Bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution; the New York City Operation Welcome Home Commission; the New York City Commission on the Status of Women; the Archdiocesan Task Force on Crime Prevention and Youth; the New York City Holocaust Memorial Commission; the Mayor's Council of Economic Advisors; the Metropolitan Museum of Art; the United Way of New York City; the America-Israel Friendship League; and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center Health System. Joe is survived by his wife Judi, sons Jason and Peter, and daughter Nancy Laing, as well as six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. He will be deeply missed and always cherished by all who knew him. The family is holding a private remembrance. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Skadden Fellowship Foundation for the support of new projects undertaken by former Skadden Fellows. The address is: Skadden Fellowship Foundation, Four Times Square, Room 29/218, New York, N.Y., 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); ETHICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); LEGAL EDUCATION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); CHARITIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); BIOETHICS (67%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (66%); ONCOLOGY (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (54%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); CANCER (50%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (98%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



626 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Obama Condemns Libya Amid Stalled Evacuation

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama broke four days of silence on Wednesday to ''strongly condemn'' the Libyan government's violent crackdown on protesters and said his administration was considering a range of responses to the bloody clashes unfolding in the oil-rich North African state.
Calling it ''imperative that the nations and peoples of the world speak with one voice,'' Mr. Obama said he was dispatching Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to Geneva next Monday to meet with top diplomats on how to respond to the crisis. ''The suffering and bloodshed is outrageous, and it is unacceptable,'' Mr. Obama said at the White House after meeting with Mrs. Clinton. ''These actions violate international norms and every standard of common decency. This violence must stop.'' 
Mr. Obama made no mention of the Libyan strongman, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, reflecting the administration's worry about the safety of American diplomats and their families in Tripoli, where a ferry meant to evacuate Americans was still stuck at the port, penned in by high winds in the Mediterranean. Mr. Obama has been coming under fire from critics who said he has not been tough enough against Colonel Qaddafi in the wake of the violent crackdown by pro-Qaddafi forces against demonstrators.
In his remarks Wednesday, Mr. Obama said that the Libyan government has a ''responsibility to refrain from violence,'' adding that ''it must be held accountable for its failure to meet those responsibilities.'' But he did not call for the resignation of Colonel Qaddafi, who vowed on Tuesday to fight against the uprising until ''the last drop of my blood.''
Mr. Obama now joins the list of American presidents bedeviled over the past 40 years by the man whom Ronald Reagan called the ''mad dog of the Middle East.''
Administration officials said they were considering sanctions to try to influence Colonel Qaddafi. The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, refused to say whether sanctions might include a no-fly zone over Libya, but Mrs. Clinton, without addressing the no-fly option, said Tuesday that ''everything will be on the table.''
She said the administration ''will look at all the possible options to put an end to the violence, to try to influence the government.''
But foreign policy experts were quick to point out shortcomings in both economic sanctions and a no-fly zone. In the case of sanctions, the United States cannot do much by itself against Libya because the two countries only recently re-established diplomatic relations, and America has little economic influence there.
The United States will work with other countries on multilateral sanctions, but that would have to be done through the United Nations, which means involving countries like China that do not like imposing sanctions.
Setting up a no-fly zone would be even more difficult -- it would most likely have to be enforced by NATO and establishing rules of engagement would be difficult. In addition, the Arab League would be likely to balk at what its members would consider an infringement on Libyan sovereignty, foreign policy experts said.
Mr. Obama's announcement came as senior diplomats fanned out across North Africa and the Persian Gulf. The under secretary of state for political affairs, William J. Burns, was in Tunis on Wednesday after stopping in Cairo. Jeffrey D. Feltman, the assistant secretary responsible for the Middle East, began a trip that will take him to Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman and the United Arab Emirates.
Meanwhile, administration officials were working furiously, with an eye on weather maps, to move the ferry of Americans out of Tripoli. With 35 diplomats and their dependents in the country, as well as about 600 other American citizens, the administration has worried that threatening Colonel Qaddafi personally could provoke him to take Americans hostage.
On Monday, the State Department ordered its diplomats to evacuate Libya. But the effort has been hampered by a shortage of seats on commercial flights and the refusal of Libyan authorities to allow flights chartered by the United States government to land in Tripoli. The State Department chartered a ferry, with a capacity of 575 people, to sail from the Mediterranean island of Malta to Tripoli.
But rough seas delayed the ship's arrival, a senior official said, and made several consular officers aboard seasick on the passage over. Now the ship is tied up at a pier in Tripoli, waiting for the seas to calm.
The frantic effort to get diplomats and other citizens out of Libya filtered into a meeting Mrs. Clinton held with Brazil's foreign minister, Antonio Patriota. When Mr. Patriota told her Brazilian nationals were seeking to leave Tripoli, a senior administration official said, Mrs. Clinton told him there was still space on the American-chartered ferry.
As the administration grappled with the tenor of public remarks on Libya until it could evacuate Americans, administration officials continued to give Bahrain's besieged royal family time to demonstrate that its offer of dialogue with protesters there was genuine. Mrs. Clinton and other officials praised the offer, as well as Bahrain's decision to release 23 political prisoners, as a positive step.
The administration's modulated approach, officials said, reflected both the royal family's decision to pull back its security forces, as well as the recognition that the unrest in Bahrain was not a black-and-white case of economically frustrated young people rebelling against an autocratic regime. The protests have laid bare the resentment of a Shiite majority discriminated against by a Sunni leadership.
Bahrain dispatched a former police chief who is close to the royal family to plead its case with the administration. The special envoy, Abdul Latif al-Zayani, said he encouraged American officials to lend public support to a dialogue proposed by the crown prince, Sheik Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa. Protesters have demanded the resignation of key government officials as a sign of Bahrain's commitment to change.
''We have all it takes to be a successful role model for the region,'' Mr. al-Zayani said in an interview Tuesday. ''This is an opportunity to show that there is a peaceful way to resolve these things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said he was sending Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to Geneva. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); WEATHER (67%); RESIGNATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



627 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: Business Group With U.S. Ties Takes Sides in Nicaragua

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Andrew W. Lehren contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As president of the American Chamber of Commerce of Nicaragua, Roger Arteaga Cano routinely dealt with business issues and trade practices affecting members like ExxonMobil or Citigroup. But he also led an unusual campaign: organizing secret meetings with opposition party leaders in an effort to oust President Daniel Ortega in an election this year.
A former official in the previous government led by a rival party, Mr. Arteaga turned the chamber into a harsh critic of Mr. Ortega, the leftist Sandinista party leader and longtime adversary of the United States.
On the group's behalf, Mr. Arteaga issued fiery denunciations of the Nicaraguan government and its governing party, calling its policies unconstitutional and its style that of ''gangsters'' or ''terrorists.'' He briefed officials at the United States Embassy in Managua, the capital, and in Washington on his efforts to spur an effective challenge to Mr. Ortega, winning their tacit approval. 
The chamber's activities over the past two years -- detailed in interviews with Nicaraguan officials and business executives and in State Department cables obtained by WikiLeaks -- illuminate the remarkable role the foreign affiliates of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce sometimes play in the politics of their host nations. Occasionally, they are at odds with United States policy. But often, the chamber groups are so aligned with it that they appear to act as unofficial instruments to advance the American government's goals.
Created more than a century ago to promote the interests of American corporations, the groups -- nicknamed AmChams -- today operate in more than 100 countries. While many affiliates appear to restrict their activities to issues like opening access to government contracts or combating the counterfeiting of name-brand goods, others, like the Nicaraguan group, seek broader influence, echoing the role increasingly played in Washington by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
In Honduras, for example, executives at the American-affiliated chamber expressed support for the June 2009 coup d'etat that forced out President Jose Manuel Zelaya, the State Department cables say. After leaders in the group applied pressure on the Obama administration, American officials retreated from their initial demands that Mr. Zelaya be allowed to return to power.
In Taiwan, the chamber got into a nasty public dispute with a pro-independence party there, suggesting that the party was holding the island hostage to its belief that trade between China and Taiwan should be limited, the cables say.
Kevin Casas-Zamora, who served as a minister of economic policy and second vice president of Costa Rica until 2007, said that overt political action by a United States-affiliated business group was almost always counterproductive.
''It is a really bad idea, and it tends to backfire,'' he said, noting that the logo for the American Chamber of Commerce of Nicaragua included the United States flag. ''You are simply handing on a platter a rhetorical weapon that someone like Ortega will surely use against you.''
Indeed, the political intervention embraced by Mr. Arteaga -- he has just stepped down after his two-year term as the chamber's president -- has been denounced by the Nicaraguan government and other supporters of Mr. Ortega as unwelcome meddling by the United States.
''Every time outside forces have sought to interfere in Nicaragua's internal affairs, the result has been harmful to the Nicaraguan people,'' Francisco Campbell, the Nicaraguan ambassador to the United States, said in an interview.
Executives at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, who came under scrutiny last year for spending tens of millions of dollars on advertising that helped Republicans in the midterm Congressional elections, said it had played no role in instigating political activity by foreign chamber groups.
''AmChams are independent of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in terms of the policies they advocate,'' a chamber spokeswoman said in a statement. The United States chamber collects dues from its international members, and approves the creation of any new foreign affiliate.
In 2009, when Mr. Arteaga took over as the unpaid president of the chamber in Nicaragua -- his small consulting firm has a corporate client based in the United States, making him eligible for membership -- he began challenging Mr. Ortega almost from the start. The former top federal tax official under a previous administration, Mr. Arteaga was driven by disdain for Mr. Ortega, who was elected in 2006, after serving as president from 1985 to 1990 and as a leader of the post-revolution junta from 1979 to 1985.
The animosity only grew as the Ortega government took actions that the chamber -- along with many other groups in Nicaragua -- viewed as violating the rule of law in an effort to expand its power, like a ruling that Mr. Ortega could run again for president this year, even though the Constitution prohibits a sitting president from seeking re-election.
''He has violated the Constitution of this country so many times he deserves a spot in the Guinness record book,'' Mr. Arteaga said, adding that such steps discouraged investment by American companies. ''The business community is worried. There is bread now, but there will be hunger tomorrow.''
A History of Unsubtle Aid
During the Reagan administration, the Central Intelligence Agency secretly provided aid to right-wing rebels who tried to overthrow Mr. Ortega, assistance that ultimately resulted in the Iran-contra scandal. Since then, Washington has tried to play its hand more subtly, the State Department cables show, in part by encouraging business and civic leaders in Nicaragua to rally behind pro-American candidates or take stances supporting American views.
During the administration of President George W. Bush, for example, United States officials considered asking General Electric's corporate financing division to pressure Carlos Pellas, a prominent Nicaraguan banker and sugar mill executive, to support one of Mr. Ortega's rivals, according to a March 2006 cable. (The cables do not make it clear whether the proposal was ever carried out.)
While the Obama administration has tried to refrain from intervening in domestic politics, Mr. Arteaga was not so shy. Working behind the scenes, he helped organize meetings for leaders of opposition parties, urging them to put aside their personal political ambitions and support a single candidate or party to challenge the president.
After one such gathering in December 2009, the American Embassy noted Mr. Arteaga's role in cables to Washington.
''The group has been working for the last several months to bring opposition groups, civil society, and the business community together to confront President Daniel Ortega, preserve democratic space, and form a united bloc to challenge Ortega and/or the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) in the 2011 national elections,'' the cable said. An earlier cable, in August 2009, called Mr. Arteaga one of the two primary leaders of the opposition unity effort.
Robert J. Callahan, the United States ambassador to Nicaragua, confirmed in a telephone interview that he had attended the December 2009 meeting with Mr. Arteaga at the home of Cesar Zamora, Mr. Arteaga's predecessor as chamber president and an executive of AEI, a Houston-based energy company.
But the American government did not request any of the actions taken by Mr. Arteaga and other business executives, he said. ''If they are articulating policies that we agree with, then fine, it is a coincidence of views there,'' he said. Mr. Callahan added that the goal of the United States was to encourage a vibrant democracy in Nicaragua.
Yet cables sent by Mr. Callahan to Washington go a bit further, suggesting that the embassy at least indirectly encouraged groups like the chamber to work to unify the opposition to Mr. Ortega and his party.
''We will continue to encourage all pro-democratic groups to work together to advance their common goals, including uniting for 2011,'' said an August 2009 cable, which also mentions Mr. Arteaga and his role as American Chamber president. ''It is clear that this message has been understood by some in the political and business community, fostering the above unity efforts.''
Mr. Arteaga, in an interview, said his effort to unify the opposition was supported by some chamber members and representatives on its board, an assertion confirmed by several chamber members. Mr. Arteaga added that his intervention came not at the request of any American corporation, but reflected a consensus of chamber members. But in a second interview, he said he was acting on his own, particularly in endorsing an opposition presidential candidate.
Politics and Appearances
Such a distinction was not always recognized by others. Mr. Arteaga said he was investigated by Nicaraguan officials who asked for the chamber's financial records as well as his own to see if he was secretly being paid $10,000 a month by the Central Intelligence Agency. (Both Mr. Arteaga and Mr. Callahan denied any payments.)
But the appearance that the United States was intervening in Nicaraguan affairs -- through actions by the American Chamber or the embassy there -- provoked an angry response.
In October 2009, after Mr. Callahan spoke at an event sponsored by the American Chamber of Commerce and echoed comments by chamber leaders condemning a Supreme Court decision allowing Mr. Ortega to run for re-election despite term limits, hundreds of demonstrators appeared outside the United States Embassy in Managua. Holding up signs saying ''Death to Empire'' and ''Yankee Go Home,'' some protesters even launched explosive projectiles at the building, according to a State Department cable.
Last month, a newspaper in Nicaragua accused Mr. Arteaga of turning the chamber into a ''political conspiracies' nest,'' a charge that drew a defense from the United States ambassador, who said the story falsely claimed that he believed that Mr. Arteaga had gone too far.
''We reiterate our excellent working relationship with the AmCham, and excellent and fluid relations and friendship with its director, Roger Arteaga,'' an embassy statement said.
Change of Direction
Yali Molina Palacios, an international lawyer who just succeeded Mr. Arteaga as the chamber president, said in an interview that the chamber's efforts to unify the opposition to Mr. Ortega had not succeeded, and that he would curtail them.
Mr. Molina said that the American Chamber would continue to speak up if the Ortega administration took actions that violated the Constitution. But his own reading of the organization's bylaws makes clear that the chamber is prohibited from endorsing political candidates, he said.
He pointed out that Nicaragua's economy appeared to be growing and that foreign investment was on the rise. And Mr. Ortega is likely to win re-election in November.
''Don't get enemies,'' Mr. Molina said. ''Get friends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ambassador Robert J. Callahan, right, has noted the political work of the American Chamber of Commerce of Nicaragua. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTEBAN FELIX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); COUPS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: MANUEL ZELAYA (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (92%); HONDURAS (79%); CHINA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



628 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Top Shiites Urge Iraqis To Delay Protests

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and YASIR GHAZI; Khalid D. Ali contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iraq's top Shiite religious leaders, the populist cleric Moktada al-Sadr and Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, called Wednesday for Iraqis to defer their protests, leading many members of the country's Shiite majority to say they would not join in nationwide demonstrations scheduled for Friday.
Many Sunnis said they still planned to go ahead with the demonstrations, which are being billed as a ''day of rage.'' But the Shiite withdrawal dealt a significant blow to protest organizers, who had hoped to fill Iraq's streets with millions of people to call for improved government services. 
The appeals from Mr. Sadr came as he returned to Iraq from Iran, where he is studying to become a powerful religious leader.
Mr. Sadr, however, did not make the appeal himself. At a news conference in Baghdad, a top leader of his movement said Iraqis should put off any protests for six months, giving the recently formed government a chance to improve the economy and services like electricity.
Just a week ago, Mr. Sadr issued a statement saying that over a million of his supporters should protest peacefully to motivate the government to improve its services. He said the government was unlikely to do so because the United States occupied the country and there was rampant corruption in the Iraqi government.
His followers took note of the latest signal. ''I will not go out for the demonstration and I will not do or say anything unless Moktada says so,'' said Imad Ali, a 41-year-old Shiite from Sadr City, a poor Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad.
A spokesman for Ayatollah Sistani, meanwhile, issued a statement saying that the ayatollah sympathized with the demands of the people but that the demonstration could be ''out of control'' and ''be exploited by people with special agendas.''
The statements from Mr. Sadr were particularly surprising because he has often been at odds with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, whom many protesters blame for the lack of government services.
''This was a huge break for Maliki,'' said Zaid al-Ali, a legal adviser for the United Nations on parliamentary and constitutional issues from 2005 to 2010, in a telephone interview. ''There is a lot of fear among politicians in Iraq about what is going to happen on Friday. Without a lot of Shiite participation, a lot of air will be taken out of the protests.''
Mr. Sadr is widely seen as the only one who can rival Mr. Maliki for the support of the Iraqi people. In 2008, Mr. Maliki sent troops into southern Iraq to clear the cities of Mr. Sadr's militias, ultimately leading Mr. Sadr to abandon them.
But Mr. Sadr's partisans did very well in last March's election and later provided key support to Mr. Maliki so he could continue to be prime minister.
''It's almost impossible to know why Sadr would help Maliki like this,'' Mr. Ali said, ''but his party is now part of the government and he likely doesn't want to see the government fall or be weakened by this.''
According to a top Sadrist leader, Hazem Araji, Mr. Sadr plans to organize an informal referendum, beginning Sunday, to ask Iraqis if they think that the government has improved its services and whether they would protest against the government in six months if the services had not improved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



629 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
FOREIGNERS EVACUATE LIBYA
As Unrest Continues
Thousands of foreign citizens -- including hundreds of Americans -- were scrambling to find a way out of Libya as forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi fought pitched battles to maintain control of a shrinking portion of the oil-rich country. PAGE A4 
Search for Quake Survivors A6
National
ARIZONA LAWMAKERS PUSH
New Immigration Rules
Arizona lawmakers are proposing a sweeping package of immigration restrictions that would bar immigrants from enrolling in school, from driving anywhere in the state and from receiving most public benefits. The offspring of illegal immigrants would receive special birth certificates that would make it clear that the state does not consider them Arizona citizens. PAGE A16
POLITICAL TUMULT IN CHICAGO
When Rahm Emanuel, the former chief of staff to President Obama, takes over as Chicago's mayor in May, it is expected to upend the politics of this city -- not only because things have been mostly the same there for so long, but also because of Mr. Emanuel's harsh style, his relationships and rivals, and because of the enormous challenges facing the nation's third-largest city. PAGE A19
New York
GOVERNORS DON'T AGREE
That Christie Is Their Model
This week, Gov. Chris Christie billed himself as a different kind of national leader. When other states close budget deficits and curb rising costs, he said in unveiling his budget plan, they are using New Jersey's playbook. But other governors say they are not modeling their policies after Gov. Christie, but adhering to austerity plans necessitated by the lagging economy. PAGE A23
Business
OPPOSITION ARISES
To Charities' Merger
The announcement last week of a merger between Smile Train and Operation Smile -- two long-estranged charity organizations that work to repair cleft lips and palates of children in poor countries -- has prompted some board members from one group to complain about the deal's unusual financial structure. PAGE B1
Sports
LABOR DISPUTE UPENDS
N.F.L.'s Staid World
If N.F.L. team owners and the players union do not agree on a new labor agreement by March 3, there will be no football activity of any kind, other than preparations for the draft in April, until one gets done. PAGE B13
Arts
COMING OF AGE
With a Sharp Eye
On the surface, Alison Espach's novel, ''The Adults,'' is the coming-of-age story of a disaffected girl in wealthy, leafy Connecticut. But Janet Maslin writes that its sweep is larger than might be expected by that premise, and the girl, Emily Vidal, is a lot more interesting than the sum of her spoiled suburban parts. PAGE C1
Dance Review: 'Esplanade' C1
Home
TRIMMING LIVING ESSENTIALS
To a Bed and a Roof
Derek Diedricksen makes playful micro-homes out of junk -- most of them only several feet wide and high. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
A VIOLINIST STRADDLES
Classical Music and Fashion
Despite sharing a lease at Lincoln Center, the classical-music and fashion industries tend to be mutually exclusive. But for Hahn-Bin, a 22-year-old protege of the eminent violinist Itzhak Perlman who holds Mozart and Warhol in equal esteem, they are complementary. PAGE E1
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A27
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (86%); CHARITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); POLITICS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (68%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



630 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Revenge of the Pomeranians

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Right now concerned citizens are probably asking themselves: What will happen if the federal government shuts down?
Also, why is the federal government in danger of shutting down? Whom can I blame for this? Does it have anything to do with what's going on in Wisconsin? Did Congress pass a budget last year at all? Why not? And does this relate in any way to the report that Christine O'Donnell, the former United States Senate candidate from Delaware, may be joining the next cast of ''Dancing With the Stars?''
Wow, you are really asking yourselves a lot of questions, concerned citizens. Calm down. 
Right now, all around the country, federal agencies are making plans for an orderly way to shut down nonessential services if Congress fails to do anything to keep the boat afloat next week. The air traffic controllers will stay on the job, but I would not plan any visits to a national park if I were you.
Hundreds of thousands of nonessential federal employees will be furloughed, stuck at home without a paycheck and contemplating their nonessentialness. The economy will tank. Nobody is going to be happy.
Except perhaps some of the House members who prowl the corridors yowling about deficits like accountants on crack. They think they were elected to shut down the government, so the idea of closing nonessential services must sound like a day at the beach.
All hope for averting disaster lies with Speaker John Boehner, who used to be a strangely tanned blowhard but is now regarded as a beleaguered statesman. This just happened a few days ago, so you may not have gotten the memo.
Unfortunately, so far, Speaker Boehner has not been all that helpful. There is very little in Washington that can't be explained by an episode of the original ''Star Trek,'' and Boehner is playing out the one where the Romulan captain prefers the ways of peace but is saddled with a crew that will mutiny if he fails to follow through on the plan to blow up the galaxy.
Our current problem began last year when Congress never got around to passing any appropriations bills. It's not all that unusual for our elected officials to fail to complete their budgetary duties, but this was the first time they didn't accomplish anything. Really, you'd think they would have issued a stamp to commemorate the achievement.
To keep the government going, the House and Senate passed resolutions ordering the agencies to keep doing whatever they'd been doing before. The latest resolution expires next week, and the new, transformed House wants to tell the agencies to do less. Last week, it passed a bill calling for a vast degree of lessness.
This happened without a whole lot of preplanning. Although the Republicans are obsessed with stopping illegal immigration, they cut billions of dollars out of border security and immigration enforcement. ''Even with all the money in the world, the administration would not succeed in securing the border because they are not serious about it,'' theorized Lamar Smith, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
President Obama, who has actually done quite a lot about border security, says he would veto the House version, which would wreak havoc with everything from veterans' health care to Head Start. So the clock is ticking. To make things even more dramatic, the Senate's metabolism is unchanged, and everyone has gone home to enjoy a much-needed vacation after two exhausting months during which the senators passed a bill on the Federal Aviation Administration and congratulated Barbara Mikulski on being the longest-serving female senator.
One thing that never changes in Washington is the difference in metabolism between the House and Senate. Have you ever watched pet-rehabilitation shows like ''The Dog Whisperer''? The House is the deranged Pomeranian that yelps and throws itself against the window and tears up the upholstery 24/7. The Senate, meanwhile, is like a narcoleptic Great Dane you can hardly rouse for dinner.
The senators are scheduled to get back into the swing of things on Monday with a reading of George Washington's farewell address. Then the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, has until Friday to come up with a plan. It's quite a challenge. No doubt it was much on his mind when he made a big speech to the Nevada State Legislature this week and surprised everyone by demanding that the state have an ''adult conversation'' about its legal brothels. It did not appear to be the problem the politicians were expecting to tackle next.
Still, you can understand his eagerness to talk about something nonbudgetary. I can't wait to move on to that question about Christine O'Donnell and ''Dancing With the Stars,'' which I am pretty sure will not require an argument about entitlements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); IMMIGRATION (60%); BORDER CONTROL (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011



631 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Ford Tries a Global Campaign for its Global Car

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN 2008, the last time the price of a barrel of oil was in three digits, James D. Farley recalls that his company, Ford Motor, was readying a new version of its big F-150 truck.
Now, as oil flirts again with a triple-digit price tag, Ford Motor is introducing a worldwide line of compact cars under the Ford Focus name that will include hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric models. The company hopes it can sell a million Focuses -- Foci? -- in the next 12 months.
''Many of you asked, 'Hey, Jim, what's it like to be launching the F-150 in the face of $4 gas?' '' Mr. Farley, group vice president for global marketing, sales and service at Ford, said to reporters at a news conference on Thursday. 
Now, he added, ''I feel very fortunate to be in a position that so much of our brand lineup is new product'' in smaller size categories like the compact Focus and the subcompact Fiesta.
Ford is calling the 2012 Focus its first truly global product -- that is, created from scratch to share as many parts as possible wherever it is built or sold.
''We've tried 'world cars' before,'' Mr. Farley said. ''But never this approach.''
So it is appropriate that the Focus is the subject of what Ford Motor is calling its first truly global product advertising campaign; the company has previously run ads worldwide meant to burnish its corporate or brand images.
''Frankly, I never expected to have one campaign,'' Mr. Farley said. ''The last time we launched a car, we had eight.''
Television and print ads will look similar from country to country; digital ads, on Web sites and in social media, will be more customized for local markets.
Despite the ''It's a Small World'' tack, the ads will not address the global origins of the Focus by having, say, a British voice-over announcer in American commercials (or vice versa).
''That doesn't matter to customers,'' Mr. Farley said. ''They just want to buy the best product.''
The campaign is to begin on Tuesday during an episode of ''American Idol,'' which Ford Motor regularly sponsors. The campaign will follow the roll-out of the Focus to dealer showrooms, first in the United States, then in Europe, then in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. It will reach China and South America next year.
Reflecting that the Focus is, Mr. Farley said, ''a really, really important car'' to Ford Motor's efforts to thrive in a hyper-competitive automotive industry, it will get ''the biggest launch we've ever had, the biggest media weight.''
''I can't give you a figure,'' he added, ''but it's hundreds of millions of dollars, just for '11.'' Ford Motor spends an estimated $4 billion each year on worldwide advertising.
The campaign is being produced by Global Team Ford, a unit of WPP that is a consortium of agencies devoted to all things Ford Motor. There are offices in London; Shanghai; Sao Paulo, Brazil; and Dearborn, Mich., near the Ford Motor world headquarters.
Greg Burke, creative director at the London office, known as Blue Hive, is taking the creative lead, under the supervision of Toby Barlow, the chief creative officer at Global Team Ford, who is also executive vice president and chief creative officer at Team Detroit, the office in Dearborn that works on campaigns for North America.
Mr. Barlow also attended the news conference, part of a contingent of executives from Global Team Ford, WPP and Ford Motor. The phalanx included an actual Ford: Elena Ford, a great-granddaughter of Henry Ford, who is director for global marketing, sales and service.
Also present was Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, who shared a stage at the news conference with Mr. Farley; they took turns describing the Focus campaign and answering questions, for more than an hour. The event was held at the headquarters of a Global Team Ford agency, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, on the West Side of Manhattan. Mr. Sorrell's presence underlined that Ford Motor is, as he put it, ''our largest relationship, our most complex relationship'' out of all WPP clients. About 3,000 of WPP's 140,000 total employees work for Global Team Ford.
The Focus campaign will zero in on what Ford Motor considers to be the technological advantages of the car -- features like assisted parking and Wi-Fi hot-spot capability that are typically found only on larger, more expensive cars. (In the United States, Focus prices will range from $16,995 to about $27,000.)
That democratizing of technology is a strategy by Alan R. Mulally, Ford's chief executive, to add value to smaller cars to convince consumers that they are worth paying more for than previous pared-down models with dismissive descriptors like econo-boxes.
''One of the biggest challenges in the launch was explaining the bet we made around the product,'' Mr. Farley said. ''The bet was technology,'' he added, because it is ''the essence of what makes our product different.''
The initial batch of 50 television commercials is devoted to highlighting 14 technological features. Each spot will run 15 to 20 seconds and use the Ford brand theme, ''Drive one,'' and a Focus theme, ''Feel the difference.''
''Our research shows that shorter commercials are maybe a smidgen less effective than 30- or 60-second spots,'' Mr. Sorrell said. The lower cost of air time compensates for that.
Some commercials will ''tell a fuel-economy story,'' said George S. Rogers, the Ford Motor global client leader for WPP who was also at the news conference. The base-model Focus, with automatic transmission, is expected to get 40 miles a gallon.
Those commercials could start to appear more frequently if, as Mr. Sorrell said, oil prices reach $100 a barrel, ''or, maybe as some people are saying, $150.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James D. Farley, above left, Ford's group vice president for global marketing, sales and service, with Martin Sorrell, chief of WPP, on Thursday. Left, a Ford Focus print ad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONIKA GRAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); BRANDING (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (62%); REALITY TELEVISION (62%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



632 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Drilling for an Oil Crisis

BYLINE: By MICHAEL C. LYNCH. 
Michael C. Lynch, the former director for Asian energy and security at the Center for International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is an energy consultant.

 BODY:
Amherst, Mass.
AS WikiLeaks's trove of diplomatic dispatches continues to trickle out, one recent release has caused quite a stir: a cable from an American diplomat who said he was told by a Saudi oil executive that both official estimates of Saudi oil reserves and their ability to meet global demand in the long run have been vastly exaggerated. In turn, many proponents of ''peak oil'' theory, the idea that the global rate of oil production has entered a terminal decline, have insisted that the cable confirms their view on resource scarcity.
Actually, it does nothing of the sort. The Saudi executive, Sadad al-Husseini, a former head of exploration for the Saudi oil monopoly Aramco, has been making such claims for years. Finding them repeated in a confidential cable is news only to those unfamiliar with the field. 
More important, his claims don't stand up to scrutiny. For one thing, according to the cable, Dr. Husseini said that estimates of Saudi ''reserves'' were exaggerated by some 300 billion barrels. But this is impossible, as the Saudi government's estimate of proven reserves is actually less than that amount -- roughly 267 billion barrels.
More likely, Dr. Husseini was referring to claims by some Saudi oil executives that, over the long term, they expect to find 900 billion barrels in the ground, and that 51 percent of it will be recoverable. So the dispute has nothing to do with current reserves, but with projections that are speculative by definition. Aramco's numbers may be an educated guess, but experts in the field know they are just a guess.
And, in fact, they are hardly an unreasonable estimate. While peak-oil advocates have in the past ridiculed optimistic industry expectations, the evidence continues to confound them. Over recent decades, the consensus estimates of the amount of recoverable oil on the planet have roughly doubled. And recovery rates -- the percentage of those reserves that we are technologically able to collect -- have grown from 10 percent a century ago, to 25 percent a half-century ago, to an estimated 35 percent now. In some areas, like the North Sea, the figure is above 60 percent.
There are several other reasons to remain calm about Saudi reserves. Officials there have discovered approximately 70 major oil fields that they have left untapped over concerns that increased Saudi production would cause global oil prices to collapse.
And while Aramco is hardly likely to find anything on the scale of the Ghawar oil field, the world's largest, they haven't been looking very hard. The Saudis drilled about 500 wells last year; some 11,000 are drilled every year in the United States alone.
So why is this a big deal? Because advocates of peak-oil theory love to latch on to such press reports to push their political and environmental agenda. A similar event occurred in the 1970s, when Americans who had worked in the Saudi fields contributed to a Congressional report that claimed Aramco's production practices were damaging the reservoirs.
The problem turned out to be vastly overblown, but not before it had become part of the era's conventional wisdom about general resource scarcity. Little wonder that by 1977 we had President Jimmy Carter claiming that, in terms of oil, ''just to stay even we need ... a new Saudi Arabia every three years.'' Mr. Carter's solution to the imaginary crisis was Synthetic Fuels Corporation, an alternative-energy boondoggle that cost taxpayers millions and never produced a gallon of gas.
Now, history may be repeating itself. Much to the satisfaction of the peak-oil crowd, the Obama administration is throwing federal subsidies -- some $8 billion in its 2012 budget -- at all sorts of unproven, unrealistic and inefficient energy technologies like wind farms and electric cars.
None of this is to say that importing Saudi oil -- or any oil -- is desirable in and of itself. Oil remains a political commodity, and price fluctuations can create economic havoc, so the more good choices we have for meeting our energy needs, the better. But we should not let a false panic over disappearing oil reserves lead to rushed government investments in ''technologies of the future'' that, all too often, end up only wasting taxpayer money.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



633 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Shared Sacrifice: A Sliding Scale?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Make Everybody Hurt,'' by David Brooks (column, Feb. 22):
When Anatole France wrote that ''the law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets and to steal bread,'' he addressed his own age's version of Mr. Brooks's cant idea that everyone must now share the pain.
The Republican cuts proposed for federal and state budgets will make little difference to the lives of Americans in the upper-income brackets, but they will harshly affect the health, education and security of everyone who is not: a stealth version of the principle of the flat tax by advocates unwilling to call it that. 
Berel Lang Bronx, Feb. 22, 2011
The writer is emeritus professor of philosophy at the State University of New York, Albany.
To the Editor:
David Brooks regards it as a telling point that ''public sector unions help choose those they negotiate with.''
What about the executives and owners of corporations that do business with the government, or are regulated by it? Or the corporate entities themselves, which now have the right to spend unlimited amounts of money to influence elections and policy?
Government workers help choose their bosses; defense contractors help choose their customers; the oil, coal, financial and chemical industries help choose those who would regulate them. I fail to see the distinction.
Jerry Adler Brooklyn, Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks says the critics of Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin who compare him to ''Hitler, Mussolini and Mubarak'' are ''amusingly Orwellian.'' After all, Governor Walker was elected!
Yet, did the governor and his party campaign on the promise of breaking the public sector unions? Did they tell the voters they would, if elected, end the traditional contracting with public unions, and thus ''make everybody hurt''? Talk about Orwellian.
Gerald Cavanaugh Ashland, Ore., Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
I agree with David Brooks's assertion that truly shared sacrifice is the only way out of our fiscal crisis. Nothing of substance or value will happen until each one of us is willing to say, ''Here's something that the government currently provides that I can and will do without.''
I'd like to point out, however, that the public employees are, in fact, taxpayers themselves. They understand that every dollar they receive is, in fact, in part coming out of their own pockets as part of the taxes that they pay every day.
Besides, public employees tend to be local citizens whose paychecks are likely to stay within the local communities they serve.
Robert Rottenberg Brattleboro, Vt., Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks repeats a claim that Gov. Scott Walker makes: As governor, he is simply doing what he said he would do.
In fact, while he said repeatedly that he would ask public employees to pay a bigger share of pensions and health care costs, Mr. Walker did not during his long campaign make clear that he would move to take away bargaining rights, essentially putting public employee unions out of business.
Given the strong reaction to his post-election surprise actions, it is not a stretch to say that if he had been honest with the voters about his plans, he might not have been elected.
Bill Christofferson Milwaukee, Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks's suggestion that we balance the budget by making ''everybody hurt'' obscures a key question: Should we all hurt equally? Or might those with means contribute more?
Rather than balancing the budget on the backs of workers, the poor and unemployed, a just solution includes tax increases for the wealthiest Americans.
Hayden Kantor Ithaca, N.Y., Feb. 22, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (87%); WRITERS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PHILOSOPHY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); CHEMICALS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



634 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Rising Oil Prices Pose New Threat To U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH, CATHERINE RAMPELL and DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
The American economy just can't catch a break.
Last year, as things started looking up, the European debt crisis flustered the fragile recovery. Now, under similar economic circumstances, comes the turmoil in the Middle East.
Energy prices have surged in recent days, as a result of the political violence in Libya that has disrupted oil production there. Prices are also climbing because of fears the unrest may continue to spread to other oil-producing countries.
If the recent rise in oil prices sticks, it will most likely slow a growth rate that is already too sluggish to produce many jobs in this country. Some economists are predicting that oil prices, just above $97 a barrel on Thursday, could be sustained well above $100 a barrel, a benchmark.
Even if energy costs don't rise higher, lingering uncertainty over the stability of the Middle East could drag down growth, not just in the United States but around the world. 
''We've gone beyond responding to the sort of brutal Technicolor of the crisis in Libya,'' said Daniel H. Yergin, the oil historian and chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''There's also a strong element of fear of what's next, and what's next after next.''
Before the outbreak of violence in Libya, the Federal Reserve had raised its forecast for United States growth in 2011, and a stronger stock market had helped consumers be more confident about the future and more willing to spend.
But other sources of economic uncertainty besides oil prices have come into sharper focus in recent days. After a few false starts, housing prices have slid further. New-home sales dropped sharply in January, as did sales of big-ticket items like appliances, the government reported Thursday.
Though the initial panic from last year has faded, Europe's deep debt problems remain, creating another wild card for the global economy. Protests turned violent in Greece this week in response to new austerity measures.
Budget and debt problems at all levels of American government also threaten to crimp the domestic recovery. Struggling state and local governments may dismiss more workers this year as many face their deepest shortfalls since the economic downturn began, and a Congressional stalemate over the country's budget could even lead to a federal government shutdown.
''The irony is that we just barely got ourselves up and off the ground from the devastating financial crisis,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group, who had been optimistic about the country's prospects. ''The recovery itself is less than two years in, and we haven't yet seen jobs make a decent comeback. Now we're being hit with this new, very ominous event, so the timing couldn't be worse.''
Most economists are not yet talking about the United States dipping back into recession, and it is too soon to tell how far the pro-democracy protests that have roiled Egypt, Bahrain and Libya will spread. For now, most analysts are not predicting that Iran and Saudi Arabia, repressive governments that also happen to be two of the world's biggest oil producers, will catch the revolutionary fever.
''But revolutions are notoriously difficult to forecast,'' said Chris Lafakas, an economist at Moody's Analytics who focuses on energy. Disruptions of oil supplies in Saudi Arabia and Iran in particular, he said, ''would be catastrophic for prices. Saudi Arabia alone could cause maybe a 20 to 25 percent increase in oil prices overnight.''
In the last week, oil prices have risen more than 10 percent and even breached $100 a barrel. A sustained $10 increase in oil prices would shave about two-tenths of a percentage point off economic growth, according to Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital. The Federal Reserve had forecast last week that the United States economy would grow by 3.4 to 3.9 percent in 2011, up from 2.9 percent last year.
Higher oil prices restrain growth because they translate to higher fuel prices for consumers and businesses. Mr. Lafakas estimates that oil prices are on track to average $90 a barrel in 2011, from $80 in 2010, an increase that would offset nearly a quarter of the $120 billion payroll tax cut that Congress had intended to stimulate the economy this year.
Rising gasoline prices have already led Jayme Webb, an office manager at a recycling center in Sioux City, Iowa, and her husband, Ken, who works at Wal-Mart, to cut back on spending.
In the last month, they have canceled their satellite television subscription and their Internet service. They have also stopped driving from their home in rural Moville to Sioux City on weekends to see Ms. Webb's parents.
Along with making their commutes to work more expensive, rising oil prices have driven up the cost of food for animals and people. So the couple have stopped buying feed for their dozen sheep and goats and six chickens and instead asked neighboring farmers to let them use scraps from their corn fields.
''It's a struggle,'' said Ms. Webb, 49. ''We have to watch every little penny.''
A cutback in consumer spending reverberates through the economy by crimping businesses, making it less likely that employers will commit to the additional hiring needed to lower the 9 percent unemployment rate.
''Revenue is down, costs are up, and you can't make any money,'' said R. Jerol Kivett, the owner of Kivett's Inc., a company that manufactures pews and other church furniture in Clinton, N.C. ''You're just trying to meet payroll and keep people working, hoping the economy will turn. But it just seems like setback after setback after setback.''
And the money that consumers and businesses spend on oil often does not stay within the American economy. Nor do the expanded coffers in oil-producing countries raise demand for American exports, because they often bank it as reserves.
''The countries that are getting this bonus basically get an enormous benefit,'' said Raghuram G. Rajan, an economics professor at the University of Chicago. ''But if they can't spend it quickly, it doesn't add to aggregate demand.''
The rise in oil prices could also create a vicious cycle, as higher energy costs propel already rising food prices, which in turn can lead to more political unrest and more global uncertainty.
Even without the Middle East, the domestic economy has a number of weaknesses that have proved hard to overcome. The recession was provoked by housing and worsened by housing, and housing is likely to remain frail in parts of the country until the end of the decade.
After a couple of brief growth spurts, home prices have started declining again in earnest.
This week, the Yale economist Robert Shiller speculated about another drop as large as 25 percent. Anything close to that would push millions more households to the point where they owe more on their houses than the houses are worth, generating a lot of sour moods -- which can depress consumer spending -- more foreclosures and potential job losses.
Even absent such a decline, lenders remain cautious, punishing those who never indulged during the boom.
Maria Schneider and Roger Westerman have plenty of equity in their Brooklyn home, and a 17-year record of paying on time. Last fall, the couple tried to capitalize on historically low mortgage rates and refinance.
They estimated they would save $360 a month. But their lender said they were a bad credit risk. The couple, both 48, are self-employed.
''We could be sending all three of our kids to camp this summer instead of just one,'' Mrs. Schneider said.
There are some signs that the economy could weather this latest round of buffeting. Revenue at many companies is back to prerecession levels, said Scott Bohannon, a general manager at the Corporate Executive Board, a research and advisory firm. That suggests companies may start adding equipment, factories and, eventually, workers.
''Of course, if a war breaks out in a significant way or something like that happens,'' he said, ''then I would give you a different answer. Then you're talking about huge shocks to the system.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RIOTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); HISTORY (66%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (68%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



635 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Enlisting Prison Labor to Close Budget Gaps

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN and KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
JAY, Fla. -- Before he went to jail, Danny Ivey had barely seen a backyard garden.
But here he was, two years left on his sentence for grand theft, bent over in a field, snapping wide, green collard leaves from their stems. For the rest of the week, Mr. Ivey and his fellow inmates would be eating the greens he picked, and the State of Florida would be saving most of the $2.29 a day it allots for their meals.
Prison labor -- making license plates, picking up litter -- is nothing new, and nearly all states have such programs. But these days, officials are expanding the practice to combat cuts in federal financing and dwindling tax revenue, using prisoners to paint vehicles, clean courthouses, sweep campsites and perform many other services done before the recession by private contractors or government employees.
In New Jersey, inmates on roadkill patrol clean deer carcasses from highways. Georgia inmates tend municipal graveyards. In Ohio, they paint their own cells. In California, prison officials hope to expand existing programs, including one in which wet-suit-clad inmates repair leaky public water tanks. There are no figures on how many prisoners have been enrolled in new or expanded programs nationwide, but experts in criminal justice have taken note of the increase. 
''There's special urgency in prisons these days,'' said Martin F. Horn, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a former commissioner of the New York City Department of Correction. ''As state budgets get constricted, the public is looking for ways to offset the cost of imprisonment.''
Although inmate labor is helping budgets in many corners of state government, the savings are the largest in corrections departments themselves, which have cut billions of dollars in recent years and are under constant pressure to reduce the roughly $29,000 a year that it costs to incarcerate the average inmate in the United States.
Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, introduced a bill last month to require all low-security prisoners to work 50 hours a week. Creating a national prison labor force has been a goal since he went to Congress in 1995, but it makes even more sense in this economy, he said.
''Think about how much it costs to incarcerate someone,'' Mr. Ensign said. ''Do we want them just sitting in prison, lifting weights, becoming violent and thinking about the next crime? Or do we want them having a little purpose in life and learning a skill?''
Financial experts agree.
''These are nickel-and-dime attempts to cut budgets, but they add up,'' said Alan Essig, an expert on state budgets at the Georgia Budget and Policy Institute. ''You save a dollar here, a dollar there, and you keep your government's functions.''
Technology has made it easier to coordinate. In Hunterdon County, N.J., nonprofit organizations and government agencies can view prisoners' work schedules online and reserve them for a specific task on a free day. (Coming tasks include cleaning up after a Fire Department fish fry and maintaining a public park.)
''Using inmate labor has created unusual alliances: liberal humanitarian groups that advocate more education and exercise in prisons find themselves supporting proposals from conservative budget hawks to get inmates jobs, often outdoors, where they can learn new skills. Having a job in prison has been linked in studies to decreased violence, improved morale and lowered recidivism -- but most effectively, experts say, when the task is purposeful.
''The days of just breaking rocks with sledgehammers'' are over, said Michael P. Jacobson, director of the Vera Institute of Justice, a research group in New York. ''At the grossest financial level, it's just savings. You can cut the government worker, save the salary and still maintain the service, and you're providing a skill for when they leave.''
There are, of course, concerns about public safety and competition with government or private workers. Professor Horn estimates that only 20 percent of inmates present a low enough security threat to work in public. And in some places, even financially struggling governments are not willing to take the risk of employing prisoners.
In Ocala, Fla., after a long debate, the City Council last summer decided to have a private company mow grass, even though using inmates would have saved $1.1 million. ''Our area has been really hard hit by unemployment,'' said Suzy Heinbockel, a Council member. ''There was a belief that the private company would bring local jobs, rather than giving those jobs to prisoners.''
In other areas that have used prison labor to reduce costs, there have been embarrassing results. In Ohio, there was public outcry last year after state investigations found inmates drinking on the job at the governor's mansion and smuggling tobacco back into jail. And in Maryland, a proposal to have prisoners pick blue crabs for a private company was dropped amid concern about food safety.
But the budget savings are worth it, many state officials say. In Florida, where the budget was cut by $4.6 billion this year, analysts say inmate farming could save $2.4 million a year. That is relatively small potatoes, but enough for the new governor, Rick Scott, to call for an expansion of prison farming. The state already uses 550 inmates to grow 4.8 million pounds of produce a year, and the governor has pledged $2.5 million to have more inmates grow their own food.
''It's a win-win,'' said Jeff Mullahey, the director of an agricultural center at the University of Florida whose staff was downsized in 2007 and replaced, in part, by prisoners. ''It's obvious to me why governments should be doing this.''
Inmates arrive at the center from the Century Correctional Institute every weekday, rain or shine, to grow tomatoes, peppers, squash, broccoli and oranges. The partnership with the prison began two years ago, after the university's agriculture program sustained deep budget cuts.
Professors provide farming expertise, and inmates supply the labor and learn marketable skills as fieldworkers. The result has been so successful, providing $192,000 worth of food a year to the prison and saving $75,000 a year for the university, that wardens from around the state have visited to learn about replicating it with their inmates.
No inmates have escaped, and sometimes, Mr. Mullahey said, their criminal backgrounds are assets. Inmates with drug offenses already know how to grow plants, and when a university employee lost the key to a file cabinet, a prisoner with lock-picking experience helped him break in.
The prisoners say farming has made them feel better about themselves. ''The department of corrections is going to find you a job so you might as well do something you want to do and learn something,'' said Randall Riley, 37, who is doing a four-year sentence for habitual driving offenses.
And the savings are not lost on the prisoners either. ''I'm on this side of the fence,'' Mr. Ivey said. ''But my family's on that other side, and they're paying taxes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inmates at the California Institute for Men at Chino going through training in scuba diving to perform underwater welding work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A California program helps inmates learn welding skills, above right, so they can repair leaky public water tanks. In Florida, prisoners grow their own vegetables through a partnership with an agricultural center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MEGGAN HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
 A training session for inmates at the Leonard Greenstone Marine Technology Training Center in Chino, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); SENTENCING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WATER SPORTS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ENSIGN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



636 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ASSANGE MUST BE EXTRADITED,
British Court Rules
A British court ordered that Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, must be extradited to Sweden to face accusations of sexual abuse. He is accused under Sweden's sexual-crimes laws of two counts of sexual molestation, one count of unlawful coercion and one count of rape. Mr. Assange immediately said he would appeal the decision. Page A4
POLICING SUDAN'S POLICE 
As many as 100 Sudanese police recruits may have died from severe punishment and harsh conditions during training, recruits and international observers say, prompting a United Nations investigation and a diplomatic scramble from donor countries. The United States donated money to help southern Sudan develop a police force before the region's declaration of independence from northern Sudan. Page A4
National
STATES USE PRISON LABOR
To Overcome Federal Cuts
Prison labor is nothing new, but these days, officials are expanding the practice to combat cuts in federal financing and dwindling tax revenue. States are using prisoners to paint vehicles, clean courthouses, sweep campsites and perform many other services done by private contractors or government employees before the recession. Page A14
NEW TRANSPLANT POLICY
A new policy considered by the nation's organ transplant network would replace the current first-come-first-served kidney transplant system so that the best kidneys would be given to patients with the longest life expectancies. Page A16
New York
SENDING A MESSAGE,
One Pack at a Time
For Audrey Silk, the founder of New York City Clash (Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker Harrassment), the process of making cigarettes at home is not just about the money, it is also about the message. Ms. Silk refuses to buy cigarettes in New York, the state with the highest cigarette taxes in the country, growing and smoking her own tax-free cigarettes from $2.50 packets of seeds she buys online. Page A20
Business
G.M. POSTS A YEARLY PROFIT
For First Time Since 2004
General Motors said that it earned $4.7 billion in 2010, the most in more than a decade. It was the first profitable year since 2004 for G.M., a result of eliminating debt during and after bankruptcy and years of work reducing factory output, cutting labor costs and developing more enticing cars and trucks. Page B1 PORSCHE UNDER SCRUTINY
German prosecutors are investigating several former Porsche executives for possible market manipulation, breach of trust and credit fraud, threatening the luxury carmaker's potential merger with Volkswagen. Page B4
URGING GENDER EQUALITY
A report commissioned by the British government recommended that by 2015, women should make up at least 25 percent of the boards at the country's largest British companies. Though the report does not suggest that Britain follow other European countries in introducing compulsory quotas, it does seek to increase the pressure on British companies to improve gender equality. Page B6
Sports
WITH ONE WEEK TO GO,
N.F.L. Sides Remain Apart
With one week to go before the National Football League's collective bargaining agreement expires, the federal mediator involved in negotiations between team owners and the players' union said that ''strong differences'' still exist between the two parties. Page B12
Weekend
LIFE'S GRIM CIRCUMSTANCES
Provide Film's Setting
The grim circumstances of life during the 1990s in Algeria, a country then foundering in a state of terror, provide the setting for ''Of Gods and Men,'' a beautiful, somber and rigorously intelligent new film by the French director Xavier Beauvois, writes A. O. Scott. Page C1
NOT JUST ABOUT FOOD
Though Gabrielle Hamilton's brilliantly written new memoir, ''Blood, Bones & Butter,'' is rhapsodic about food -- in every variety -- the book is hardly for foodies. Ms. Hamilton proves to be as evocative in writing about people and places as she is in writing about cooking, writes Michiko Kakutani. Page C19
Obituaries
EDWIN D. KILBOURNE, 90
A medical researcher who figured out how to outwit fast-evolving flu germs, developing a new vaccine each year by intermingling genes of different disease strains, Dr. Kilbourne earned global note for his work on the flu as early as the mid-1950s. Page B10
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (93%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); WOMEN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SMOKING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); LOBBYING (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); PRISONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); MERGERS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); GENDER EQUALITY (63%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



637 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: The Rebellion in Libya: A View From Italy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Qaddafi Orders Brutal Crackdown as Revolt Grows'' (front page, Feb. 23): 
The strong repression in Libya confirms the big mistake of Western countries (Italy in particular): friendship with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi is impossible. Now, the United States and Europe have to call on Colonel Qaddafi to resign; if he doesn't, they need to use any strategy (including economic sanctions and military action) against this cruel and dictatorial regime.
The revolution in Libya is a big opportunity for all Western governments, an opportunity of democracy; the United States and Europe have to help this revolution.
Tommaso De Benedetti Rome, Feb. 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 LIBYAN UPRISING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); ITALY (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



638 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Pockets of Abundance in 'Distressed Areas'

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Walk down Post Street near Union Square in San Francisco -- past the famed Gumps department store, the Prada boutique, De Beers and Saks Fifth Avenue -- and you will probably think the area is economically vibrant. 
But the businesses on Post Street -- along with the trendy shops that line College Avenue in Oakland, the big box stores of Emeryville, and Chevron's oil refinery in Richmond -- all qualify for a $37,000 tax credit for many new hires, as well as other tax breaks, because they are in a state-designated ''economically distressed area.''
The enterprise zone program, which was created in 1984, has come under fire from Gov. Jerry Brown, who wants to eliminate it as part of a plan to help fix California's $25 billion budget deficit.
The state Department of Finance estimates that eliminating the state's 52 economic development areas could generate $343 million in new tax revenue this fiscal year and $581 million next year. The non-partisan Legislative Analyst's Office supports eliminating or restructuring enterprise zones.
Many local officials, however, insist that the zones are an important economic development tool. At a Feb. 17 news conference, Mayor Jean Quan of Oakland featured an office supply company and a metal fabrication firm that benefit from the tax incentives. Keeping the tax breaks intact ''won't change the recession, but it might save some jobs,'' Ms. Quan said.
At the news conference, Susana Villarreal, the city's enterprise zone coordinator, said Oakland is seeking to expand its enterprise zone to include the wealthy Piedmont Avenue and Montclair Districts.
Critics say such an expansion reveals how far the enterprise zone program has strayed from its original mission. The hiring tax credit applies to workers who live in so-called targeted employment areas that largely overlap the enterprise zones.
''If you were in a downtown office building and hired a lawyer in Rockridge you could get the tax benefits,'' said Lenny Goldberg, executive director of the California Tax Reform Association. ''It's a complete giveaway.''
Mr. Goldberg said this was especially true of San Francisco, which has the most generous enterprise zone in the state. It covers virtually the entire eastern side of the city, pulling in poor neighborhoods like Bayview, and also the Financial District, Fisherman's Wharf, Union Square, South of Market, Chinatown, the Mission, and parts of Potrero Hill and the Western Addition.
In 2008, the last year for which statewide data is available, California's Franchise Tax Board reported that San Francisco companies took nearly $100 million in enterprise zone benefits, accounting for about one-sixth of all such tax breaks statewide.
Since then, the number of San Francisco companies taking advantage of the tax credits increased to 983 in 2010, from 439 in 2008, according to the city's Office of Economic and Workforce Development.
But the city's chief economist, Ted Egan, does not see much impact if the credits are eliminated.
''I don't think most of the employment swings pro and con have much to do with the enterprise zone,'' Mr. Egan said. ''There are others factors in play.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Businesses on thriving sections of Post Street at Union Square qualify for tax breaks under the state's enterprise program, which Gov. Jerry Brown has criticized. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); BUDGETS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (51%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



639 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Wanders as Oil Prices Ease

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The volatility of crude oil prices still dominated investors' concerns on Thursday as they assessed how the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa could affect the global economic recovery.
Weeks of protests have already unseated governments in Tunisia and Egypt. In Libya, antigovernment fighting has magnified a potential shortfall of the oil supply for global markets while sending prices higher.
''The markets have been reflecting the increased uncertainty in the Middle East, and we will probably see that volatility for a while,'' Brian M. Youngberg, an energy analyst for Edward Jones, said. 
After jumping above $100 a barrel early Thursday, spot oil prices settled down 82 cents at $97.28 in New York trading. In London, the April Brent crude futures contract gained 24 cents a barrel to $111.49 after hitting $119.79, the highest since mid-2008.
Shares on Wall Street were mixed as reports trickled out from Libya that supporters of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi were fighting rebels closing in on the capital, Tripoli.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which was down almost 300 points in the two previous days of trading, lost 37.28 points, or 0.31 percent, at 12,068.50. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.30 points, or 0.10 percent, at 1,306.10 and the Nasdaq gained 14.91 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,737.90.
In London, the FTSE 100 dropped 3.55 points, while the CAC-40 in Paris declined 3.48 points. The DAX shed 0.89 percent, or 64.10 points, in Frankfurt. Most Asian markets closed lower on Thursday.
This week, companies halted oil and gas production in Libya, and economists said investors and businesses in the non-oil sector elsewhere, like retailers and manufacturers, were trying to assess how the unrest would affect future costs and operations.
The chief financial officer of Procter & Gamble, J. R. Moeller, said Thursday that the company, which has factories in Egypt, expected to raise prices this year to absorb higher commodity costs. Procter & Gamble fell 1.7 percent to $63.05.
Retailers were concerned about how much consumers would be able to spend on clothing or discretionary goods, for example, if food and gas prices soared. Hospitality companies feared higher prices at the pump would damp travel.
''Everybody is trying to juggle all these variables,'' Bernard Baumohl, the chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group, said in a phone interview.
On Wall Street, energy stocks led the declining sectors on the broader market. Companies with operations in international oilfield services fell. Schlumberger closed at $89.65 and Halliburton was down to $45.55. Each declined more than 3 percent.
Refiners also absorbed some of the volatility as crude prices rose. Tesoro was down 5.35 percent at $23.01, and Valero Energy fell 3.42 percent, to $26.80.
Mr. Youngberg said there was some profit-taking in the energy sector and concerns over whether the higher energy costs would hurt consumer demand, especially if gasoline prices kept rising toward $4 a gallon.
General Motors, which reported $4.7 billion in earnings in 2010 declined nearly 5 percent to $33.02.
Consumers in the United States will probably feel the price increase at the pump more quickly and directly than their European counterparts, where a much higher portion of that price is in taxes -- about 80 percent in some countries.
Various economic data released in the United States on Thursday did not sway investors.
The weekly unemployment data, showed that the number of laid-off workers applying for unemployment benefits dropped by 22,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 391,000.
That figure was encouraging, Mr. Baumohl said in a research note. ''But we have to wonder whether it will be sustained if employers begin to question the future strength of the recovery.''
The latest housing data, however, was weaker than expected. New single family home sales fell 12.6 percent in January, the Commerce Department said, to a 284,000 unit seasonally adjusted annual rate.
Jason D. Pride, the director of investment strategy at Glenmede, said the data might have been better received had it not been for the drag on sentiment from concerns over the Middle East.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 10/32, to 101 15/32. The yield fell 3.45 percent, from 3.48 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); FUTURES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); RETAILERS (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (50%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); VLO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TUNISIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



640 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: After Expose, Filmmaker Sees Little Change on Wall Street

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and MAC WILLIAM BISHOP

 BODY:
Will Wall Street win over Hollywood?
''Inside Job,'' the Oscar-nominated documentary directed by Charles Ferguson, takes a piercing look at the financial crisis. Told through the lens of economists like Nouriel Roubini and investors like George Soros, the film lays much of the blame on Wall Street and a revolving door of regulators, many of whom came straight from the big banks.
With the Academy Awards to be presented on Sunday, Andrew Ross Sorkin of DealBook caught up with Mr. Ferguson to discuss what Wall Street thought of his work, regulatory reform and the filmmaking process. What follows is an edited version of the discussion. 
Q.What type of reaction have you gotten from Wall Street?
A.Most of the people with whom I've spoken on Wall Street have reacted positively to the film.
Q.Despite the dim view that it often takes of Wall Street?
A.Yes, I would say actually because of the dim view that it takes of Wall Street. Of course, I am sure there are people who are very displeased by the film. But they haven't spoken with me, I guess.
Q.Have you had any encounters with people who were in the film?
A.I had a rather interesting encounter with William Dudley, who is now the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The research department of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York actually requested a screening of the film, and a meeting with me. He attended.
Q.What did he say?
A.Well, he said that he was broadly happy with and in agreement with the film, which surprised me a little bit. But he was in front of a bunch of his employees. That may have had an effect on the way he conducted himself. I don't know.
Q.One of the criticisms you hear about the film is that it focuses somewhat conspiratorially on Wall Street but doesn't lay any blame on individuals like homeowners. How do you respond to that?
A.It's there in the film, briefly. Perhaps it deserved another five minutes in the film, I don't know. That's a kind of subjective thing. I guess my own view was that it wasn't the core of what occurred, and therefore wasn't the focus of the film.
Q.Many of those who are on the police force today arguably were at the scene of the crime at the time - whether it be the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner; the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke; or others. When you look at the environment today, after the passage of regulatory reform, do you feel any better?
A.Not much. I think it is a very disturbing situation, and that says something very disturbing about the condition of American politics. There has been very little change. Many people when they voted for Barack Obama and Congress thought that this problem would be dealt with.
But it hasn't been, and in fact, the people running economic and regulatory policy in the Obama administration are in many cases people who contributed to causing the crisis. In some cases, there's fairly clear evidence that they conducted themselves in very, very unethical ways.
Q.What is the single issue that you worry about most today?
A.Well, I think that I would name two. One of them is that in another 10 years this could happen again. The other - which is related but in some ways even more disturbing - is that there has been no justice.
Q.What do you think now of Wall Street's compensation practices, an issue that seemed to pervade much of the film?
A.I don't have a problem with people getting wealthy if they work hard, contribute to society and do valuable things. There are people in Silicon Valley who are enormously wealthy. But for the most part they are enormously wealthy because they did something useful and valuable.
The problem here is that in finance people can get enormously wealthy by causing enormous damage to many other people. And that hasn't been stopped. That's part of why I am concerned that this could happen again in another decade.
Q.One of the most striking moments in the film involved Glenn Hubbard, formerly the chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush and now the dean of Columbia Business School. In the scene, you ask Mr. Hubbard rather pointedly about his consulting relationships with financial firms.
Since the movie has come out there has been a lot of discussion about such relationships and about creating a new code of ethics for academics and economists. Has progress been made?
A.There has been a lot of conversation about it, and there is some progress in that regard. And that does make me happy that there has been that progress. The progress so far is very limited and very incomplete, but at least things are going in the correct direction.
Q.With contentious interviews like the one involving Mr. Hubbard, do subjects ever get the feeling there's been a bait and switch?
A.There was no bait and switch. Essentially, everyone interviewed for the film was given the same information. We told them who we were. A few people asked for my C.V., or information about me, which we supplied. We said that we were making a documentary. We described the subject of the documentary.
Some people had further detailed questions. Most didn't. Glenn Hubbard did not. We asked him to be interviewed. He agreed to be interviewed.
Q.Any reaction afterward?
A.Obviously, some of those people were extremely unhappy. But, you know, too bad.
''Inside Job'' will be released on DVD on March 8.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Ferguson, director of the documentary film ''Inside Job,'' which has been nominated for an Academy Award. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); GEORGE SOROS (57%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



641 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COLUMBUS JOURNAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: In a Center of Unionism, Bill to Curb Bargaining Sharpens Positions

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- When protesters descended this week to oppose a bill that would weaken collective bargaining for public workers, Elaine, a cashier at a Dollar Store in a crazy quilt of strip malls in southern Columbus, had little sympathy.
''Adults acting like children down at the Statehouse,'' she said, ringing up a customer's paper plates. ''The unions are getting a little bit out of control.'' 
For a city so important in the formation of the modern American labor movement, Columbus, Ohio's capital, seems remarkably free of affection for unions.
In interviews on Wednesday, some people, like Elaine, a woman in her 50s who did not give her last name because it was against her store's policy to speak to reporters, were openly against them. But most people had mixed views, expressing sympathy for the deteriorating condition of the middle class, but also frustration that a union member could get a better deal.
So it goes in America's often conflicted relationship with its working class, a tangled history whose next chapter is unfolding, among other places, here in Columbus, where the forerunner to the modern labor movement, the American Federation of Labor, began in 1886 and the United Mine Workers four years later.
''Labor is part of Ohio's DNA,'' said Harley Shaiken, a social and cultural studies professor at University of California, Berkeley.
But to gain their rights, workers had some of the toughest fights anywhere, said John Russo of Youngstown State University. That opposition to labor, still around today, often came from the more conservative, southwestern parts of the state. Testimony in favor of the bill, he pointed out, came largely from that region.
''Ohio has always been filled with dichotomy when it comes to labor unions,'' he said.
Fights with unions are erupting at a time when their public approval ratings are at nearly their lowest in a quarter-century, according to a Pew Research Center survey of 1,385 adults in early February. That finding was in the air in Hal Kuhn's tobacco shop on Wednesday. ''There's a lot of complaining,'' said Mr. Kuhn, 38, who said he lives paycheck to paycheck managing the shop six days a week. ''It's, 'Oh, I didn't get my break, and I didn't get yesterday off.' ''
But if the view of unions has deteriorated, support for allowing them to bargain collectively has not. A USA Today/Gallup poll found that 61 percent of the 1,000 adults they surveyed on Monday opposed laws taking away the bargaining power of public-employee unions. ''You should at least get something after giving your whole life to someone,'' said Martha Rollins, 53, a retired warehouse worker who was shopping in the Dollar Store.
But Ms. Rollins was in the minority, possibly because her husband, a retired mechanic who worked for the city, benefited from union protection. Ohio has about five million workers, and about half a million are local and state employees.
More typical was Brett Stephens, 23, who had worked in more jobs since he was 15 than Ms. Rollins has in her lifetime. He had jobs at a snack shop, as a lifeguard, at Little Caesars restaurants in South Carolina and Florida, at a Limited clothing store, with a temp agency, and most recently as a cook in a diner.
He did not go to college, he said, because his grandmother, who raised him after his mother died when he was 9, could not afford to send him. Now he scrapes by on $10 an hour, unable to afford health care for his two children. It is covered by welfare.
''I think they should stop crying,'' he said of the protesting union members. Everyone was working hard and tightening their belts, he said, so why should unions be different?
The heart of the problem, said Vaughn Carner, a retired risk management specialist who was drinking coffee in a diner on High Street on Wednesday night, is the rapid change that has left Americans confused, disoriented and struggling to adapt.
In Ohio, economic decline has redrawn the map, devastating towns and cities, and making some places unrecognizable. Mr. Carner, now 70, recalled making a wrong turn at night in Toledo a number of years ago, not realizing where he was because population decline had left entire blocks abandoned and dark.
''We're just a little bit afraid, like an old man who is trying to make his way, but is lost,'' he said. ''We used to be the big boys on the block, but the rest of the world is catching up with us in so many ways.''
Richard Freeman, an economist at Harvard, said he saw the hostility toward unions as a sign of decay in society. Some working-class people see so few possibilities for their lives that it is eroding the aspirational nature that has long been typical of Americans.
''It shows a hopelessness,'' he said. ''It used to be, 'You have something I don't have; I'll go to my employer to get it, too. Now I don't see any chance of getting it. I don't want to be the lowest one on the totem pole, so I don't want you to have it either.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vaughn Carner, 70, a retired risk management specialist, says rapid change has left Americans confused and struggling to adapt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); QUILTS & QUILTING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); TOBACCO STORES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONSERVATISM (65%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



642 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: The Food Crisis

 BODY:
Food prices are soaring to record levels, threatening many developing countries with mass hunger and political instability. Finance ministers of the Group of 20 leading economies discussed the problem at a meeting in Paris last week, but for all of their expressed concern, most are already breaking their promises to help. 
After the last sharp price spike in 2008, the G-20 promised to invest $22 billion over three years to help vulnerable countries boost food production. To date, the World Bank fund that is supposed to administer this money has received less than $400 million.
Food prices are now higher than their 2008 peak, driven by rising demand in developing countries and volatile weather, including drought in Russia and Ukraine and a dry spell in North China that threatens the crop of the world's largest wheat producer. The World Bank says the spike has pushed 44 million people into extreme poverty just since June.
In 2008, 30 countries had food riots. That has not happened, at least not yet. Sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, has benefited from improved agricultural productivity. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization warns that Mozambique, Uganda, Mali, Niger and Somalia are extremely vulnerable to instability because of rising prices, along with Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in Asia, and Haiti, Guatemala, Bolivia and Honduras in Latin America.
Misguided government policies could make matters worse. Some countries are stockpiling food. When India did that last year, food ended up rotting in storages. Others are imposing agricultural export bans, which discourages investment in production. The world's wealthier nations must press them to rethink these polices and back that up with real help.
The Obama administration has proposed worthy initiatives, but even when Democrats controlled Congress it had a hard time getting the money. The administration has committed $570 million toward its pledge of $3.5 billion between 2010 and 2012. A World Bank fund that got $66 million from the United States will only administer part of the global aid effort.
It is now asking for $408 million for the fund -- part of a $1.64 billion request for its Feed the Future initiative, which aims to bolster poor countries' food production capabilities. Congressional Republicans are determined to hack as much as they can out of foreign aid. The continuing resolution passed by the House cuts $800 million out of the food aid budget -- bringing it down to about $1 billion, roughly where it was in 2001.
The White House needs to push back hard. This isn't a question of charity. It is an issue of life or death for millions of people. And the hard truth is that if the United States doesn't keep its word, no one else will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (79%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); WHEAT FARMING (69%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); RIOTS (53%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); CHINA (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); MALI (79%); AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); NIGER (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



643 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2888 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By NICOLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
American Museum of Natural History (Wednesday and Thursday) SciCafe presents ''Know Your Roots: The Cultural Origins of Medicinal Plants,'' a lecture by Dr. Ina Vandebroek, on Wednesday at 7 p.m.; free, with a cash bar. ''The Aging Brain: An Owners Manual'' is the first of three interactive courses exploring cognitive function in the adult brain, on Thursday at 6:30 p.m.; $100 for the series, $90 for members. This event is in conjunction with ''Brain: The Inside Story,'' an interactive exhibition that blends technology, history and neuroscience, on view through Aug. 15. Central Park West and 79th Street , (212) 769-5100, amnh.org; general admission: $16; $12 for 65+; $9 for under 12; members free.20110224 
Brooklyn Historical Society (Saturday and Sunday) On Saturday at 2 p.m., a jazz concert by Eric Frazier. Through April 24, ''Home Base: Memories of the Brooklyn Dodgers at Ebbets Field,'' the story of the baseball team, the legendary stadium and the Brooklynites who loved them, told with photographs, oral histories and other archival material. On Sunday at 2 p.m., a related event, the film ''The Life of Jackie Robinson.'' Exhibition hours: Wednesday through Friday and Sunday from noon to 5 p.m., Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Brooklyn Historical Society, 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights , (718) 422-4111, brooklynhistory.org; admission: $6, $4 for students, teachers and 62+, free for those under 12 and members; both Mr. Frazier's concert and film screening, $15, $12 for members.20110224
Historic Richmond Town (Saturday) A book signing and photographic retrospective of ''West Brighton'' (Arcadia) by Cecelia N. Brunner and Jim Harkins, at 2 p.m. in the Third County Courthouse; free. This Old House, a jazz trio, will perform as part of the Tavern Concerts series at 7:30 and 9 p.m.; reservations necessary: (718) 351-1611, Ext. 281, 441 Clarke Avenue, Staten Island , historicrichmondtown.org; $5, $4 for 65+, $3.50 for children 5 to 17, free for children under 5 and members. Tavern concert, $15, $12 for members.20110224
Louis Armstrong House Museum (Saturday) ''Louis Armstrong and Race'' -- the second of two weekends of discussions with Ricky Riccardi, a jazz historian and author, about Armstrong's civil rights activities -- features rare tape recordings and film footage; at 1 and 3 p.m. Reservations are required: (718) 478-8274. 34-56 107th Street, Corona, Queens , louisarmstronghouse.org; $8, $6 for students, children and 65+, free for children under 4 and members.20110224
El Museo del Barrio (Wednesday) ''The House on Mango Street,'' a discussion in Spanish of the novel by Sandra Cisneros, on Wednesday at 11 a.m.; free; reservations: zclimente@elmuseo.org Wepa Wednesdays (through May) this week features D.J. eMMa sound Sista at 6 p.m., and at 6:30 p.m., a screening of ''Dirt,'' followed by a discussion with the director Nancy Savoca; free. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org; suggested donation $9; $5 for students and 65+; under 12, free; free admission every third Saturday of each month and for 65+ on Wednesdays.20110224
Museum of the City of New York (Friday, Saturday and Monday) ''Polygraph Lounge'' features Mark Stewart and Rob Schwimmer, a multi-instrumentalist song and comedy team, on Friday at noon; free with museum admission. ''Meet Andrea Davis Pinkney'': This Brooklyn-based author shares an interactive multimedia presentation based on her work on Saturday at 2 p.m.; free with museum admission. ''The Apollo Legacy: Jazz!,'' a musical tribute featuring the National Jazz Museum All Stars, will be hosted by Loren Schoenberg, director of the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, on Monday at 7 p.m.; $5; reservations: (212) 534-1672. Presented in collaboration with the Apollo Theater and in conjunction with the exhibition ''Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing: How the Apollo Theater Shaped American Entertainment,'' at the museum through May 1. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; museum admission: $10; $6 for students and 65+, free for under 12 and members.20110224
Museum of Jewish Heritage (through Sunday) Last chance for a pickup game of mah-jongg with fellow enthusiasts at the exhibition ''Project Mah-Jongg,'' with scorecards, tiles, aprons and related items, on view through Feb. 27. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan , (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $12, $10 for 65+; $7 for students; free for members and those 12 and younger.20110224
Staten Island Museum (Friday, Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) ''Portraits of Leadership: African American Entrepreneurs of Staten Island'' tells the stories of eight Staten Islanders in the arts, law and business and other professions, using photographs and a DVD, through Nov. 1; 1 to 4 p.m., 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island , (718) 727-1135, statenislandmuseum.org; $3; students $2; free for children under 12 and members.20110224
Watson Adventures Scavenger Hunts (Saturday and Sunday) ''The Secrets of Grand Central Scavenger Hunt,'' Saturday at 2 p.m.; $24.50. ''The Cloisters Capers Scavenger Hunt,'' Sunday at 1 p.m.; $36, or $28 for college students. Both are for adults only. Reservations and meeting place: (866) 811-4111. watsonadventures.com.20110224
Gardens
Queens Botanical Garden (Sunday) ''Extra! Interactive Arts Workshop: Mix It Up With Puppet State Theater'' begins at 1 p.m.; $6; $3 under 12. Members can attend the workshop free with tickets to the 2:15 p.m. puppet show ''The Man Who Planted Trees at Flushing Town Hall,'' an adaptation of Jean Giono's short story that shows the impact one man (and his dog) can make on their environment; for ages 8 and older. 43-50 Main Street, Flushing, Queens , (718) 886-3800, queensbotanical.org; $12, $8 for 12 and younger; $10 and $6 for Queens Botanical Garden members.20110224
Wave Hill (Saturday and Sunday) The family art project ''Paper That Will Grow/Papel Que Crece'' starts at 10 a.m. in the Ecology Building and is free with admission both days. On Saturday only, Laurel Rimmer, assistant director of public programs, leads a terrarium workshop at 2 p.m.; $50; $40 for members; reservations are requested. That afternoon from 1 to 4, visitors can discuss Max Liboiron's interactive work with Ms. Liboiron herselfin Glyndor Gallery's ''Winter Workspace-Open Studio''; free with museum admission. Sunday begins with ''Nature in the Garden -- Discovery Walk'' at 9:30 a.m., meeting at the Perkins Center; $5; registration recommended. Garden hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx , (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org; $8; $4 students and 65+; $2 for 6 years and up.20110224
Events
Batsu! (Monday) This Japanese comedy game show, hosted by Kenji America, features members of the comedy troupe Face Off Unlimited competing in stunts and games, suffering punishments when they fail. Audience members (who sign a waiver) can participate in some challenges to win prizes; at 8 p.m., JeBon, 15 St. Marks Place, East Village , (212) 388-1313, faceoffunlimited.com/live-shows; $10.20110224
Black-Tie Oscar Party (Sunday) The American Cancer Society, Ajna and Royale Marketing present a black-tie Oscar party, featuring a live stream from the Kodak Theater in Los Angeles, a three-course dinner, an open bar and auctions to benefit the American Cancer Society; at 6:30 p.m. with a postparty D.J. until 2:30 a.m. Ajna, 25 Little West 12th Street, West Village , ajnabarnyc.com; $85; reservations: (212) 647-7314 or info@royale-marketing.com.20110224
Brooklyn Public Library, Dweck Center (Sunday and Tuesday) ''DuBois's Vision and Pan-Africanism Today,'' a panel discussion on W. E. B. DuBois led by Souleymane Bachir Diagne, French professor and director of graduate Studies at Columbia University, with Horace G. Campbell, professor of African-American studies and political science at Syracuse University, and Carina Ray, visiting fellow at Fordham University; at 1:30 p.m. For ''Classical Interludes: Music off the Shelves With Matthea Harvey,'' a trio of players from the Brooklyn Philharmonic will play works from Debussy, Ibert, Takemitsu and more as a dialogue with readings by Ms. Harvey, a poet; at 4 p.m. On Tuesday, a screening of ''Free at Last,'' the final installment of the seven-part series ''Have You Heard From Johannesburg?''; at 6:30 p.m. Grand Army Plaza at Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway , (718) 230-2100, brooklynpubliclibrary.org; free; 6 years and under not admitted to ''Classical Interludes.''20110224
Brooklyn Wort Home-Brewers Competition (Saturday) Thirty home-brewers bring five gallons of their finest before a panel of judges from Brooklyn establishments to compete for $800 and the $200 people's choice award. Guests receive a three-ounce pour of each brew and a plate of food. Presented by Brooklyn Home Brew and Sycamore Bar. Seatings are at 2:30 and 4:30 p.m., Gowanus Studio Space, 166 Seventh Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn , (718) 369-0776, brooklynwort.com; sold out.20110224
Comedy Below Canal (Thursday) An evening of comedy and laughs with Katina Corrao, Costaki Economopoulos, Wyatt Cenac and Dean Obeidallah and, as musical guest, Mark Douglas; at 9 p.m., 92YTriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $12.20110224
'A Great Day in Harlem' (Friday) A screening of Jean Bach's documentary ''A Great Day in Harlem,'' about the lives of the 57 jazz musicians in Art Kane's famous 1958 photograph taken on a street in Harlem; presented by the New-York Historical Society; at 3 p.m., Ottendorfer Library, 135 Second Avenue, East Village , (212) 674-0947, nypl.org; free.20110224
'happythankyoumoreplease' With Josh Radnor (Tuesday) Mr. Radnor (''How I Met Your Mother'' will be on hand for a discussion after a screening of ''happythankyoumoreplease,'' a film he directed, wrote and stars in, about 20-something New Yorkers; at 7 p.m., 92YTriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $12.20110224
Harlem Stage on Screen: Digital Diaspora Family Reunion (Sunday) Thomas Allen Harris, a documentary filmmaker, presents this participatory multimedia initiative celebrating local history, with local photos, mementos and family stories; at 3 p.m., Harlem Stage Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , (212) 281-9240, harlemstage.org; $10; $5 for those under 18.20110224
The Iranian Theater Festival (Thursday) The Brick Theater presents a festival of Persian and Persian-American theater. Opening night begins at 8 p.m. with ''Cover Girl,'' a one-woman show about wearing a chador, written and performed by Safa Samiezade'-Yazd. It will be followed by ''Pen Pals Meet: A Conversation Between Eliza and Salar,'' the meeting of longtime pen pals Eliza Bent of American Theater magazine and Salar Sardary, an Iranian university student. Ms. Bent will be at the Brick, Mr. Sardary in Iran; they will converse via Skype. Both events are free. Other shows, through March 26, are $15. For a complete schedule, go to bricktheater.com. The Brick, 575 Metropolitan Avenue, at Lorimer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn , (212) 352-3101.20110224
The Nib and Pick Society Presents FISTICUFFS! (Wednesday) The cartoonists Rina Piccolo of Six Chix and Tina's Groove; Dan Piraro of Bizarro; Farley Katz of The New Yorker; and Drew Dernavich of The New Yorker and The Rejection Collection battle live for the last laugh; hosted by the comedian Doogie Horner. At 7 p.m., 92YTriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $15.20110224
'Nine Lives' (Sunday) A peek at the work-in-progress musical adaptation of Dan Baum's book ''Nine Lives: Death and Life in New Orleans'' (Spiegel & Grau). The musical offering, subtitled ''Mystery, Magic, Death and Life in New Orleans,'' features lyrics by Paul Sanchez and book by Colman deKay, with performances by Arsene DeLay and Michael Cerveris; followed by a discussion with Mr. Baum; at 6 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street , (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25; $21 members; $15 for those 30 and younger.20110224
Slideluck (Saturday) Having toured 40 cities, Slideluck Potshow comes to Bushwick with a chili cook-off (at 7:30 p.m.) and slideshow featuring the work of Brenda Kenneally, Brock Enright, Rafael Fuchs, Rene Clement, Sarah Small and Nat Ward (at 9 p.m.). Reservations: 3rdward.com/RSVP. 3rd Ward, 195 Morgan Avenue, Bushwick, Brooklyn , (718) 715-4961, 3rdward.com; $10.20110224
'Straight to Hell Returns' (Thursday) A screening of this film, an update of the 1986 cult classic ''Straight to Hell,'' with a new soundtrack and previously cut scenes, will be followed by a talk with the director Alex Cox and the guest Jim Jarmusch; at 7:30 p.m., 92YTriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $12.20110224
Traditional Music and Folklore From China (Saturday) An introduction to Chinese folk and classical music, as well as the lore and mythology of instruments like the guzheng and 21-string zither. Presented by Chinese Theater Works. For all ages, at 2 p.m., Bronx Library Center, 310 East Kingsbridge Road, the Bronx , (718) 579-4200, chinesetheatreworks.org, nypl.org; free.20110224
Spoken Word
Festival of New French Writing: French and American Authors in Conversation (Friday and Saturday) Appearing on Friday will be Pascal Bruckner, Mark Lilla and Adam Gopnik (at 2:30 p.m.) and David B. (David Beauchard), Ben Katchor and Francoise Mouly (at 4 p.m.); and Atiq Rahimi, Russell Banks and Lila Azam Zanganeh (at 7:30 p.m.). Saturday presentations: Laurence Crosse, Arthur Phillips and Judith D. Miller (at 2:30 p.m.) and Philippe Claudel, A. M. Homes and John R. MacArthur (at 4 p.m.). The conversations will have simultaneous translations. The festival is co-sponsored by the Institut Francais (formerly CulturesFrance) and the Cultural Services of the French Embassy. New York University, Hemmerdinger Hall, 100 Washington Square East, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-8750, frenchwritingfestival.com; free.20110224
92nd Street Y Discussions (Monday and Wednesday) On Monday at 8:15 p.m., ''Literature and Revolution in the Middle East'' with Reza Aslan, Azar Nafisi and Nathan Englander. On Wednesday at 8 p.m., ''The Way Forward'' with Arianna Huffington and Joseph E. Stiglitz. 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5440, 92y.org; both events $29.20110224
'La Peste' (Thursday) Francis Huster, an actor formerly with Comedie-Francaise, performs his adaptation of Albert Camus's ''Peste'' in French without subtitles; presented by French Institute Alliance Francaise. At 8 p.m., Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan , (800) 982-2787, fiaf.org; $50; $40 for members.20110224
Varsity Letters at Le Poisson Rouge (Thursday) John Eisenberg, Doug Merlino and Jon Wertheim are part of this month's Gelf Magazine's Varsity Letters, a sports reading series (monthly through May 5) hosted by Carl Bialik and Dan Shanoff. At 7 p.m., Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com; free.20110224
Verse Visits: World Poets in New York (Thursday) The first of a series of readings hosted by Molly Peacock, poet in residence emeritus of the American Poet's Corner at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Devine, will feature Lorna Crozier and eight other poets from the pages of ''The Best Canadian Poetry 2010''; at 1 p.m.; St. Paul's Chapel of Trinity Wall Street, 209 Broadway, at Fulton Street; (212) 233-4164. The second reading takes place at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine at 7 p.m., 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights , (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org; free.20110224
Walking Tours
Big Onion Walking Tours (Monday) ''Historic Harlem -- Celebrating Black History Month,'' focusing on people and sites associated with the neighborhood, will meet on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Lenox Avenue; at 1 p.m., (888) 606-9255, bigonion.com; $15; $12 for 63+ and students.20110224
'Foods, Feuds, Bad Guys and Saints' (Friday and Saturday) This tour led by Joseph Mauriello, of WineDineNY, covers the Italian roots of Greenwich Village, with visits to historic sites, houses of worship and food shops, including a stop for a complimentary cappuccino; at 10 a.m. Reservations and meeting place: (917) 647-4029. winedineny.com; $32.20110224
Graffiti Tours New York (Sunday) ''The Burners of SoHo'' passes the large-scale canvases of graffiti artists who consider SoHo their studio; meets in front of Think Coffee, on the northwest corner of Bleecker Street and the Bowery. At 2 p.m., (201) 788-7196, grafftours.com; $20, $10 for students.20110224
Recreation
New York Road Runners Al Gordon Classic (Saturday) A four-mile run in memory of the former New York Road Runners board member Al Gordon, who lived to be 107. Meet inside Prospect Park at Center Drive, midpark. Register on Friday between 1 and 7 p.m. at 9 East 89th Street and on Saturday between 6:30 and 7:30 a.m. at P.S. 154 (at Windsor Place and 11th Avenue). Park Slope, Brooklyn , (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org; $37; $23 for members; $15 for 65+ and under 18 through Friday; $40, $25 and $20 on Saturday.20110224
NICOLE HIGGINS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); BRAIN (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); WRITERS (75%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); BASEBALL (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



644 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Shock Doctrine, U.S.A.

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Here's a thought: maybe Madison, Wis., isn't Cairo after all. Maybe it's Baghdad -- specifically, Baghdad in 2003, when the Bush administration put Iraq under the rule of officials chosen for loyalty and political reliability rather than experience and competence.
As many readers may recall, the results were spectacular -- in a bad way. Instead of focusing on the urgent problems of a shattered economy and society, which would soon descend into a murderous civil war, those Bush appointees were obsessed with imposing a conservative ideological vision. Indeed, with looters still prowling the streets of Baghdad, L. Paul Bremer, the American viceroy, told a Washington Post reporter that one of his top priorities was to ''corporatize and privatize state-owned enterprises'' -- Mr. Bremer's words, not the reporter's -- and to ''wean people from the idea the state supports everything.'' 
The story of the privatization-obsessed Coalition Provisional Authority was the centerpiece of Naomi Klein's best-selling book ''The Shock Doctrine,'' which argued that it was part of a broader pattern. From Chile in the 1970s onward, she suggested, right-wing ideologues have exploited crises to push through an agenda that has nothing to do with resolving those crises, and everything to do with imposing their vision of a harsher, more unequal, less democratic society.
Which brings us to Wisconsin 2011, where the shock doctrine is on full display.
In recent weeks, Madison has been the scene of large demonstrations against the governor's budget bill, which would deny collective-bargaining rights to public-sector workers. Gov. Scott Walker claims that he needs to pass his bill to deal with the state's fiscal problems. But his attack on unions has nothing to do with the budget. In fact, those unions have already indicated their willingness to make substantial financial concessions -- an offer the governor has rejected.
What's happening in Wisconsin is, instead, a power grab -- an attempt to exploit the fiscal crisis to destroy the last major counterweight to the political power of corporations and the wealthy. And the power grab goes beyond union-busting. The bill in question is 144 pages long, and there are some extraordinary things hidden deep inside.
For example, the bill includes language that would allow officials appointed by the governor to make sweeping cuts in health coverage for low-income families without having to go through the normal legislative process.
And then there's this: ''Notwithstanding ss. 13.48 (14) (am) and 16.705 (1), the department may sell any state-owned heating, cooling, and power plant or may contract with a private entity for the operation of any such plant, with or without solicitation of bids, for any amount that the department determines to be in the best interest of the state. Notwithstanding ss. 196.49 and 196.80, no approval or certification of the public service commission is necessary for a public utility to purchase, or contract for the operation of, such a plant, and any such purchase is considered to be in the public interest and to comply with the criteria for certification of a project under s. 196.49 (3) (b).''
What's that about? The state of Wisconsin owns a number of plants supplying heating, cooling, and electricity to state-run facilities (like the University of Wisconsin). The language in the budget bill would, in effect, let the governor privatize any or all of these facilities at whim. Not only that, he could sell them, without taking bids, to anyone he chooses. And note that any such sale would, by definition, be ''considered to be in the public interest.''
If this sounds to you like a perfect setup for cronyism and profiteering -- remember those missing billions in Iraq? -- you're not alone. Indeed, there are enough suspicious minds out there that Koch Industries, owned by the billionaire brothers who are playing such a large role in Mr. Walker's anti-union push, felt compelled to issue a denial that it's interested in purchasing any of those power plants. Are you reassured?
The good news from Wisconsin is that the upsurge of public outrage -- aided by the maneuvering of Democrats in the State Senate, who absented themselves to deny Republicans a quorum -- has slowed the bum's rush. If Mr. Walker's plan was to push his bill through before anyone had a chance to realize his true goals, that plan has been foiled. And events in Wisconsin may have given pause to other Republican governors, who seem to be backing off similar moves.
But don't expect either Mr. Walker or the rest of his party to change those goals. Union-busting and privatization remain G.O.P. priorities, and the party will continue its efforts to smuggle those priorities through in the name of balanced budgets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); FAMILY (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); BESTSELLERS (52%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



645 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 4495 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'The Book of Mormon' In previews; opens on March 24. The ''South Park'' creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker team up with Robert Lopez (''Avenue Q'') to take on the Mormons. Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)20110224
'Ghetto Klown' In previews; opens on March 22. John Leguizamo returns to Broadway with a new comic solo show directed by Fisher Stevens. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110224
'Good People' In previews; opens on Thursday. Frances McDormand (''Fargo'') stars in David Lindsay-Abaire's new play about an unemployed woman and an old fling. Daniel Sullivan (''The Merchant of Venice'') directs. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110224 
'Kin' Previews start on Saturday. Opens on March 21. An Ivy league poetry scholar forms a bond with a personal trainer in this new play by Bathsheba Doran. Sam Gold (''The Aliens'') directs. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Zinoman)20110224
'The Method Gun' Performances start on Wednesday. This new show from the Austin, Tex.-based Rude Mechs follows an acting guru who teaches ''the most dangerous acting technique in the world.'' Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org. (Zinoman)20110224
'Peter and the Starcatcher' In previews; opens on March 9. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct this play about how Peter Pan became the boy who would not grow up. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Zinoman)20110224
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' In previews; opens on March 15. The amazing ineptitude of Julie Taymor's riff on the anguished comic-book hero loses its shock value early. After 15 minutes, the central question you ask yourself is likely to change from ''How can $65 million look so cheap?'' to ''How long before I'm out of here?'' (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street , (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Ben Brantley)20110224
'That Championship Season' In previews; opens on March 6. Gregory Mosher's revival of Jason Miller's scathing sports drama focuses on a reunion of a high school basketball team. Brian Cox, Jim Gaffigan, Chris Noth, Jason Patric and Kiefer Sutherland star. Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20110224
Broadway
'The Addams Family' Imagine, if you dare, the agonies of the talented people trapped inside this collapsing tomb of a musical. They include Nathan Lane, Bebe Neuwirth and Kevin Chamberlin, all shamefully squandered (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20110224
- 'American Idiot' A wonderfully raucous and gorgeously wrought rock opera adapted from the blockbuster album by Green Day. With minimal book, the director Michael Mayer and a terrific young cast explore the crisis of post-adolescence (1:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)20110224
- 'La Cage aux Folles' Terry Johnson's inspired, Tony-winning revival of this 1983 musical, about family values as seen through the prism of a transvestite revue, delivers the unexpected lesson that in theater, shabby can be not just chic but also redemptive (2:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20110224
'Driving Miss Daisy' Those theatrical giants James Earl Jones and Vanessa Redgrave memorably portray the title character and her driver in David Esbjornson's revival of Alfred Uhry's 1986 work. If they feel squeezed or confined by what is a very slender play, they never let on. With Boyd Gaines (1:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, DaisyonBroadway.com. (Brantley)20110224
- 'The Importance of Being Earnest' Brian Bedford, as the magnificent gorgon Lady Bracknell, is giving one of the great performances of the season in this effervescent revival, which he directed, of Oscar Wilde's 1895 comedy of manners (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110224
'Lombardi' Dan Lauria stars as Vince Lombardi in Eric Simonson's drama-deficient play about the venerated Green Bay Packers coach (1:35). Circle in the Square, 235 West 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'Long Story Short' The wry stand-up comic Colin Quinn brings an everyguy's perspective to this brisk tour of the follies of mankind dating back a couple of millenniums. Directed by Jerry Seinfeld, the show more or less lives up to its whimsical subtitle, ''History of the World in 75 Minutes'' (1:15). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'Million Dollar Quartet' A small-scale jukebox musical about a big day in rock 'n' roll history, when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam in the recording studio of Sun Records. The book resembles a standard-issue rock doc, but the music-making is fiery and the songs fun (1:30). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'Rain: A Tribute to the Beatles on Broadway' A tricked-up cover-band concert featuring four musical impersonators ably if impersonally working through a greatest-hits list. ''Beatlemania'' all over again (2:20). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street , (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20110224
Off Broadway
'Angels in America'Michael Greif's warm embrace of a revival of Tony Kushner's two-part theatrical epic is more accessible and less startling than the original. The production is like picking up a paperback version of a best seller you once devoured breathlessly: It's a good read, but you don't feel the same urgency (''Millennium Approaches,'' 3:00; ''Perestroika,'' 3:40). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 244-7529, SignatureTheatre.org. (Brantley)20110224
'Apple Cove' The absurdist satire of Lynn Rosen's play and the cartoonish quirks of Giovanna Sardelli's production for the Women's Project are wrought with equally heavy hands. Set in a gated community, this depiction of a post-9/11 America infantilized by fear is neither funny nor clever enough to overcome having an unconvincing central character as its primary vehicle for rebellion (1:40). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)20110224
'La Barberia' This comedy with music, set in a barbershop in Washington Heights, has broad humor and a fast pace, along with a moderate amount of substance about community and assimilation. It's a Dominican universe, but should the shop's owner sell out to the forces of gentrification? The cast, delivering the material almost entirely in Spanish (no translation is provided), shows great comic timing (1:45). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)20110224
- 'Black Tie'A. R. Gurney's new comedy, one of his brightest in years, is a modest but deftly drawn depiction of the generational shifts among the subset of humanity -- white Anglo-Saxon Protestants of deep stock -- he has been writing about for many years. Daniel Davis is a delight as a paternal ghost giving unwanted advice about his grandson's wedding (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'Compulsion'Mandy Patinkin, at gale-force intensity, portrays a man obsessed with Anne Frank in Rinne Groff's play, modeled on the life of Meyer Levin and directed by Oskar Eustis. A surprisingly straight-line and dutiful biodrama, enlivened by the inspired use of marionettes (2:20). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)20110224
'The Diary of a Madman'Geoffrey Rush gives a fearless performance in this adaptation of Gogol's celebrated tale of a clerk sinking into insanity. But while the production, directed by Neil Armfield, vigorously reminds us that a fine line divides the clown from the lunatic, it never really lets us inside its hero's scary mind (2:10). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene , (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)20110224
- 'The Divine Sister' This gleefully twisted tale of the secret lives of nuns is Charles Busch's freshest, funniest work in years. Written by and starring Mr. Busch, ''Divine,'' which features a priceless Julie Halston and Alison Fraser, is paradise for those who imagine heaven as an endless swirl of beautifully bad old movies (1:33). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village , (212) 352-3101, divinesisteronstage.com. (Brantley)20110224
The Flying Karamazov Brothers This troupe uses its cheerful new show to crack wise, sing and dance, and juggle most anything at hand (1:45). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village , (800) 745-3000, fkb.com. (Ken Jaworowski)20110224
'Freckleface Strawberry' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book ''Freckleface Strawberry,'' about a 7-year-old redhead who earns that nickname from her teasing friends, this family show transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. It does so with a winning score, talented actors and inventive comedy, as well as an acknowledgment of the unfunny aspects of its young heroine's situation. And speaking of teasing, Sanjaya Malakar, of ''American Idol'' fame, has just joined the cast (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Laurel Graeber)20110224
'Freud's Last Session' This 75-minute play imagines a meeting between Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis. The two men debate the nature of God in a story that's sharp though static (1:15). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 10 West 64th Street , (212) 352-3101, freudslastsession.com. (Jaworowski)20110224
'In the Time of the Butterflies' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Alvarez's novel about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result, is sentimental and sometimes dutiful, but Repertorio Espanol's production is good-looking, and the tragic story is well worth telling (2:00). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street , (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas. (Anita Gates)20110224
- 'Invasion!' A joke sets off a chain of events that lead to tragedy in this Kafkaesque comedy (1:25). Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa , (866) 811-4111, playco.org. (Zinoman)20110224
- 'The Man Who Ate Michael Rockefeller' Who better to tell the story of Michael Rockefeller's disappearance than the people among whom he disappeared? Inverting the classic encounter between anthropologist and primitive culture, this production, directed by Alfred Preisser, has a light, sure touch even when it treads on weighty cultural ground (1:10). ArcLight Theater, 152 West 71st Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rachel Saltz)20110224
'The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore'Olympia Dukakis gives a fearless, vanity-free performance as the dying gorgon Flora Goforth in Tennessee Williams's patchy 1963 play about the anguish and fear that can attend our going forth into the unknown (2:15). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110224
- 'Molly Sweeney' This three-actor monologue play by Brian Friel, about a blind woman who undergoes an operation to give her sight, is revived in a wonderful and heartbreaking production, one that stays in the mind long after the applause ends (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Jaworowski)20110224
'My Scandalous Life' A premiere by the Irish playwright Thomas Kilroy, this unfocused monologue posing as three-dimensional drama purports to allow Oscar Wilde's lover, Lord Alfred Douglas, to have his say. But his muddled stream of soul-searching reflection, bitter rant and paranoid conjecture never coalesces into a lucid point of view or a compelling narrative (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)20110224
'A Perfect Future' Every boozy get-together during which alcohol consumption strips the masks from seemingly civilized people is doomed to be compared with ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' But even on its own terms, David Hay's ''A Perfect Future'' is hobbled by its inherent artificiality. While the director, Wilson Milam, and his capable four-member cast keep the production sleek and snappy, the characters onstage are less real people than slices of a political and ideological pie chart. Pre- or post-meltdown, these folks are unsubtle constructs (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)20110224
- 'Play Dead' The magician Teller directed and helped create this gleefully gruesome frightfest for grown-ups, in which Todd Robbins, noted light-bulb eater and expert in sideshow freakishness, discusses death, afterlife and some particularly creepy historical figures while working some very effective tricks. Screaming is expected, and audience members are subject to being hauled onstage and ghoulishly murdered (1:30). Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Genzlinger)20110224
'Thinner Than Water' There are few more crowded thematic fields in contemporary American drama than the messed-up family, but Melissa Ross strikes some fresh notes in her debut play, a sensitively observed look at how three quarrelsome half-siblings respond to the news that their estranged father is dying. Mimi O'Donnell, the longtime costume designer for the LAByrinth Theater Company, who recently became one of its artistic directors, takes the reins with a firm, unfussy hand that bodes well for her future undertakings (2:00). Cherry Pit, 155 Bank Street, West Village , (212) 513-1080, labtheater.org. (Rooney)20110224
- 'Three Sisters'Austin Pendleton's wonderfully fresh and affecting production of Chekhov's 1900 drama gives the illusion of life happening as it happens, unscripted and untidy, funny and sad. The fine cast, which goes with this flow with convincing ambivalence, includes Jessica Hecht, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Juliet Rylance and Peter Sarsgaard (3:00). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village , (212) 352-3101, classicstage.org. (Brantley)20110224
- 'Through the Night' Daniel Beaty's poetic solo show about black men struggling with and taking charge of their lives is a thing of beauty. His wit, grit and piercing lyricism speak to African-American men, but his deepest meanings transcend race and gender. Monday only (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)20110224
- 'Vieux Carre' Techno wizardry takes a back seat in the Wooster Group's typically provocative but surprisingly reverent version of Tennessee Williams's 1977 memory play set in a New Orleans boarding house in the late 1930s. The text is presented essentially straight, putting the focus on the superlative performances of Ari Fliakos, Scott Shepherd and Kate Valk (2:00). Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'What the Public Wants' The Mint's lifeless production of Arnold Bennett's comedy about a media baron who believes selling news is like selling soap (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 315-0231, minttheater.org. (Zinoman)20110224
'The Whipping Man' Matthew Lopez's atmospheric play depicts the evolving relationships between two former slaves (Andre Braugher and Andre Holland) and an ex-Confederate soldier (Jay Wilkison) in the immediate aftermath of the Civil War. The novelty: all three are Jewish (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)20110224
Off Off Broadway
'American Sexy' A moralizing drama worries over the hook-up culture of young people in the age of MTV's ''Skins'' (1:20). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa , (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Zinoman)20110224
- 'Baby Wants Candy' A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised musical, making it look effortless. Saturday only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village , (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com. (Zinoman)20110224
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Eve Plumb's time as Jan on ''The Brady Bunch'' didn't give her the improvisational ease necessary for this show, in which she plays an advice-giver who draws her suggestions about love and romance from ancient etiquette guides and health manuals. Ms. Plumb never looks comfortable, and despite bits of audience participation, the show never feels spontaneous (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street , missabigailsguide.com. (Genzlinger)20110224
'My Last Play' Ed Schmidt announces he's retiring from the theater in a moving meditation on failure packaged in a theatrical stunt (1:10). In Mr. Schmidt's living room in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn , edschmidt.info/id5.html. (Zinoman)20110224
'Sky Boys: the Building of the Empire State Building' Making Books Sing, an organization that adapts children's books into theater, has translated a thin, plotless picture book into an intriguing family musical, set in 1930, about a 13-year-old who hides in the partly finished Empire State Building rather than sleep at a home for boys. There he falls in with a Mohawk Indian water boy (a girl in disguise) and a group of Indian ironworkers. Though the show is almost too sunny in its depiction of the Great Depression, it never fails to entertain and to cast valuable light on the role of Indians in the making of the Manhattan skyline (1:00). Abrons Arts Center., 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side , (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Graeber)20110224
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village , (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'Celebrity Autobiography: In Their Own Words' Comics and actors in a rotating cast read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.20110224
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Gauguin/Savage Light' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.20110224
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway , (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'Love, Loss and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street , (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'Memphis' A musical about an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20110224
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, Second Avenue at Eighth Street, East Village , (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.20110224
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.20110224
Last Chance
'A Couple of Poor, Polish-Speaking Romanians'; closes on Saturday. This 2006 intensity-fest by the controversial young Polish writer Dorota Maslowska makes its New York premiere. A charged all-night joy ride across Poland by the title characters gradually takes on darker shadings, solidifying Ms. Maslowska's credentials as a provocateur who needn't rely on shock value (1:50). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, near Pitt Street, Lower East Side , (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Eric Grode)20110224
'Heaven on Earth'; closes on Sunday. Charles L. Mee collaborated with performers from Witness Relocation and the French group Idli! Eldi on this collage-type play, featuring dance, skitlike sequences and bits of text. The actors are buoyant, but the show -- nominally about the possibilities for finding happiness after civilizations crumble -- too often feels random (1:15). Ellen Stewart Theater at La MaMa, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Saltz)20110224
- 'In the Pony Palace/Football'; closes on Saturday. Erin Markey shines as a ferocious wide receiver in this giddy, gender-bending portrait of high school football (1:10). The Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wycoff Avenues, Bushwick, Brooklyn , brownpapertickets.com/event/142273. (Zinoman)20110224
'Interviewing the Audience'; closes on Sunday. The genial Zach Helm selects audience members for onstage interviews in this show inspired by the original production created by Spalding Gray. Collective revelation and collective boredom are both possibilities (1:10). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street , (212) 352-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)20110224
'Korach'; closes on Saturday. Sixty-three years after co-founding the Living Theater, Judith Malina is the writer and director of this pageantlike examination of the anarchist faction that took on Moses and lost. With more than two dozen performers at her disposal, Ms. Malina shows a rigorous eye for stage pictures -- and an occasional tin ear when it comes to dramatic nuance (1:20). The Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side , (212) 352-0255, livingtheatre.org. (Grode)20110224
'Mistakes Were Made'; closes on Sunday. The formidably talented Michael Shannon plays a crass, grasping theater producer in Craig Wright's intermittently funny but ultimately wearying showbiz satire (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20110224
'The New York Idea'; closes on Sunday. The playwright David Auburn has performed major cosmetic surgery on Langdon Mitchell's 1906 satire of divorce and matrimony, making it slimmer and lighter on its feet. He has also stripped it of most of its original, provocatively barbed personality. Mark Brokaw directs the amiable cast (1:45). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village , (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Brantley)20110224
- 'Other Desert Cities'; closes on Sunday. The only problem with Jon Robin Baitz's seriously satisfying play is that you need to see it five times. That's because you never want to take your eyes off a single member of the five-person cast (Stockard Channing, Stacy Keach, Linda Lavin, Elizabeth Marvel and Thomas Sadowski) in this gorgeously acted drama, directed by Joe Mantello (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Brantley)20110224
'The Road to Qatar!'; closes on Sunday. There was a funny show to be made out of the real-life experiences of Stephen Cole and David Krane, who in 2005 were hired to write an American-style musical to be staged in the Middle East. This misfire from the York Theater Company, though, isn't it. In writing a musical about the creation of a musical, Mr. Cole and Mr. Krane no doubt hoped to convey the zaniness of what they experienced, but all they really convey is a fondness for thudding ethnic stereotypes (1:45). York Theater Company at the Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street , (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Genzlinger)20110224
'Small Craft Warnings'; closes on Sunday. Melancholy poetry goes to war with cliche in this overwritten late Tennessee Williams play, set in a bar full of brooding misfits on the Southern California coast. Pared to little more than a staged reading, Austin Pendleton's enervated production for the Mother of Invention theater company suffers from a deadening lack of atmosphere and a wildly uneven cast. Playing the small role of a gay screenwriter anesthetized to tenderness, Mr. Pendleton provides one of the few glimpses of emotional insight beneath the dramatically inert miserablism (2:00). Studio Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)20110224
'When I Come to Die'; closes on Saturday. Nathan Louis Jackson's sober drama about death row is admirable for its lack of sentimentality, if short on theatrical verve. Chris Chalk plays an inmate whose execution goes awry (1:30). LCT3 at the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street , (646) 223-3010, new42.org/duke. (Isherwood)20110224

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE MILK TRAIN DOESN'T STOP HERE ANYMORE': Olympia Dukakis, with Darren Pettie, gives a fearless, vanity-free performance as the dying gorgon Flora Goforth in Tennessee Williams's patchy 1963 play about the anguish and fear that can attend our going forth into the unknown (2:15). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Charles Isherwood) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); WRITERS (77%); DANCE (74%); DANCE COMPANIES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



646 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Strong Holiday Season Lifted the Bottom Line at Target, Kohl's and Gap

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Several major retailers on Thursday posted increases in profit during the quarter that included the holiday shopping season, and even Sears Holdings, which reported a 13 percent decline, topped Wall Street's forecasts.
But three stores reporting profits, the clothing retailer Gap, the discount chain Target and the family department store operator Kohl's, warned that stubborn unemployment and rising costs for commodities like cotton and fuel were combining to make consumers cautious about discretionary spending.
The retailing market ''is not enjoying robust growth,'' said Douglas A. Scovanner, Target's chief financial officer, adding that the economy is a ''wild card'' for the months ahead. 
Target said its fourth-quarter profit was helped by a promotion that provided discounts to shoppers using its branded credit card and by an expanded grocery selection.
For the quarter, Target reported net income of $1.03 billion, or $1.45 a share, up 10.5 percent from $936 million, or $1.24 a share, in the period a year earlier.
Revenue in the period, which ended Jan. 29 and was the fourth quarter of Target's fiscal year, rose 2.4 percent, to $20.66 billion.
Analysts expected earnings of $1.39 a share on revenue of $20.7 billion, according to FactSet.
Shares of Target, which is based in Minneapolis, rose $1.74, to $52.
Kohl's said sales of shoes and men's clothing increased during its fourth quarter.
The company said profit rose to $493 million, or $1.66 a share, from $431 million, or $1.40 a share, a year earlier. Revenue jumped 6 percent, to $6.04 billion from $5.68 billion.
Kohl's chief executive, Kevin Mansell, said that in the second half of this year, Kohl's plans to introduce two exclusive brands: Jennifer Lopez women's clothing and accessories and a Marc Anthony men's line.
''The combination of the two brands is the largest brand initiative in terms of scope and investment we will have ever made,'' Mr. Mansell said.
He hopes ''newness'' of the brands will generate customer enthusiasm in the face of price increases that begin this spring.
Kohl's announced its first-ever dividend Wednesday, and it said Thursday that it was increasing its stock repurchase program to $3.5 billion.
Shares of Kohl's, which is based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., rose $1.78, to $53.80.
Sears Holdings said it earned $374 million, or $3.43 a share, in the fourth quarter, down from $430 million, or $3.74 a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue fell 1 percent, to $13.14 billion.
Excluding one-time items, the profit topped the $3.67 expected by analysts, and sales beat the Wall Street forecast for $13.02 billion.
Revenue at stores open at least a year fell 1.2 percent, pulled down by a 4.5 percent decline at its Sears stores. More than half of the decline was because of consumer electronics, which has had a sharp drop in prices.
Results were mostly hurt by weakness in its hardline categories, which include hardware, housewares, automotive, electronics, sporting goods, toys and health and beauty items.
Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.5 percent at the Kmart division of Sears. The chain reported strong sales of jewelry, clothing, toys, footwear and sporting goods but experienced weakness in its foods, consumables and pharmacy categories.
The investor Edward S. Lampert, who controls Sears, called the results unacceptable.
On Wednesday, the company named Louis J. D'Ambrosio, who worked at Avaya, a telecommunications company, and at I.B.M., as its new chief executive. Mr. D'Ambrosio has worked as a consultant to the board of Sears for the last six months.
Shares of Sears, which is based in Hoffman Estates, Ill., fell $4.83, to $82.40.
Gap said its fourth-quarter income rose nearly 4 percent as improving business at both the higher-priced Banana Republic and lower-priced Old Navy chains made up for weakness in its namesake division.
The company also said it was buying back $2 billion in shares, on top of recent share repurchases totaling $2.6 billion, and it was raising its dividend by 5 cents, to 45 cents a year.
It said its net income rose to $365 million, or 60 cents a share, from $352 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 3 percent, to $4.36 billion.
For the fourth quarter, revenue at stores open at least a year was the same as a year earlier. In the company's Gap division in North America, that measure fell 2 percent for the quarter, capping another declining year.
The figure has been falling on an annual basis for the Gap brand since 2005, and that has analysts wondering how long it will take to turn the division around.
At both Banana Republic's and Old Navy's domestic divisions, the comparison rose 1 percent for the fourth quarter.
Gap, which is based in San Francisco, released its results after the close of market trading and in the after-hours session its stock rose about 1 percent. It ended regular trading at $22.49 on the New York Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Improving business at the Banana Republic and Old Navy chains strengthened earnings for Gap in the fourth quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MEN (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (67%); CREDIT CARDS (54%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); GAP INC (84%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); GPS (NYSE) (84%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: KEVIN B MANSELL (56%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



647 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Resurgent G.M. Posts 2010 Profit Of $4.7 Billion

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors, which nearly collapsed from the weight of its debts two years ago before reorganizing in a government-sponsored bankruptcy, said on Thursday that it earned $4.7 billion in 2010, the most in more than a decade.
It was the first profitable year since 2004 for G.M., which became publicly traded in November, ending a string of years in which losses totaled about $90 billion. 
The improvement was a result of eliminating debt during and after bankruptcy, and years of effort at reducing factory output, cutting labor costs and developing more enticing cars and trucks.
As a result of its performance, G.M. said 45,000 union workers would receive profit-sharing checks averaging $4,300, the most ever.
''Last year was one of foundation-building,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, said in a statement. ''Particularly pleasing was that we demonstrated G.M.'s ability to achieve sustainable profitability near the bottom of the U.S. industry cycle, with four consecutive profitable quarters.''
Mr. Akerson also expressed confidence in G.M.'s ability to withstand pressure from oil costs as growing violence in the Middle East drove up prices.
When prices surged in July 2008, peaking at $145 a barrel, GM suffered badly. Sales plunged 27 percent at a time when the automaker was laying off workers and cutting costs to try to stay solvent.
This time, executives and analysts say the company should have a much different outcome.
''We were concerned about this well before it was on the front page of any paper,'' Mr. Akerson said on a conference call. ''By the end of this year, we'll have four really good entries in the compact segment with high-mileage models. We're hitting North American with the right products.''
Those products include the Chevrolet Cruze, a compact car that was a vast improvement over the poorly rated Chevrolet Cobalt, which G.M. offered in 2008, and the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid car.
This year, it will introduce the Chevrolet Sonic, its first American-made subcompact, and the Buick Verano, an upscale adaptation of the Cruze, whose highway fuel economy can top 40 miles a gallon.
G.M. has also had such high demand for crossover vehicles like the Chevy Equinox that it has struggled to make enough of them.
''There's no problem in the car business that good products won't fix, and they've had a good run of products,'' said James Bell, executive market analyst with Kelley Blue Book, which provides car-buying information. ''If we get another run-up of gas prices, G.M. could be sitting like Sylvester with Tweety Bird in his mouth. They're going to have very fresh products just in time for people to look at those segments.''
To be sure, G.M. still has a more truck-heavy lineup of vehicles than its Asian or European rivals, which could affect sales if fuel prices rise further. A rebound in truck sales was responsible for a large part of G.M.'s profits last year.
Investors, knowing that rising gas prices will most likely cut into G.M.'s truck sales, sent shares of the company down 4.5 percent on Thursday, to close at $33.02. Earlier in the day, the stock traded below the initial public offering price of $33 for the first time.
But G.M.'s cars, which have lower profit margins than trucks, also were big contributors to its profits for the first time in many years, even though it sold fewer of them after cutting four of its eight brands.
The average amount buyers paid for G.M. cars and trucks rose nearly $2,200, or 7 percent, in 2010 from the previous year, according to TrueCar.com, which tracks industry pricing and sales.
''G.M.'s improvement in terms of their sales and profitability has been far better than we would have hoped for a year ago,'' Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends and insight at TrueCar.com, said. ''The main change in the company has been their renewed emphasis on profitability versus blindly going after market share.''
By eliminating much of its debt in bankruptcy and significantly cutting labor costs, G.M. reduced its break-even point, so that it needs to sell about two million vehicles a year in the United States to be profitable, half the number it needed to three years ago. It sold 2.2 million last year, compared with about 3.8 million in 2007, when it lost more than $38.7 billion, the most ever for any automaker.
In 2011, most automakers and analysts are forecasting total industry sales in the United States of about 13 million, 12 percent more than the 11.6 million sold last year. Even if gas prices rise, sales are not likely to be much lower than projected, though consumers may shift their focus toward smaller vehicles, Mr. Toprak said.
But in that case, G.M. would still be expected to remain profitable, rather than losing billions as it did in the past when that happened, he said.
Globally, G.M.'s sales rose 12.2 percent in 2010, to 8.39 million, coming within about 30,000 vehicles of retaking the title of world's largest automaker from Toyota. For the first time, it sold more cars and trucks in China, where its sales rose 28.8 percent from 2009, than in the United States, where sales were up 6.3 percent. That was less than the 11 percent increase for the industry over all, but the elimination of four brands contributed to G.M.'s smaller increase.
The federal government, which exchanged much of the $50 billion it lent to G.M. for a 61 percent ownership stake, sold a large part of its stake in the public offering, but still owns 500 million shares, a stake of roughly 26 percent.
In addition to the profit-sharing checks for hourly workers, which it is contractually obligated to pay, G.M. this month said 26,000 salaried workers in the United States would receive bonuses of about 4 to 16 percent of their pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



648 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Menendez Gears Up for 2012 Senate Race, With Christie Looming as a Factor

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey spent the past two years as chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, trying to help Senate colleagues around the country retain their seats.
Now, Mr. Menendez has another seat to worry about: his.
Polls and interviews suggest that he is facing problems in a state where the Republican Party is energized under a new governor, Chris Christie. 
Though he is not up for re-election until 2012, Mr. Menendez is taking no chances. Like a candidate in a tight race (which he is not), he has been crisscrossing the state meeting with older residents, unions, suburban voters, women's groups and other constituencies.
Mr. Menendez, the state's junior senator, has also been pounding at Republicans, and presenting his agenda on a range of issues important to residents, including domestic security, mass transportation, drilling off the New Jersey coast and initiatives to support drug companies and other major industries in the state.
Strategists in both parties say Mr. Menendez's situation is potentially perilous, noting that the nation's hobbled economy makes him and other incumbents targets for challengers.
Though he expressed confidence in his re-election, Mr. Menendez acknowledged the dour mood of the electorate. ''People are not happy,'' he said in a recent interview.
Still, he enjoys the advantages of incumbency and the benefit of running in a state that has not elected a Republican senator since the 1970s.
National and local Republicans, meanwhile, are trying to recruit a candidate to run against him, hoping to turn New Jersey into a battleground in the fight for control of the Senate.
One of the potential candidates being mentioned is Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican majority leader in the State Senate who ran unsuccessfully against Mr. Menendez in 2006, a strong year for Democrats.
Top Republicans say another person discussing a run against Mr. Menendez is John F. Crowley, a wealthy pharmaceutical executive whose efforts to find a cure for Pompe disease, a rare genetic disorder afflicting his children, were chronicled in the 2010 movie ''Extraordinary Measures.''
In some respects, Mr. Menendez should be riding high.
After years as a backbencher in the Senate, he has emerged as one of the top Democrats in the chamber, widely regarded for his political instincts and his fund-raising prowess.
As chairman of the Senate Democrats' campaign committee, he raised $129.5 million during the midterm election of 2010. To put that in context, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, one of Washington's most formidable fund-raisers, brought in $121.4 million as head of the committee during the previous midterm election in 2006.
While Democrats lost six seats in the Senate last fall, Mr. Menendez was credited by his Senate colleagues with helping the party maintain its majority during what turned out to be a brutal season in which Democrats lost control of the House.
More than that, though, Mr. Menendez managed to earn good will among senators he worked behind the scenes to re-elect, including Barbara Boxer of California, who said he kept close tabs on her during the campaign and dispatched money and other resources when needed.
''I'm going to be there for him,'' she said in an interview, referring to his race next year. ''I told him I would go to New Jersey if it helped him; I would go to the Jewish community and the women's community. I told him I would raise funds.''
As Mr. Menendez looks toward his campaign, his supporters and advisers acknowledge that he has his work cut out.
A poll by Quinnipiac University this month showed that Mr. Menendez's job approval rating was below 50 percent, a potential danger sign for any incumbent. The poll found that 44 percent approved of his job performance, and 36 percent of people surveyed said that they had an unfavorable view of the job he was doing as senator.
Twenty percent said they did not have a firm opinion of Mr. Menendez, favorable or unfavorable, even after more than five years in office.
But his advisers say his poll numbers reflect an assortment of factors that have less to do with him than with the idiosyncratic nature of the state's politics.
First, they say, New Jersey voters are notoriously skeptical, even in the best of times. Second, they add, it is hard for any politician to break through with a statewide message because New Jersey media outlets are divided between two markets, New York City and Philadelphia.
So Mr. Menendez and his advisers plan to raise at least $20 million over the coming months, in large part to finance a statewide advertising blitz to shore up his standing before Election Day. He now has about $2.5 million in his campaign treasury, according to the most recent finance disclosure statements.
''This is a very tough state,'' Mr. Menendez said, speaking of the difficulty in attracting free media attention. ''We will spend millions of dollars next year on paid media.''
But Republicans say his problems are much deeper than the peculiarities of New Jersey politics. In particular, Republicans dispatched by the national party are trying to draw attention to a four-year-old continuing federal investigation into a nonprofit community agency that paid Mr. Menendez more than $300,000 in rent at the same time that he was helping the group obtain federal grants.
That investigation was started by Mr. Christie, when he was the United States attorney in Newark. It became public two months before Mr. Menendez's 2006 election, leading to criticism of Mr. Christie by Democrats who charged that the inquiry was politically motivated.
The investigation has yet to result in any charges, prompting Mr. Menendez's supporters to urge the Justice Department to issue an official statement declaring it closed. But that has not happened.
By many accounts, the episode has left bitter feelings between Mr. Menendez and Mr. Christie, a combative politician who is said to be scouting candidates to run against the senator, as he seeks to rebuild the state Republican Party after a period of decline.
But Mr. Menendez is taking the long view. ''I've gone through this before,'' he said, recalling his election in 2006. ''All the public polls had me down. And I won by nine points.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey was the chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BYSUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); ORPHAN DRUGS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); SUBURBS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GENETIC DISEASES (61%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



649 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage Seems to Wane as Conservative Issue

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's decision to abandon his legal support for the Defense of Marriage Act has generated only mild rebukes from the Republicans hoping to succeed him in 2012, evidence of a shifting political climate in which social issues are being crowded out by economic concerns.
The Justice Department announced on Wednesday that after two years of defending the law -- hailed by proponents in 1996 as an cornerstone in the protection of traditional values -- the president and his attorney general have concluded it is unconstitutional. 
In the hours that followed, Sarah Palin's Facebook site was silent. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, was close-mouthed. Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, released a Web video -- on the labor union protests in Wisconsin -- and waited a day before issuing a marriage statement saying he was ''disappointed.''
Others, like Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Haley Barbour, the governor of Mississippi, took their time weighing in, and then did so only in the most tepid terms. ''The Justice Department is supposed to defend our laws,'' Mr. Barbour said.
Asked if Mitch Daniels, the Republican governor of Indiana and a possible presidential candidate, had commented on the marriage decision, a spokeswoman said that he ''hasn't, and with other things we have going on here right now, he has no plans.''
The sharpest reaction came from Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, in an interview here during a stop to promote his new book, who called the administration's decision ''utterly inexplicable.''
A few years ago, the president's decision might have set off an intense national debate about gay rights. But the Republicans' reserved response this week suggests that Mr. Obama may suffer little political damage as he evolves from what many gay rights leaders saw as a lackluster defender of their causes into a far more aggressive advocate.
''The wedge has lost its edge,'' said Mark McKinnon, a Republican strategist who worked for President George W. Bush during his 2004 campaign, when gay marriage ballot measures in a dozen states helped turn out conservative voters.
Mr. Obama's move provoked some outrage, especially among evangelical Christians and conservative groups like the Family Research Council. In a statement Wednesday, Tony Perkins, president of the council, condemned the president's decision as pandering.
But Republican strategists and gay rights activists said on Thursday that the issue's power as a political tool for Republican candidates is diminishing. While surveys suggest that Americans are evenly divided on whether the federal government should recognize gay marriages, opposition has fallen from nearly 70 percent in 1996.
Prominent Republicans like Dick Cheney, the former vice president, and Barbara Bush, daughter of the former president, have defended the right of gays to marry. And Mr. Obama has been emboldened by the largely positive response to his recent, and successful, push for Congress to repeal ''don't ask, don't tell,'' the military's ban on gays serving openly.
At the same time, the rise of the Tea Party movement, and the success that Republicans had last year in attacking Democratic candidates on economic issues, has pushed the debate over abortion and gay rights to the back burner.
''I don't think this is the issue that it once was,'' said John Feehery, a Republican strategist. ''I think that the economic issues are so big that this one pales in comparison.''
In his first two years in office, Mr. Obama drew criticism from gay rights advocates who thought he was dragging his feet on their issues. Those same advocates see the shift as evidence that with an eye on the 2012 campaign, the president has calculated that the benefits of responding to his base outweigh the risks of upsetting conservatives who wouldn't be voting for him anyway.
Among them is John Aravosis, the founder of Americablog.com, who in a 2009 blog post called the administration's first legal brief in a Defense of Marriage Act case ''despicable'' and ''homophobic.'' Mr. Aravosis said on Thursday he is ''much happier'' with Mr. Obama, adding: ''I think the gay community got to him. I'm not convinced we got to his heart, but I think we got to his political head.''
Others, like Kerry Eleveld, editor of EqualityMatters.org, a new Web site, say Mr. Obama appears to be evaluating the politics of gay rights issues differently since the positive response to the don't ask, don't tell repeal from people on the political left, many of whom have criticized him over issues like health care, climate change and immigration.
''He got this big bump from it in terms of the progressive base, and didn't get a whole lot of heat, and I think that has given him a little more heart in feeling like L.G.B.T. issues aren't as toxic as a lot of people have been painting them for the past 20 years,'' she said.
While Mr. Obama has changed his legal position on the Defense of Marriage Act, his personal views on same-sex marriage -- he opposes it, but favors civil unions -- have not changed, the White House says.
A big question is whether they will. Mr. Obama has said his views are ''evolving,'' and some expect he will announce his support for same-sex marriage as he campaigns for re-election. But that could complicate Mr. Obama's efforts to appeal beyond his liberal base.
''It's still part of Obama's record now,'' said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist, who has advised Mr. Romney. ''It's one where it looks like he's changing his position.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Huckabee criticized the administration's new position, but many were silent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); BALLOTS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); REFERENDUMS (60%); RELIGION (60%); INTERNET VIDEO (54%); LABOR UNIONS (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (73%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



650 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Encounters A Speed Bump

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and IAN CAMPBELL

 BODY:
The Middle East is giving General Motors its first big test since it left the junkyard. As shares of G.M. hover at their November initial public offering price, investors are not forgetting what happened when oil prices surged last time around. When crude prices in the United States reached $100 a barrel in 2008 -- a level they returned to this week -- G.M.'s profit center in trucks and sport utility vehicles took a big hit.
To be fair, a spike in prices at the pump is not likely to send G.M. back into bankruptcy. G.M., the Detroit behemoth, shed more than enough liabilities in its 2009 reorganization to survive. And it cut an additional $17 billion in debt last year. The question is whether it has overhauled its operations radically enough to turn a decent buck making smaller cars. 
Shareholders are clearly anxious. G.M.'s stock fell 4.5 percent after the company announced fourth-quarter earnings, while Ford Motor's stock declined 1 percent. That left G.M. shares at only cents above the $33 I.P.O. price, having dipped below it earlier in the day.
The stock dropped partly because the carmaker's $510 million profit was not as good as it looked. G.M. exceeded expectations, and probably made money in the quarter, only as a result of $800 million in one-time revenue gains, including $200 million each from paying off debt to the U.A.W. health care trust and from reassessing contingent liabilities on assets owned by the old G.M. that is still in bankruptcy.
But G.M.'s results also exposed how a dip in truck and S.U.V. sales -- in the quarter before the turmoil began in the Middle East -- can still hurt. That reduced North America earnings before interest and taxes by $600 million in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter. In addition, G.M. had to offer more incentives.
G.M. has offered more fuel-efficient vehicles in recent years, including the electric Chevy Volt. For now, though, it looks as if investors are wary of giving the company the benefit of the doubt. Rightly so: G.M.'s management, led by its new chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, has yet to show that this time it is different.
Oil Shock
Oil still lubricates the global economy and could make it seize up. Prices for Brent crude above $110 a barrel raise the specter of previous shocks. Judged by fundamental supply and demand, there is no reason for prices to remain so high. But a sustained spike would be a big problem for economic growth.
Quantifying that problem is an inexact science. In 2004, the International Energy Agency calculated that an increase of $10 a barrel would reduce gross domestic product growth in developed countries by 0.4 percent a year over the next two years. It would also add 0.5 percent to annual inflation. The impact would be more severe in the developing world: in Asia, growth would be 0.8 percent lower and inflation 1.4 percent higher.
But the energy agency's estimates were made when oil cost just $25 a barrel. While a $10 price increase today is lower in percentage terms, the absolute level is much higher: at the current price, oil consumption accounts for more than 5 percent of global G.D.P.
The world today probably uses oil more efficiently. Even so, the recent increase poses dual threats of inflation and recession. High growth rates in China, India and other emerging economies mean inflation is already rising. More expensive oil will hurt consumers, but give extra impetus to inflation. Governments and central banks will face a dilemma: to tighten now, or increase inflation risks by assuming the shock is temporary.
In the developed world, the great threat is to growth. In the euro zone periphery, higher oil prices will make recovery more difficult. But the European Central Bank will probably still respond to a further climb in inflation which, at 2.4 percent, is already above target. In Britain, the 15 percent annual increase in fuel prices is already the chief factor behind the 4 percent inflation rate. The danger that oil could push Britain back into recession is real.
Globally the impacts will intertwine. Damage to Western consumers will harm the exports and growth of emerging economies. The threat will recede if the Persian Gulf escapes serious unrest and prices retreat. But the longer oil remains expensive, the more global nerves will jangle.
ANTONY CURRIE and IAN CAMPBELL
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 15 percent annual rise in British fuel prices is driving inflation of 4 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EBITDA (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (63%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



651 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: In Surprise, Boeing Wins Contract for Tankers

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
In a surprise twist to a long-running saga, the Air Force said on Thursday that it would award a $35 billion contract for aerial fueling tankers to Boeing rather than to a European company that builds Airbus planes.
William J. Lynn III, the deputy defense secretary, said Boeing was ''the clear winner'' under a formula that considered the bid prices, how well each of the planes met war-fighting needs and what it would cost to operate them over 40 years. 
After weighing all the factors, the Pentagon determined that Boeing's bid was more than 1 percent below that of its rival, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, Mr. Lynn said. If the bids had been within 1 percent, the Air Force would have considered 92 additional requirements for the plane as a tiebreaker, and some of those were widely thought to favor the larger EADS plane.
The Air Force said the first phase of the contract would be worth $3.5 billion, and it would cover the construction of the first 18 tankers by 2017. Boeing would build 179 tankers in all for about $35 billion.
Boeing, its supporters in Congress and independent analysts were all surprised by the outcome, because in recent days, the Chicago-based company seemed to have given up hope of winning.
Lawmakers from Washington State, where Boeing assembles a substantial portion of its planes, had complained that the Pentagon had given EADS extra time to bid and had put in place several evaluation rules that seemed to favor the European company, which had submitted its bid through a North American subsidiary.
And the choice could still face opposition from lawmakers on the Gulf Coast, who were counting on EADS's promise to build an assembly plant in Mobile, Ala., that would have created thousands of jobs.
''I'm disappointed but not surprised,'' Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said. ''Only Chicago politics could tip the scales in favor of Boeing's inferior plane. EADS clearly offers the more capable aircraft. If this decision stands, our warfighters will not get the superior equipment they deserve.''
Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, called the decision ''a major victory for the American workers, the American aerospace industry and America's military.''
In a phone interview from her state, she said, ''Everybody here is ecstatic. Our economy has been struggling, and this is a good news announcement that we really needed.''
EADS had contended that its plane was bigger and better. EADS had also lined up companies from other politically important states, like Ohio, to supply parts.
The company has 10 days to decide whether to protest the decision. But it gave no indication of its plans in a statement Thursday. EADS said only that it was concerned that the Air Force had selected a ''high-risk, concept aircraft'' over its ''proven, more capable'' refueling tanker.
Under the contract, Boeing will eventually build 14 planes a year at plants in Washington and Kansas. The victory will also enable the company to keep open the 767 production line at its assembly plant in Everett, Wash.
EADS's confidence that it could win the competition stemmed partly from the success that its A330 series had in commercial sales over Boeing's 767 jetliners. And Boeing had planned to phase out the 767 when its new 787 Dreamliner is ready for delivery.
The contract, which could be the largest awarded for many years as military budgets tighten, could eventually reach $100 billion. The tankers are like flying gas stations. They transfer fuel in mid-flight to fighters, bombers and cargo planes.
Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va., said the victory could also help Boeing in its battle with Airbus in their much larger fight over sales of passenger jets and freighters.
If EADS had won the tanker contract, it planned to eventually assemble commercial freighter planes at the plant in Mobile, giving it a manufacturing foothold that could help expand other sales in the United States.
And with sharp budget cuts in Europe, ''EADS also faces a home defense market that is imploding like a black hole,'' Mr. Aboulafia said. ''So it was imperative that they get this contract.''
The award could signal the end of a long and often embarrassing effort by the Air Force to replace its aging tankers, which date to the Eisenhower and Kennedy years.
The bidding represented the service's third attempt to obtain new tankers since 2001. The first effort collapsed after Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, blew the whistle on corruption involving an airplane-leasing proposal with Boeing.
Northrop Grumman and EADS then won in 2008, only to have government auditors block the award after Boeing protested that the evaluation had been too subjective.
Northrop dropped out last year, prompting the Pentagon to extend the bid deadline to give EADS more time out of concern that Boeing could charge a higher price if it were the only bidder.
Boeing had complained that EADS could rely on subsidies from European governments to undercut Boeing's price or to absorb losses if it won the contract with a low bid. Boeing's concerns were heightened after a World Trade Organization panel concluded last year that Airbus could not have fielded all its models, including the A330 series, when it did without the subsidies.
Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., had said it would be hard for Boeing to match EADS's price while still meeting shareholder expectations for a reasonable profit.
And at an investment conference this month, Mr. McNerney described Boeing's final offer as ''an aggressive but responsible bid.'' He also told the investors: ''I think the people in this room would be glad if we won at the bid level we put in and would be happy if we lost at a lower level.''
Under the proposed leasing deal in 2001, the Air Force would have paid Boeing over $20 billion for 100 tankers, or more than $200 million a plane. Northrop Grumman has said that the bids fell to around $184 million in 2008. Most analysts thought they could come in 5 to 10 percent below that this time, and that Boeing would have to accept low profit margins to win the contract.
But Boeing's triumph could also irritate European leaders. And it could set back Pentagon efforts to encourage bids from foreign companies to create more competition and bring down the cost of weapons systems.
The mayor of Mobile, Samuel L. Jones, said city officials had been confident that EADS would win. ''It's very, very disappointing,'' he said, ''especially since we had won this competition in 2008.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boeing had seemed to give up hope in recent days of building aerial fueling tankers for the Air Force. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOEING, VIA REUTERS) (B1)
 The Air Force's decision could face opposition from lawmakers on the Gulf Coast, where building the EADS tankers was expected to create jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENSE AND SPACE COMPANY, VIA REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); POLITICS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (62%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (85%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); EAD (PAR) (85%); EAD (MCE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: PATTY MURRAY (56%); RICHARD SHELBY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (78%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



652 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Pick The Winners In the Mideast

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the Obama administration grapples with a cascade of uprisings in the Middle East, it has come to a stark recognition: the region's monarchs are likely to survive; its presidents are more likely to fall.
In the rapidly changing map that stretches from Morocco to Iran, two presidents have already tumbled: Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia. Administration officials said they believe that Yemen's authoritarian president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, is in an increasingly tenuous position.
Yet in Bahrain, King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa has so far managed to weather a surge of unrest, winning American support, even though his security forces were brutal in their crackdown of protesters. Officials believe that King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia is also unlikely to be dethroned, while the emirs of the Persian Gulf have so far escaped unrest. Even in Jordan, where serious protests erupted, King Abdullah II has maneuvered deftly to stay in power, though he still has to contend with a restive Palestinian population. 
This pattern of kings holding on to power is influencing the administration's response to the crisis: the United States has sent out senior diplomats in recent days to offer the monarchs reassurance and advice -- even those who lead the most stifling governments. But it is keeping its distance from autocratic presidents as they fight to hold power.
By all accounts, that is more a calculation of American interests than anything else.
''What the monarchies have going for them are royal families that allow them to stand above the fray, to a certain extent,'' said Kenneth M. Pollack, the director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. ''It allows them to sack the government without sacking themselves.''
Many of the monarchs have run governments every bit as repressive as the presidents'. And the American calculation of who is likely to hang on to power has as much to do with the religious, demographic and economic makeups of the countries as with the nature of the governments.
Arab presidents pretend to be democratically chosen, even though most of their elections are rigged. Their veneer of legitimacy vanishes when pent-up grievances in their societies explode. Most of the presidents oversee more populous countries, without the oil wealth of the gulf monarchies, which would enable them to placate their populations with tax cuts and pay raises, like the kings of Saudi Arabia and Jordan have done recently.
The Americans acknowledge that they have no choice but to support countries like Saudi Arabia, and that all of the situations could change rapidly.
A case in point is Libya, where Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi -- neither a king nor a president -- has been brought to the verge of collapse with dizzying speed.
On Thursday, the administration failed again to evacuate diplomats and other American citizens from Libya. A ferry chartered by the United States government remained tied up at a pier in the capital, Tripoli, unable to sail to Malta because of heavy seas in the Mediterranean.
The 285 passengers are safe, according to the State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, but they cannot leave the ship, which he said is guarded by Libyan security forces. A hotel across the street from the pier has been the site of gun battles between rebels and loyalists of Colonel Qaddafi, witnesses said.
The stalled evacuation has led the Obama administration to temper its condemnations of Colonel Qaddafi's government, because officials worry that the Libyan government could take Americans hostage. But Mr. Crowley said Thursday that the United States would support a European proposal to expel Libya from the United Nations Human Rights Council, when it meets in Geneva on Monday.
Unlike in the case of Egypt, where President Obama spoke by phone with Mr. Mubarak several times during the crisis there, neither he nor any other American official has spoken with Colonel Qaddafi since the violence erupted. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was unable to reach the foreign minister, Moussa Koussa, Mr. Crowley said, citing a technical glitch.
The under secretary of state for political affairs, William J. Burns, did speak twice with Mr. Koussa, he said, and conveyed the administration's ''concern'' that Libya continue to cooperate with the evacuation.
The spotty American communication with Libya contrasts with the regular phone calls Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have held with Arab monarchs. King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia pressed Mr. Obama in at least two conversations to back Mr. Mubarak. Since his ouster, an administration official said, Saudi officials have expressed some misgivings about their support for the former Egyptian leader.
So far, the kings appear to be hanging on.
The administration is sanguine that the Saudi royal family will survive any upheaval, though some acknowledge that they misread the prospects for change in Egypt. Earlier this week, King Abdullah, returning home from three months of medical treatment abroad, announced a $10 billion increase in welfare spending to help young people marry, buy homes and open businesses.
The administration has urged Saudi Arabia not to impede King Hamad's attempt to undertake reforms in Bahrain, an island connected to Saudi Arabia by a causeway and dependent on the Saudis for political and economic support. Saudi Arabia is rattled by the prospect of Bahrain's Shiite Muslim majority's gaining more political power, at the expense of its Sunni rulers, in part because Saudi Arabia has a substantial Shiite population in its east.
American officials have sought to keep the focus on what they insist have been concessions made by Bahrain, where the Navy's Fifth Fleet is stationed, as a sign that the protests can prod the king, and the crown prince who will head the dialogue with the protesters, in the right direction.
Similarly, in Jordan, King Abdullah, who faces a tricky situation because of his majority Palestinian population, has signaled a willingness to cede some power to an elected government or parliament. American officials and independent experts say that they think that could allow him to hang on to power. The administration's clear hope is that all these kingdoms will eventually be constitutional monarchies.
''That approach to Jordan or Bahrain is the right approach; these are countries that have moved in the right direction, but not enough,'' said Elliott Abrams, a Middle East adviser in the Bush administration who has been a frequent critic of the Obama administration. ''Constitutional monarchy is a form of democracy.''
There has been far less unrest in other Persian Gulf states, like the United Arab Emirates, Qatar or Kuwait -- in part, experts say, because they are essentially regal welfare states, where citizens pay no taxes and are looked after by the government. In the United Arab Emirates, for example, when one citizen marries another citizen, the government helps to pay for the wedding and even to buy a home.
Even so, an administration official noted, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, Mohammed bin Zayed, recently toured less prosperous parts of the United Arab Emirates to hold town-hall-style meetings -- at least a nod to democratic rule.
''The truly wealthy societies like Qatar, the U.A.E. and Kuwait have greater advantages,'' said Ted Kattouf, a former United States ambassador to Syria. In many ways, he added, ''the monarchies have more legitimacy than the republics.''
In Yemen, a lack of legitimacy is plaguing President Saleh and the prospect of instability there poses national security problems for the United States, which has had the government's support for counterterrorism operations. Protesters are demanding his resignation even after he pledged not to seek re-election. The administration is pushing Mr. Saleh -- a crafty authoritarian who has manipulated factions in his country to cling to power for 30 years -- to revive a stalled effort at constitutional reform, though an official expressed pessimism about the likelihood of progress.
''The republics -- and hence, the presidents -- are the most vulnerable because they're supposed to be democracies but ultimately are not,'' said an Arab diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''They pretend people have a voice, but this voice doesn't exist. With the monarchy, no one's pretending there's a democracy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters have ousted the autocrats Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia, top, and Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FETHI BELAID/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES
 AMR ABDALLAH DALSH/REUTERS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); ELECTION FRAUD (62%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); JORDAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOROCCO (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); YEMEN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



653 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'EVERYTHING STRANGE AND NEW'; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Bye-Bye, Happiness; Life Is a Trap

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Frazer Bradshaw's eerie, melancholy film ''Everything Strange and New'' captures a sensation that can suddenly overtake you: that everyday life is as weird as any piece of science fiction. If there are no aliens or spaceships to be seen, the strangeness consists of jolts of information and confusion that seem to arrive from out of the blue.
The protagonist and narrator, Wayne (Jerry McDaniel), is a married carpenter in his early 40s who has two young boys and lives in Oakland, Calif. Quietly ruminating on the meaning of life in voice-over monologues, his tone nearly expressionless, he sounds almost like a man in shock. Or if not in shock, someone whose rage is so compressed that he dare not raise his voice, lest he start screaming uncontrollably. 
Wayne's once-happy marriage to his wife, Renee (Beth Lisick), has stagnated, along with the economy that claimed her well-paying job at a small advertising agency; she now does occasional freelance work. Because the mortgage on their house is now worth more than the house itself, there is no end in sight to their financial obligations.
The title of the movie, filmed on a minuscule budget, is cruelly double-edged, for on the surface there is nothing notably strange or new about Wayne's monumentally banal existence. The immediate feeling that grips them both is an overwhelming sense of resignation and entrapment and certainty that their happy days are behind them.
Wayne's two best friends -- his recently divorced drinking buddy, Leo (Rigo Chacon Jr.), and his neighbor Manny (Luis Saguar) -- share his malaise. Each has a major secret that is revealed late in the movie.
''Everything Strange and New'' unfolds as a series of deliberately disconnected parts that have the feel of random snapshots inviting you to read meaning into what is left unsaid and unseen beyond the frame. As the camera gazes through a doorway, Wayne overhears Renee yelling at her unruly children in another room.
She goes through extreme mood swings that suggest bipolar disorder. She irrationally harangues Wayne that he worries too much about money, when a lack of money is obviously weighing on their marriage. At other moments, she is seductive. But the dominant attitude she projects is a bone-deep resentment.
Scenes are punctuated with disturbing whooshes of dissonant string orchestration and images of Wayne in clown makeup. (For what it's worth, the production notes explain that Mr. McDaniel played a clown in his first feature film.) There is a suggestion at the end of the film, after a sudden, violent tragedy, that Wayne may have completely snapped, but it is only a suggestion.
In any case, this intriguing, sometimes frustrating, in some ways amateurish movie is a work of vaulting artistic ambition. The production notes compare the style of Mr. Bradshaw, a cinematographer making his directorial debut, to Andrei Tarkovsky, Robert Bresson and the young Zhang Yimou. By the end of the film, you feel as though the characters had just awakened into a scary new world in which there were no signposts signaling any direction of where to go or what to do.
EVERYTHING STRANGE AND NEW
Opens on Friday in Brooklyn.
Written and directed by Frazer Bradshaw; director of photography, Mr. Bradshaw; edited by Mr. Bradshaw and Jesse Spencer; art director, Corey Weinstein; produced by Laura Techera Francia and A. D. Liano; released by IndiePix. At the reRun Gastropub Theater, 147 Front Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes. This film is not rated.
WITH: Jerry McDaniel (Wayne), Beth Lisick (Renee), Luis Saguar (Manny), Rigo Chacon Jr. (Leo) and Oliver McDaniel and Finnegan McDaniel (Kids).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry McDaniel stars in ''Everything Strange and New.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCKY HAT ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Everything Strange and New (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



654 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; HAVANA JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: For Communist Cuba, a Lifeline From Those With Money to Burn

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BURNETT

 BODY:
HAVANA -- Simon Chase, a British sage of the cigar world, stood in an elegant hotel salon here on Wednesday before a select group of aficionados, scrutinizing a box of 1970s cigars for evidence of their proclaimed vintage.
One clue, he said, was the style and quality of the seal on the box. Another was the cigar's old-fashioned, slightly domed end, or ''cabeza tumbada.'' 
The group muttered with interest and lit up, using cedar strips, or spills, to avoid contaminating their cigars with lighter fumes. Gray wisps curled into the air, and a brief hush fell as they solemnly considered the $90 smokes.
The private tasting by some of Cuban tobacco's most devoted connoisseurs took place on the fringe of Havana's Cigar Festival, an annual, five-day whirl of grand receptions, talks and plantation visits organized by Habanos S.A., a joint venture between the Cuban government and Britain's Imperial Tobacco.
The event, much of which is staged at a gloomy 1970s convention center, is a somewhat surreal eruption of luxury in a landscape that, after five decades of Communist rule, is an odd melange of tropical exuberance and stern socialism.
Cubans are inveterate smokers, and men and women alike suck on huge ''tabacos'' that cost about four cents. But with salaries of around $20 per month, very few islanders could afford even the least expensive offerings from Habanos, whose retail prices on the international market can go as high as about $80 apiece.
Still, the sale of cigars to wealthy foreigners helps bring in hard currency, which the government desperately needs to finance programs like health and education. At a lavish dinner to close the festival on Friday, organizers hope to raise as much as $1 million for the Cuban public health system from the auction of humidors.
''If you love cigars, Havana is what Jerusalem is to a Christian: the Holy Land,'' said Bryan Ng, who owns an oyster bar in Hong Kong and was on his first visit to Cuba.
About 1,200 retailers, distributors and enthusiasts flocked to the Cuban capital this week to fraternize and indulge their penchant for what many consider the world's finest tobacco.
Among them was a sprinkling of American cigar lovers, who came through third countries or traveled on religious or humanitarian licenses, arriving in time for the festival. Habanos is banned from selling cigars to the United States under the trade embargo, but the company says it accounts for about 80 percent of premium, hand-rolled cigar sales in the rest of the world.
Paul Segal, who had his first cigar in Cuba in 2003 when he was on a humanitarian trip to help the island's Jewish community, was making his fourth visit to the festival this week, bringing with him medicines and other supplies. At home in San Diego, he smokes Cuban cigars only occasionally, if someone brings them as a gift.
''I'm crazy obsessed for cigars,'' he said during a master class where hundreds of participants learned to roll their own. ''To see the whole process, from the seed to the leaves to the cigar factory, that's very cool.''
The question of whether the huge American cigar market would open anytime soon hovered over the festival. Habanos officials said they were not banking on any change in American policy, despite the recent decision to further ease restrictions on travel by Americans.
Mr. Chase, a consultant who was in the Cuban cigar trade for decades, said Cuba could, in theory, meet added demand from the United States, if allowed. Any loss of cachet that would result from no longer being a forbidden product would be compensated for by added sales, he said.
''Lifting the embargo would cause some upheaval, but Cuba could handle it,'' he said. ''Cuban cigars compete on their own merit.''
Habanos's sales have been hit in recent years by the global economic downturn and the spread of smoking restrictions to countries like Spain, its biggest market. But the company was upbeat this week, saying sales rose 2 percent last year, to $368 million, as China overtook Germany as its number three customer.
The company, which owns well-known brands like Cohiba, Partagas and Romeo y Julieta, introduced some stubbier cigars this week that could be smoked more quickly by those forced to slip outside.
The festival is paradise for smokers who bridle under smoking bans. Participants puff their way through sommelier contests, fancy lunches and talks on cigar arcana, enveloping conference rooms and coffee bars in a thick haze of pungent smoke.
Participants held blindfold tastings in which experts tried to identify unlabelled cigars, and at other sessions tried pairing cigars with rum and chocolate. Mr. Chase even gave a 45-minute lecture Wednesday morning to a packed conference room on the history of the aluminum tubes used to package Cuban cigars -- an account more lively than its subject matter would suggest.
''It's an intense week: lots of caffeine, lots of tobacco'' and no sleep, said Alex Iapichino, an Italian lawyer who hosted the private tasting.
Away from the fray, Wednesday's coterie of connoisseurs determined that their 40-year-old cigar had been well preserved. It was a round, even smoke, they said, and had retained some delicate aromas.
Mr. Iapichino looked around the group, an eccentric mix from a dozen different countries that included a Japanese man who skewered his cigar on a custom-made metal pin to protect his fingers.
''This is the only place where I get to share cigars with all these people together,'' he said.
When he left Cuba, his cigars would evoke the smells and sounds of the island, he said.
''As Churchill said,'' he smiled. ''I always have Cuba on my lips.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds of participants learned to roll their own cigars on Wednesday during a class at Havana's Cigar Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); FESTIVALS (88%); SMOKING (78%); AUCTIONS (74%); RETAILERS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); RELIGION (61%); JOINT VENTURES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011



655 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Reads and Reactions

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Reaction from around the web to the latest 538 blog posts. 

 BODY:
Reactions:
Nate's analysis of a Rasmussen poll on the showdown in Wisconsin over public employee unions' ability to bargain collectively was echoed by Mark Blumenthal at The Huffington Post, who saw many of the same defects in the poll that Nate did.
Steve M., writing at No More Mister Nice Blog, agreed with those criticisms, but he cautioned against completely discounting the level of public antagonism toward unions.
And at the National Journal's Hotline On Call, Steven Shepard compared the Rasmussen poll to two polls, one released by the AFL-CIO and one by USA Today/Gallup.
Jonathan Bernstein at A Plain Blog About Politics had two quibbles with Nate's graphical view of the G.O.P.'s presidential bullpen. Mr. Bernstein says, "It's difficult to predict where candidates will position themselves before they run" and, "It's a bit misleading to divide [the ideological] space, as Silver does, into equal parts."
Over at Hot Air, Jazz Shaw used the graphic to consider what position gives a candidate the best chance to win the nomination and the general election.
Reads:
The Economist maps out a report from the World Health Organization on the drinking habits of different nations. Hint: if you are European or live in a former Soviet state, you probably drink a lot.
The folks at Hoopism plot the history of the N.B.A.'s slam dunk contest by score, complete with video of almost every dunk.
Responding to Sarah Palin's recent comment that the price of milk is "so high," Andrew Gelman at The Monkey Cage checks the data.
And finally, Barry Pump, at his eponymous blog, looks at the relationship between unionization levels and taxes.

        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads and Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%); MILK (50%) Reads & Reactions; Politics

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); UTAH JAZZ (55%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (72%); SARAH PALIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



656 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: U.S. 4th-Quarter Growth Figure Is Lowered, Dimming Hopes for Jobs

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Amid fears of an oil shock and a further slide in housing comes news that America's economic recovery is weaker than previously thought.
Growth in the fourth quarter of 2010 was slower than initially reported, at an annual pace of 2.8 percent rather than the previous estimate of 3.2 percent, according to data released on Friday by the Commerce Department. Economists had been predicting an upward revision, to about 3.3 percent.
The latest number is particularly disappointing because it is so far below what the country needs to put a significant dent in the unemployment rate, now at 9 percent. In fact, the latest growth rate is lower than the average of the last 80 years, which was 3.4 percent. 
Given how quickly the economy shrank during the recession, and how much the population has grown since then, the country desperately needs faster growth to help the millions of people who have lost their jobs.
''Normally you'd expect growth above trend, so we've got some catch-up,'' said Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics. ''But we're not absorbing much of what we lost during the recession.''
Developments since the end of last year, including the unrest in the Middle East and the disruption of some oil production, could depress growth this quarter. Each 1-cent increase in the price of gasoline takes about $1 billion out of the pockets of consumers over the course of a year, leaving them less money to spend on other goods and services.
''Consumers stumbled a bit to start the year, and while we expect them to pick up the pace some in coming months, the recent rise in energy prices poses a notable headwind,'' said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. Shortly after the Commerce Department report was released, JPMorgan cut its forecast for growth this quarter to 3.5 percent from 4 percent.
One of the more significant revisions last quarter was in state and local government spending, which contracted at an annual pace of 2.4 percent rather than the 0.9 percent previously estimated. Continued government budget shortfalls indicate that more cutbacks could be coming.
''There's no denying that state and local governments are going to be a modest drag on the economy this year,'' Mr. Ashworth said. ''Cuts will probably go on for another few quarters, possibly a year, and then start to see a gradual rebound.''
Tax revenue has already started recovering, according to the Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York, Albany. But that revenue may not rise quickly enough to make up for the dwindling dollars in emergency assistance that the federal government approved for states last year.
Federal spending cuts sought by Republican Congressmen could similarly threaten the economic recovery, analysts say. Economists at Goldman Sachs earlier this week estimated that a spending bill recently passed by the House -- which would trim $60 billion in spending in the current fiscal year -- would shave 1.5 to 2 percentage points off growth in the second and third quarters of this year.
Such cuts in government spending can reverberate partly because they throw more people into the unemployment pool, and they in turn have less money to spend. They also strip government services from others who are already unemployed or who are trying to get back on their feet.
The engines of economic growth last quarter were a shrinking trade deficit and consumers, who account for more than two-thirds of the economy and whose spending grew at an annual rate of 4.1 percent. The contributions to growth of both these categories was slightly less than initially estimated, however.
A separate report released Friday, from Reuters and the University of Michigan, showed that an index of consumer sentiment rose to 77.5 in the February final release, from 75.1 in the preliminary report, the highest reading since January 2008.
Another potentially positive indicator in Friday's output report was that business inventories -- that is, what companies keep on their stockroom shelves -- were very low last quarter. That means that businesses should be increasing their orders early this year to replenish their shelves, and perhaps putting more workers into jobs in the process.
The Federal Reserve recently estimated that the economy would grow 3.4 to 3.9 percent over the course of 2011.
''Although the unemployment rate will rise a bit in the first half of 2011, as stronger job gains draw more of the unemployed into the labor force, it will move consistently lower toward the end of 2011,'' said Augustine Faucher, director of macroeconomics at Moody's Analytics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A jobs fair in Anaheim, Calif. A downward revision in the economic growth rate cast further uncertainty on improvement in the job market, especially as cuts in government spending continue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



657 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Two Directions for the Prices of Natural Gas and Oil

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
CRUDE oil prices have risen this year, and this week they briefly touched $100 a barrel for the first time since 2008.
But not everyone felt the pinch. While gasoline prices were rising in the United States, the cost of heating most homes was actually falling a bit. Natural gas prices are well below their levels at the end of 2010.
As the accompanying charts show, natural gas fell to a historical low relative to oil this week. The price of natural gas is now less than one-quarter that of oil on an energy-equivalent basis. 
That steep divergence reflects the fact that while natural gas and oil can sometimes be used as substitute fuels, for the most part they are two different markets. One is global, while the other is continental. And that can make all the difference.
As the charts show, the prices of the two can vary sharply. In the early 1990s, gas was relatively cheap because of what was called the ''gas bubble'' in the United States. Then excess supply held down the price. As the American economy picked up steam, the price difference all but vanished by early 1994.
By late 2000, the price advantage had moved sharply in the other direction. That was when California briefly experienced a shortage of electricity generation, and prices for gas to fuel power plants went through the roof. But the advantage did not last long, and with the American economy in recession the price of gas fell rapidly in 2001.
More recently, something similar has happened. In mid-December 2008, with world trade flows plunging and virtually all economies stumbling, oil and gas prices neared parity. But since then oil prices have risen by about 175 percent, adjusted for inflation, while gas prices are down by more than 25 percent.
While the lack of rising demand has played a role in holding down the North American price for natural gas, increased supplies from exploitation of shale oil have also played a role. Josef Auer, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, speculated this week that efforts might be made to build an infrastructure that would allow the United States to export liquefied natural gas in ships. But any impact of that on markets would be years off.
A generation ago, the developed world, and particularly the United States, provided the marginal demand for oil. That gave the United States something of a self-correcting mechanism. If high oil prices damaged the American economy, that would in turn reduce demand and help to bring world oil prices back down.
But now the marginal demand is more likely to come from China. In 2009, the last year for which figures are available, the world consumed 11 percent more oil than it had used a decade earlier. The regional pattern changed sharply in that time. The United States, Japan and the developed countries of Europe all used less oil. The rest of the world increased consumption by about a third.
As a result, the stronger recovery in developing countries has helped to push up oil prices over the last 15 months, even though the Western economies have been stumbling. Oil can be shipped anywhere, and tankers can be diverted rapidly from one country to another if demand patterns change. For now, at least, natural gas in North America can move only in pipelines.
Over the last several weeks, the upward price pressure on oil from a booming China has been supplemented by worries about a reduction of supply as revolutions grip the Middle East. The run-up to $100 oil came as Libyan production was falling. The price retreated a bit when Saudi Arabia promised to produce more if necessary to offset a cutoff of Libyan exports.
Signs of Mideast stability would no doubt reduce upward pressure on oil prices. But sharp price declines may be unlikely unless, and until, Asian economies stumble and decrease their demand for oil.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Weekly price: in Jan. 2011 dollars*
Difference in price between natural gas and oil: for equivalent energy value
World oil consumption: Millions of barrels a day
Change in oil consumption (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets
 U.S. Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BIOFUELS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



658 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Shares Climb as Oil Prices and Supply Concerns Ease

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose Friday as oil prices stabilized after climbing through the week. The escalating turmoil in Libya still left major indexes down about 2 percent for the week.
Oil prices settled at $97.88, down from a high of $103 Thursday but still up 13 percent over the last week. Oil prices have been rising, and that has sent stocks lower over concern that the violence in Libya will spread throughout North Africa and the Middle East and affect oil production. 
Those concerns eased late Thursday after the International Energy Agency said the impact was far less than analysts had estimated and that any shortfall could be easily made up by tapping oil reserves in other countries.
Libya is Africa's largest producer of oil but ranks 15th among the world's oil exporters.
Boeing rose 2.2 percent after the Air Force awarded the company a $35 billion contract Thursday, one of the largest ever made by the military, for nearly 200 airborne refueling tankers. DreamWorks Animation fell 2.8 percent after the entertainment company reported revenue and earnings that were far below what analysts were expecting. Poor box-office results from the Will Ferrell movie ''Megamind'' were partly to blame.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 61.95 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 12,130.45. It was the first rise for the Dow after three days of losses.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.78 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,319.88. The Nasdaq composite rose 43.15 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,781.05.
All three indexes are still down for the week, largely a result of the fighting in Libya.
Higher oil prices also weigh on the United States economy by increasing the costs of moving goods and filling up gas tanks. A sustained $10 increase in the price of oil translates into a 0.2 percent cut in economic growth over 12 months, according to a recent estimate by economists at Goldman Sachs.
Treasuries inched up Friday on reports the economy grew more slowly than first thought in the last three months of 2010. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 10/32, to 101 25/32, and the yield fell to 3.41 percent, from 3.45 percent late Thursday.
The Commerce Department said the economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the October-December quarter.
That was weaker than the previous estimate of 3.2 percent. In an effort to close budget gaps, state and local governments have cut spending much more deeply than previously thought.
Despite this week's slide, the S.& P. 500 is up 2.6 percent in February and 4.9 percent for the year.
Stronger earnings from a wide range of companies, including Archer Daniels Midland and Dell, have helped drive stocks higher. On Friday, five stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); AIR FORCES (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); MOVIE REVENUES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ANIMATION (67%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); TICKET SALES (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%)

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (56%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); DWA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



659 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s Abandoned Babies

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Republicans need to figure out where they stand on children's welfare. They can't be ''pro-life'' when the ''child'' is in the womb but indifferent when it's in the world. Allow me to illustrate just how schizophrenic their position has become through the prism of premature babies. 
Of the 33 countries that the International Monetary Fund describes as ''advanced economies,'' the United States now has the highest infant mortality rate according to data from the World Bank. It took us decades to arrive at this dubious distinction. In 1960, we were 15th. In 1980, we were 13th. And, in 2000, we were 2nd.
Part of the reason for our poor ranking is that declines in our rates stalled after premature births -- a leading cause of infant mortality as well as long-term developmental disabilities -- began to rise in the 1990s.
The good news is that last year the National Center for Health Statistics reported that the rate of premature births fell in 2008, representing the first two-year decline in the last 30 years.
Dr. Jennifer L. Howse, the president of the March of Dimes, which in 2003 started a multimillion-dollar premature birth campaign focusing on awareness and education, has said of the decline: ''The policy changes and programs to prevent preterm birth that our volunteers and staff have worked so hard to bring about are starting to pay off.''
The bad news is that, according to the March of Dimes, the Republican budget passed in the House this month could do great damage to this progress. The budget proposes:
$50 million in cuts to the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant that ''supports state-based prenatal care programs and services for children with special needs.''
$1 billion in cuts to programs at the National Institutes of Health that support ''lifesaving biomedical research aimed at finding the causes and developing strategies for preventing preterm birth.''
Nearly $1 billion in cuts to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for its preventive health programs, including to its preterm birth studies.
This is the same budget in which House Republicans voted to strip all federal financing for Planned Parenthood.
It is savagely immoral and profoundly inconsistent to insist that women endure unwanted -- and in some cases dangerous -- pregnancies for the sake of ''unborn children,'' then eliminate financing designed to prevent those children from being delivered prematurely, rendering them the most fragile and vulnerable of newborns. How is this humane?
And it doesn't even make economic sense. A 2006 study by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies estimated that premature births cost the country at least $26 billion a year. At that rate, reducing the number of premature births by just 10 percent would save thousands of babies and $2.6 billion -- more than the proposed cuts to the programs listed, programs that also provide a wide variety of other services.
This type of budgetary policy is penny-wise and pound-foolish -- and ultimately deadly. Think about that the next time you hear Republican representatives tout their ''pro-life'' bona fides. Think about that the next time someone uses the heinous term ''baby killer.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Preterm Infants and Mortality: The United States now has the highest infant mortality rate of any of the 33 countries described by the International Monetary Fund as ''advanced economies.'' (Source: The World Bank
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); PARENTING (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); INFANT MORTALITY (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); BIOETHICS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (68%); BIOMEDICINE (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



660 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Use It Up, Wear It Out

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Throw away the cellphone after two years? Not so fast. Ditch the flat-panel TV for an even thinner model? Maybe next year. Replace the blouse with the hole? Darn it!
Consumer spending has picked up, but for some Americans the recession has left something behind: a greater interest in making stuff last.
For a number of products -- cars, phones, computers, even shampoo and toothpaste -- the data shows a slowing of product life cycles and consumption. In many cases the difference is mere months, but economists and consumers say the approach just may outlast a full recovery and the return of easy credit, because of the strong impression the downturn made on consumers.
It is hardly the stuff of generations past, those stung by the Great Depression, who held onto antediluvian dishware and stored canned goods until rust formed on the lids. But for the moment, many citizens of a throwaway society are making fewer visits to the trash and recycling bins. 
In the case of Patti Hauseman of Brooklyn, that meant sticking with a five-year-old Apple computer until it started making odd whirring noises and occasionally malfunctioning. She and her boyfriend bought a new computer for Christmas -- actually, a refurbished one.
''A week later, the old one died. We timed it pretty well,'' Ms. Hauseman said with a laugh. Her cautious approach applies to other products: she is holding out on upgrading two seven-year-old tube-type TVs, and has taken to mending clothes rather than replacing them.
Ms. Hauseman, 41, a general manager of an independent record label, said this mentality was the product of several factors, including bills that have swelled more quickly than her income. She said it was not so much that she could not afford new things, but that the last few years of economic turmoil had left her feeling that she could be stealing from her future by throwing away goods that still had value.
''I've started upgrading for necessity, not vanity,'' she said, adding that to do otherwise ''just does feel wasteful.''
Whether a broad, long-term shift in consumer habits is under way is a question tickling economists and analysts. Some insist that, as with the Depression, the recent downturn has made a lingering impression on how people view the propriety of, say, stuffing a still-working cellphone into a desk drawer in favor of a newer model.
But other experts and historians argue that as spending and credit return, so will yearnings to favor brands, fashion and novelty over practicality.
With some products, the upgrade cycle is actually accelerating. According to NPD, a market research firm, consumers in 2010 reported spending more to upgrade major kitchen appliances like refrigerators than they did in 2008 or 2009, when such spending fell. The firm found similar trends at work in smaller kitchen and personal care appliances.
In the case of televisions, upgrades have slowed, but only because so many people snapped up flat-panel sets in recent years. There is now a lull in the product cycle, but not necessarily in consumer demand.
Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University, said it was simply too soon to tell whether economic recovery would bring back a more disposable society. ''There aren't enough aggregate statistics since the crash for us to know,'' he said.
But in some important categories there are indications of slowed upgrades. Consumers are holding onto new cars for a record 63.9 months, up 4.5 months from a year ago and 14 percent since the end of 2008, according to Polk, a research firm. In fact, the firm said, when used cars are included, the average length of car ownership stands at 52.2 months, also a record.
Industry analysts also report that people on average upgrade their cellphones every 18 months, up from every 16 months just a few years ago. They hold onto their laptops an average of 4 years and 4 months, a month longer than they did a year ago, though that figure has been creeping up since 2000.
And consumers are making sure to get the last drop from their household products, said Ali Dibadj, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who covers big companies like Colgate-Palmolive and Clorox.
''People are squeezing the last bit out of the shampoo. They seem to be adding more water to really squeeze out the last bit,'' Mr. Dibadj said, noting financial reports from major companies showing frugality with things like razor blades, laundry detergent and toothpaste. ''Consumers are doing their best to conserve -- we're seeing it again and again and again.''
Nancy F. Koehn, a professor at the Harvard Business School and a historian of consumer behavior, said she would bet her boot collection that the change was, if not permanent, at least lasting. She said it stemmed not just from a shaky economy but also from a sense that great institutions -- like government and major corporations -- might not be reliable saviors in a crisis.
''We're not going back to a time of our grandmothers' tales of what they kept and how they used things so carefully. But we'll see a consistent inching or trudging towards that,'' Professor Koehn said. ''It's a glimmer of that, a flickering of it.''
For Walt Truelson, a management consultant in Portland, Ore., that has meant a shift in his lifelong love affair with cars, specifically Jaguars. He typically bought a new or slightly used one every year or two, but has had his current car, a 1999 model in dark green, for four years. ''It's going to stay in my possession as long as it runs,'' he said.
Mr. Truelson, who declined to give his age because he said he acts much younger than he is, also switched 18 months ago to paying for cellphone minutes as he uses them, rather than subscribing to an expensive monthly plan.
He said the changes reflect in part the fact that his business fell with the economy, but also what he says is a reassessment of the need to constantly have new things: ''It's a question of shifting values.''
In a few cases, consumers who are inclined to discard less are getting some positive reinforcement from an unlikely corner: companies that profit from upgrades.
Levi Strauss is telling customers to take steps that will actually lead them to buy fewer pairs of jeans. The Levi's sustainability campaign urges customers to wash their jeans less often and in cold water, a move that the company says reduces water use.
''And they absolutely will last longer,'' said Michael Kobori, vice president for social and environmental sustainability at Levi's. He said the message was part of building trust with consumers and emphasizing the durability of the company's products.
When it comes to holding onto clothing, Genevieve Tung, 28, needs no campaign to motivate her. She has recently mended ripped socks and pants, sewn buttons onto jackets and gone to great lengths to save a peach silk blouse stained by soy sauce.
''I tried several home remedies involving dishwashing detergent and baking soda, had it dry-cleaned twice,'' she said. ''I bought fabric dye I'm going to cook on the stove and hope the dark color dye will blend in.''
Ms. Tung, who lives in Brooklyn, recently left a corporate law job to go back to school, a move that curtailed her income. She is also worried about relying over the long term on the pension of her husband, a New York City paramedic, given how unreliable pensions seem.
She says there are other motivations too: ''Personally, avoiding waste and using things until they're used up seems like a common-sense way to live.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (B1)
 Walt Truelson of Portland, Ore., a Jaguar buff who used to buy a new or slightly used car every year or two, has kept his latest one four years. And he switched to a prepaid cellphone plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Not Buying It: Car owners in the United States have been holding on to their purchases longer and longer since 2008. (Source: R. L. Polk & Co.) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); HISTORY (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (76%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



661 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Paying for Old Age

BYLINE: By HENRY T. C. HU and TERRANCE ODEAN. 
Henry T. C. Hu is a professor at the University of Texas School of Law. Terrance Odean is a finance professor at the University of California at Berkeley.

 BODY:
LIFE expectancy at birth for Americans is about 78. But many Americans will die well before then, while others, like Eunice Sanborn, who died in Texas last month, will live to be 114.
Anyone planning for retirement must answer an impossible question: How long will I live? If you overestimate your longevity, you might scrimp unnecessarily. If you underestimate, you might outlive your savings.
This is hardly a new problem -- and yet not a single financial product offers a satisfactory solution to this risk. 
We believe that a new product -- a federally issued, inflation-adjusted annuity -- would make it possible for people to deal with this problem, with the bonus of contributing to the public coffers. By doing good for individuals, the federal government could actually do well for itself.
The insurance industry sells an inflation-adjusted annuity that goes part of the way toward helping people cope with the possibility of outliving their savings. During your working years or at the time of retirement, you can pay a premium to an insurance company in exchange for the promise that the company will pay you a fixed annual income, adjusted for inflation, until you die.
But in a world in which A.I.G. had an excellent rating only days before it became a ward of the state, how can someone -- particularly a young person -- know for sure which insurance companies will be solvent half a century from now? Annuities aren't federally guaranteed. The only backstops are state-based systems, and the current protection ceilings are sometimes modest. If an insurance company goes under, the retiree may end up with nothing close to what was promised.
The federal government can offer a product that solves that problem. Individuals would face no more risk of default than that associated with Treasury bills and other obligations backed by the United States.
Here's how it would work. Initially, people who wanted to buy this insurance would enroll through one of the qualified retirement savings plans already offered to the public, like a 401(k) plan, and could choose this annuity option instead of, or in addition to, investments in stocks, bonds or mutual funds.
How much the payouts would be could be based on a variety of factors, including interest rates on government bonds; mortality tables that, among other things, take into account that healthier people are more likely to buy annuities; and administrative costs. This new product wouldn't cost the government a penny. In fact, the Treasury would benefit. It is only an incremental move beyond issuing inflation-adjusted bonds, which the Treasury already does. By allowing the government to tap a new class of investors, the cost of government borrowing over all would probably drop.
Moreover, by expanding the government's base of domestic investors, the plan would help address overreliance on foreign lenders, who now own close to half of all outstanding federal debt -- nearly 10 times the proportion in 1970. True, the government would be on the hook if a technological breakthrough caused an unanticipated increase in life expectancy. But that's a risk that the government is already bearing implicitly: that is, a drastic enough increase could threaten the solvency of private issuers of annuities as well as the many retirees who don't have annuities, creating pressure for government bailouts of insurers or individuals. Taking on the risk explicitly and pricing the fair cost of this risk into the annuities is a far preferable route.
There is also the concern that government-issued annuities would crowd out private annuity sales. To the contrary: they could spur growth in private annuities. Since the inflation-adjusted monthly payments on such risk-free government annuities would be low, many retirees may choose to supplement them with riskier, higher-paying annuities.
Furthermore, insurance companies could be allowed to package the government-issued annuities with their own products, creating appealing combinations that mix safety and the potential for higher returns.
Our proposal is a winner for everyone. The Treasury could lower borrowing costs and diversify its investor base while acknowledging and budgeting for risk that it already bears. Individuals could eliminate the risk of living too long. By looking at the promised rate of return on the annuities, individuals will have a better sense of how much they need to save. The Eunice Sanborns of the world, as well as all taxpayers, would rest a little easier at night.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); US 401K PLANS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



662 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Casualties of the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's Feb. 22 column, ''At Grave Risk,'' was the most insightful and courageous article I have read in a long while.
I, too, am one of the millions who have suffered in this continuous economic downturn. I have gotten myself and my family back on solid ground in spite of the predatory, unscrupulous dealings of banks, mortgage companies, the government and every other concern that is interested only in its own excessive behavior and profit.
There is no American dream. We are just a country of pawns who are at the mercy of a ruling elite. If things don't change quickly, America will become no better than a third-world country. 
Rich Becker East Brunswick, N.J., Feb. 23, 2011
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert argues that the great recession has left many Americans feeling betrayed by the promise of the American dream. Now employment and productivity are ''at grave risk.''
More than the economic ruin caused by unemployment in America, there are also the psychological effects it causes. It ultimately unfavorably balances our social order and throws a wrench into our ethic of morality revolving around work.
In short, lack of work breeds depression and affects not only the individual but also the community and the greater world at large.
This is a problem with many facets and must be approached by psychologists as well as potential employers in the marketplace.
The growing trend among employers to discriminate against those who are unemployed is disgraceful. The government must research and devote full energy to this serious problem affecting the life of every American.
Norman Singer Cary, N.C., Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
I was deeply saddened and angry at the report from the National Employment Law Project mentioned in Bob Herbert's column that sheds light on a new trend of employers to employ only people who currently have a job. Not only is this despicable behavior, but it is also highly unethical.
It would seem that there are those in the business world who believe that those who are unemployed are losers, or should not be hired because they are depressed. Yet it is because of their own business practices that look only at the bottom line, and greed at the top, that many of these people are out of a job.
I certainly hope that the National Employment Law Project will find a way to publish the names of these employers who are doing everything to keep the money flowing up the ladder instead of down to the workers.
We need to know who is following this trend so that we can let them know what we think of their hiring practices.
Thomas T. Peters Stirling, N.J., Feb. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's Feb. 20 column, ''The Human Cost of Budget Cutting,'' should sound an alarm for all who care about our nation's poor and most vulnerable.
No one understands better the tradeoffs that must be made to balance a budget than our nation's low-income families. In their effort to cut spending, our leaders could learn something from these families about priorities.
Just one example: The House has approved cutting $20 million in financing to the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, which provides boxes of nutritious food to about 600,000 people, most of whom are the low-income elderly. The elderly who qualify can have incomes of no more than about $14,000 a year. The cut means that about 80,000 people will be eliminated from this program, many of them our nation's most at-risk population, the impoverished elderly.
Eliminating a single box of food each month may not seem like a significant loss, but not if you are one of the elderly who rely on that box of food to make the difference between eating three square meals a day or going hungry.
Vicki Escarra Chicago, Feb. 22, 2011
The writer is president and chief executive of Feeding America, a network of 200 food banks that serve 37 million Americans a year.
To the Editor:
In addition to the human costs of budget cutting cited by Bob Herbert is another tragic result of a nation ''ill clad, ill housed and ill nourished,'' as Franklin D. Roosevelt defined it during the Great Depression.
That result is a continuation of generations of children ill prepared for school and for acquiring the learning skills essential in this century. Community action agencies are frequently the only force holding families together, a critical element in fostering school readiness.
Not only will our poor children suffer outwardly, but their inner means of expression will also be further diminished, causing our failing schools to become so much the poorer.
Jerrold Ross Dean, School of Education St. John's University Jamaica, Queens, Feb. 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JUSTIN GABBARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); ETHICS (89%); TRENDS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



663 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Assembly Passes Anti-Union Bill as Senate Democrats Stay Away

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Susan Saulny contributed reporting from Indianapolis.

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis. -- Over shouts of protest from Democrats, the Republican-controlled Wisconsin State Assembly passed a bill in the early morning hours Friday that would strip state employees of most of their collective bargaining rights. But there was no sign that a stalemate over the proposal would end, as Democrats in the Senate remained out of the state after fleeing to prevent their own vote on the proposal. 
The 51-to-17 vote just after at 1 a.m. in the Assembly drew boos and shouts of ''Shame! Shame!'' from Democrats who said that leaders had abruptly cut off debate and prevented more than a quarter of the legislators from casting votes. It came during the second week of sustained demonstrations inside and around the Capitol. Union workers and others from Wisconsin and nearby states continued to protest the proposals backed by the new governor, Scott Walker, a Republican elected in November.
Some Republican leaders in other states have moderated their talk against state employee unions in recent days. But in Wisconsin, Mr. Walker traveled the state on Friday in an effort to put more pressure on the Senate's 14 Democrats to return from Illinois.
Democrats said the early-morning vote showed that Republicans had little interest in negotiating. They ''rushed a vote in seconds, cheating Democratic representatives of the opportunity to vote against this horrible legislation,'' said the leader of the Assembly's Democrats, Peter Barca. ''Then they fled the chamber surrounded by armed law enforcement agents,'' he said.
Republicans said the Assembly debated the bill long enough during a three-day Democratic filibuster. Mr. Walker said in a statement, ''The 14 Senate Democrats need to come home and do their jobs, just like the Assembly Democrats did.''
While Republicans have a majority in the Senate, they are a vote short of a quorum for fiscal legislation. Democrats say they will not return until the governor agrees to negotiate on his proposals to strip unions of power, which include forbidding collective bargaining except for basic wages, and limiting raises to no more than the rate of inflation.
Democrats have already indicated that they would accept provisions that would cut the take-home pay of state employees by diverting money to help finance pension and health care costs.
A spokeswoman for the Wisconsin Department of Administration said the increased contributions to pensions and health care would amount to about a 6 percent decrease in take-home pay for a state employee with a $50,000 income, the average for state workers. Workers would pay more than 12 percent of their health care premiums, up from 6 percent, while 5.8 percent of their pay would be diverted to finance pensions, up from less than 1 percent for typical workers.
A fight over similar legislation in Indiana was stalemated as well, after 37 of 40 Democratic House members walked out, preventing a quorum. B. Patrick Bauer, the House minority leader, said from Urbana, Ill., that Democratic lawmakers would be staying in Illinois through the weekend, and beyond.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in the Wisconsin Capitol shouted early Friday as the Assembly approved a measure to strip most state employees of collective bargaining rights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



664 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Who's Paid More? Experts Can Disagree

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The question of whether state workers are overpaid has been much studied over the years and remains contentious.
Detailed analyses have come down on either side, but many have originated from groups with obvious political leanings. 
The Economic Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization partly supported by labor unions, recently published a series of studies arguing that public employees in several states, including Wisconsin and New Jersey, are ''undercompensated'' when compared with similar private sector workers, even after taking into account the more valuable benefits earned by state and local workers.
Chris Edwards, the director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization, concluded that state and local workers are paid better than their private sector peers, particularly when benefits are included.
Meanwhile, the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed group that analyzes the budgets in New York State and New York City, found in a report focused on salaries alone that while managerial and technical positions are still better paid in the private sector in New York, ''most service and blue collar occupations have higher wages in the public sector.''
In the end, a great deal depends on the assumptions that researchers make while trying to do proper comparisons between private sector and public workers.
A recent study, for example, by Keith A. Bender and John S. Heywood, economics professors at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, for the Center for State and Local Government Excellence and the National Institute on Retirement Security, found that state workers earn 11 percent less than their private sector counterparts, even including benefits, after other factors like education and age are accounted for.
But the economists also controlled for unionization, meaning they used statistical methods to remove it as a factor in their comparisons. That significantly affected their findings, as noted in a critique by Andrew Biggs of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
In the academic literature, some researchers focusing on salaries have found a small premium for state and local workers. But others, especially in more recent studies, have turned up wage penalties for them when education, experience and other factors are considered.
Gregory B. Lewis, a professor of public management and policy at Georgia State University, examined in a 2009 paper wage differentials with the private sector for state and local workers across the country.
His study, which did not include benefits, found tremendous variations among states. But in the vast majority of places, his study found, state and local workers' wages trailed that of the private sector once other factors like education, work experience, race and gender were held constant.
Similarly, George J. Borjas, a professor of economics and social policy at Harvard, concluded in a 2002 study that state workers suffered a ''significant wage disadvantage'' compared with the private sector after adjusting for a variety of factors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); LITERATURE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (58%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



665 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: 3 to 2 for Health Care Reform

 BODY:
Enormous attention has been focused on rulings by two federal district judges who found the new health care reform law unconstitutional. Less attention has been paid to rulings by three judges who upheld the law's constitutionality. 
The latest ruling, by Judge Gladys Kessler of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, provides a reasoned analysis of why appellate courts and ultimately the Supreme Court ought to uphold the law.
The crucial issue is whether a requirement that almost everyone obtain health insurance in 2014 or pay a penalty can be imposed by Congress under the powers granted to it by the Constitution, especially the power to regulate interstate commerce.
The two judges who found the law unconstitutional concluded that Congress cannot regulate ''inactivity'' -- the failure to purchase health insurance -- as if it were an ''economic activity'' that affects interstate commerce. But Judge Kessler rightly noted that when people without insurance become sick and seek care, the costs are usually shifted to other participants in the health markets, to federal and state governments, and to taxpayers.
She called it ''pure semantics'' to argue that people who choose to forgo health insurance are not ''acting,'' especially given the economic impact on others. ''Making a choice is an affirmative action, whether one decides to do something or not do something,'' she added.
However, in a blow to supporters of the reform law, Judge Kessler sided with all of the judges who have considered the issue and ruled that Congress could not rely on its power to raise taxes for the general welfare to justify requiring people to buy insurance or pay a penalty. She argued from the bill's legislative history that Congress did not intend for the penalty to operate as a tax.
Fierce politics and ideology have driven the debate over health care reform in Washington. And it is unfortunately playing out that way in the courts as well. The two judges who have ruled against reform were both appointed by Republican presidents. The three who have ruled in favor were appointed by President Bill Clinton. Despite that, we firmly believe that the law and the Constitution are clearly on the side of reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



666 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: A State Worker's Worth

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The janitors who buff floors and empty wastebaskets for the State of California earn a median wage of a little over $31,000 a year, which is 45 percent more than janitors in the private sector earn there. Georgia's janitors, by contrast, earn less than $21,000, about 6 percent below their private sector counterparts.
And in Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker's face-off with unions has thrust public sector compensation into the national spotlight, the state pays janitors a median wage of nearly $27,000, about the same as they would make in the private sector.
The wide range in this single job category shows how hard it can be to answer one of the basic questions at the heart of the budget skirmishes that are now spreading across the country: Are state workers overpaid? 
An analysis of recently released census data compiled for The New York Times by demographers at Queens College of the City University of New York yields a complicated picture, one that highlights the variation in pay from state to state and occupation to occupation, and one that does not fit neatly into a one-size-fits-all approach to cost cutting.
The clearest pattern to emerge is an educational divide: workers without college degrees tend to do better on state payrolls, while workers with college degrees tend to do worse. That divide has grown more pronounced in recent decades. Since 1990, the median wage of state workers without college degrees has come to surpass that of workers in the private sector. During the same period, though, college-educated state workers have seen their median pay lag further behind their peers in the private sector.
The census data analyzed by The Times do not include information on pensions and other benefits, which is crucial for a fuller comparison because public sector workers typically receive more in benefits than workers in the private sector do. California's corrections officers, for instance, can retire at 50 with pensions worth 90 percent of their salaries, an option open to very few private sector workers. New Jersey pays 92 percent of the cost of health care for its workers, much more than private companies typically pay. Studies have regularly found that state and local governments offer more valuable retirement and health benefits than the private sector. And many state workers enjoy harder-to-calculate nonmonetary benefits like greater job security and shorter work hours.
Still, an examination of wages alone is useful in informing the debate. For one thing, public sector workers have long contended that their enviable benefits make up for paltry pay rates.
The Times analyzed data on workers on the payrolls of state governments -- not localities, which are the bigger employers of firefighters, police officers, teachers and some others -- from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, which is conducted among more than three million households. The large survey allows for a more detailed understanding of differences among states. Previous analyses have mostly used the Current Population Survey, a monthly poll of 65,000 households. But the relatively limited sample makes state-by-state comparisons more difficult.
The Times's analysis found that over all, median wages for state workers exceeded that of private sector workers in all but three states -- Indiana, Missouri and New Hampshire. Those numbers, however, can be deceptive. State workers tend to be more highly educated than those in the private sector: More than half of state workers have college degrees, compared with just over one-quarter of those in the private sector. Researchers have also said that states tend to employ few high school dropouts.
''Because the public sector is much more likely to be highly educated, we would fully expect them to earn more on average because of that, just like we would expect somebody with a master's degree to earn more than somebody with a high school education,'' said Keith A. Bender, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, who has studied compensation in the public and private sectors.
When workers are divided into two groups -- those with bachelor's degrees and higher and those without -- a very different pattern emerges. State workers with college degrees earn less, often substantially less, than private sector workers with the same education in all but three states -- Montana, Nevada and Wyoming.
Less educated workers on state payrolls, however, tend to do better than their counterparts in the private sector. The median wages of state workers without bachelor's degrees are higher than those in the private sector in 30 states. California, New York, Connecticut and Nevada lead the way, each paying workers without degrees at least 25 percent more than the private sector pays those workers.
Certain states, however, are clearly more generous than others, at least relative to the private sector. California, Iowa, Nevada, New York and Rhode Island are at the upper end of the spectrum for both college-educated workers and those without college degrees.
Meanwhile, others states, like Kansas, Missouri, New Hampshire, Tennessee and Texas, are much more frugal with both groups.
The disparity can be attributed to a number of factors: the power of unions in different states, the strength of the private sector, local political traditions, education levels.
In Wisconsin, for instance, where Governor Walker, a Republican, is trying to sharply curtail collective-bargaining rights and to limit yearly raises for state workers to no more than the Consumer Price Index, the median wage for state workers exceeds that of the private sector by 22 percent. But more than 60 percent of state workers are college educated.
In other places where the median wage for state workers is higher than that of the private sector, there is a relatively undereducated private sector work force. In Alabama, where the median wage for state workers is 23 percent higher than that of private sector workers, fewer than 20 percent of employees in the private sector have college degrees.
The education split complicates choices for policymakers. An across-the-board pay cut for state workers in a place like California, which is confronting a $26.6 billion budget hole, for example, would help bring workers without college degrees, whose median wages exceed the private sector's by 35 percent, more in line with the private sector. It would impose, however, a steeper wage penalty on state workers with college degrees, whose median wage is 12 percent below the private sector's.
Unionization levels are another critical factor. In some of the more generous states relative to the private sector, like California, New York and Rhode Island, public employees are among the most heavily unionized in the country.
The opposing trends in public-private pay among college- and non-college-educated workers have generally widened over the last two decades. This is seen in the most recent data available, from 2006 through 2008, before many states cut pay through furloughs and other measures. For that period, the median wage of all state workers without college degrees, working 35 or more hours a week and at least 40 weeks a year, exceeded that of private sector workers by 6 percent. For those with college degrees, the median wage for state workers was 20 percent less than their private-sector counterparts.
In 1990, according to census data, the median wage for private-sector workers without college degrees exceeded that of state workers by 2 percent, in contrast with today. Among those with college degrees, the median wage for state workers was 14 percent less, leaving them even further behind the private sector.
At the local level, the phenomenon is similar: the median wage for college-educated workers trails that of their private-sector counterparts by about 20 percent, while local workers without college degrees earn 10 percent more than their private-sector peers.
Adding benefits into the analysis is not easy to do. Many college-educated state and local workers are teachers and professors, who have several months off each year. Some public-sector workers can retire after 20, 25 or 30 years of work and begin drawing pension checks long before they reach what most people consider retirement age. In the private sector, meanwhile, most companies have phased out their traditional defined-benefit pensions altogether. Nevertheless, some of the more generous states when it comes to what they pay their employees -- notably, New York and California -- also stand out for having among the most generous pension plans, according to data put together by Sylvester J. Schieber, a former chairman of the Social Security Advisory Board and now an independent consultant on retirement benefits.
Using financial statements, Mr. Schieber calculated an average wage for workers covered by state pension plans and then the percentage of that wage that would be replaced by the average annual pension benefit in the state.
Based on those figures, New Hampshire, Tennessee and Kansas, whose wages for state workers relative to the private sector are at the lower end of the scale, also have among the least generous pension benefits for state workers.
Other states are harder to assess. Georgia, for instance, is one of the more frugal states when it comes to pay but has some of the most generous pension benefits; Iowa is the opposite.
Drilling down to specific occupations yields some glimpses of just how large the differences among states really are.
Secretaries without bachelor's degrees on the Iowa payroll have a median wage of about $35,000, 19 percent more than the median wage in the private sector. In contrast, in Indiana, secretaries with the same level of education working for the state have a median wage of $25,000, which is actually 16 percent less than the private sector.
Arizona pays professors at its state colleges and universities a median salary of about $61,000, 40 percent more than professors at private nonprofit colleges in the state earn. Iowa, on the other hand, pays its professors a median of about $43,000, which is 22 percent less than their peers at nonprofit institutions.
Of course, there are limits to comparisons between public and private pay scales. Some well-paying public sector jobs, like police officers, simply have no private sector equivalent. Some low-paying private sector jobs, like migrant farm workers, have no public sector equivalent.
But even among jobs that are relatively unique to the public sector, like corrections officers, there is a wide range of pay. After adjusting for cost-of-living differences using an experimental state-by-state price index produced by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the data show that corrections officers in California, Michigan and Oregon are among the highest paid in the country, with median wages of at least 60 percent more than those at the bottom end, in places like Virginia, Tennessee and Louisiana.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: The Education Divide: Differences in pay between state workers and private sector workers vary considerably across the nation. Very different patterns emerge between those who have college degrees and those who do not. The maps below show the pay differences between state and private workers, but the figures do not include benefits, which can greatly affect the overall compensation a worker receives. (Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey, 2006-2008
 Queens College, Department of Sociology) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); CENSUS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011



667 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GENEVA MOTOR SHOW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: So Many Cars, So Little Time

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
GENEVA
FOR the leading international auto shows, of which there are about half a dozen a year, bragging rights go to those with the most ''world premieres'' or the most introductions of new models specific to certain markets. On these counts, it would seem that the 81st Geneva International Motor Show, where two days of press previews begin Tuesday, has trumped its competition.
While the North American auto shows of recent months -- in Los Angeles, Detroit and Chicago -- have struggled to line up two to three dozen significant new models, the organizers of the annual Geneva show promise ''nearly 170 world and European premieres.'' More than 40 of those will feature some sort of green technology. 
The show opens to the public on Thursday and runs through March 13 at the Palexpo convention center adjacent to Geneva's international airport. If the projections are correct, the number of premieres, about 170, would be something of a record -- certainly for this show, and probably for any recent auto salon. (The number is roughly twice the number of introductions here a year ago.)
Through the global economic gloom of recent years, many companies delayed or canceled new models. But the pipeline -- it can take three to five years, and more, to design, engineer and produce a new car -- that had begun to slow to a trickle in 2008 is now producing a torrent of new offerings.
Not only are individual models being rushed into production, entire lineups are being replaced.
The Fiat Group is leveraging its growing stake in Chrysler by turning the entire Chrysler lineup -- 300 and 200 sedans, 200 convertible and Grand Voyager minivan -- into Lancia models that will be sold in Europe. The Dodge Journey wagon will be reborn in Europe as the Fiat Freemont. (For now, Jeep is still Jeep.)
BMW is introducing BMW i, a subbrand consisting of electric-power vehicles, and showing its Vision ConnectedDrive, a roadster that showcases how driver-assistance systems and infotainment features can be networked through the Internet.
The Volkswagen Group is set to unveil what it describes as ''an array of concepts'' that will demonstrate how it intends to fulfill its bold goal of overtaking Toyota as the world's largest automaker. The concept cars were produced with considerable involvement by Italdesign Giugiaro, the Italian styling studio that VW acquired last year.
Toyota, Honda and Nissan will show electric-car concepts, the most intriguing of which may be the Nissan Esflow, suggesting a future rear-drive electric sports car.
Among American automakers, small is in -- at least overseas. Ford's B-Max, a small five-seat van, will make its debut. Chevrolet will show a hatchback version of its Cruze compact car.
Mini is going even smaller with its Rocketman concept, nearly a foot shorter than the smallest current Mini Cooper -- closer to the tiny original Mini of 1959.
Another high-character subcompact in Geneva will be the next-generation Kia Rio.
Still, high-horsepower models will not be ignored. Audi is showing a powerful RS3 Sportback meant to compete with BMW's 1 Series. Mercedes-Benz is offering a sleek new C-Class coupe and an SLK roadster.
Lamborghini is taking the wraps off a new flagship, the Aventador, which will replace the Murcielago.
Two high-performance mainstays, Porsche and Ferrari, will show models that once would have seemed unthinkable. Porsche has developed a hybrid version of its Panamera sedan, and the FF prototype is the first Ferrari with all-wheel drive. A production version could have electric motors driving its front wheels and a hybrid-style regenerative braking system.
Even Rolls-Royce will take a dip in the green pool with an electrically driven prototype, the 102EX, based on the Phantom.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHOWTIME: From top, Mini Rocketman, BMW Vision ConnectedDrive and Kia Rio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); SPORTS CARS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); MINIVANS (77%); SEDANS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (65%); AIRPORTS (53%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (85%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%); VOW3 (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



668 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Larger-Than-Life Dallas Is Barely Growing

BYLINE: By MATT STILES and EMILY RAMSHAW; mstiles@texastribune.org; eramshaw@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Big D may need a new nickname.
Despite a surging population in Texas and double-digit growth rates in Austin, Fort Worth and San Antonio, the city of Dallas grew by a paltry 1 percent in the last decade, according to the new census figures -- a rate lower than any of the 20 largest cities in Texas. Dallas County did not fare much better: its 6.7 percent growth rate was dwarfed by the four other most populous Texas counties, which each saw more than 20 percent growth.
City and county officials in Dallas blame the topography for the low growth: the third-largest city in Texas is simply built out. With little empty land ripe for new development, they say, the bulk of the growth must naturally be outside the county line -- at least until their efforts to lure business professionals and retiring suburbanites into a newly remodeled, newly trendy downtown fully pay off.
''We may not have the same population opportunities, but we're focusing on the economic side of that,'' said Tom Leppert, the exiting mayor of Dallas. ''We're bringing a lot of business in, seeing a real resurgence in the downtown area. We've positioned ourselves very well for the future.'' 
But critics suggest that Dallas's larger-than-life image may be shrinking for another reason. They say that officials' lack of investment in public schools, streets, parks and pools -- the real-world priorities outside the city's highbrow Arts District, with its cultural monuments designed by the hottest ''starchitects'' (Norman Foster, Rem Koolhaas, I. M. Pei, Renzo Piano) and soon-to-be sky-high Santiago Calatrava ''signature'' bridges -- is sending white families and middle-class minorities moving to the suburbs. The result, they say, is an increasingly Hispanic, less educated and poor inner city.
''That means property values are likely to decline, and with property values, tax revenues,'' said Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University. ''At the end of the day, when a family has to make a choice between living in Dallas, close to its cultural amenities, or having better infrastructure, schools, libraries and pools in the suburbs, they're not going to choose Dallas.''
The city's low growth is no reflection on Texas. The state's overall population increased by about 20 percent in the last decade, more than twice the national level. All of Texas' urban counties, save Dallas County, matched or exceeded the state's growth rate. Meanwhile, the city of Dallas gained just 9,000 residents since 2000 -- compared with Fort Worth's 200,000 increase and San Antonio's 182,000 boost.
Steve H. Murdock, a professor at Rice University and a former United States Census Bureau director, said it is routine for large central-city counties to experience declines or modest growth at the expense of more suburban areas. For years, he said, Dallas and Houston seemed to buck the trend. That dynamic could be changing now, with Dallas's scant population increase and Houston's modest 7.5 percent growth. ''When you look at Dallas County, it stands out in terms of slow growth,'' Mr. Murdock said.
And Dallas is in a position to fare worse than Houston in terms of population, Mr. Murdock said, because the city is older and geographically smaller, and has fewer places to build the sprawling residential developments that can be possible in the suburbs.
Mike Moncrief, the mayor of Fort Worth, said one of the big reasons for his city's explosive growth is that development is moving from east to west. While Dallas County can ''only continue to build density,'' he said, its neighbors, including Tarrant County, have room to grow.
Indeed, neighboring Collin and Denton counties grew by 59 percent and 53 percent, respectively; nearby Rockwall County grew by more than 80 percent and is home to Fate, the biggest boomtown in Texas' 2010 census count (it grew 1,100 percent). Statewide, four dozen cities and towns more than doubled their populations, and more than half were in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
''It's phenomenal,'' said Mr. Murdock, making reference to one such city, McKinney. ''You find growth rates there that make you stand in awe.''
But those numbers also back up the assertion that white suburban migration is contributing to Dallas's population stagnation -- and could potentially have a negative effect on the region's tax base. Dallas County's white population fell by about 2 percent, or 27,000 residents, in the last decade. The four other most populous counties in Texas saw double-digit increases in the number of white residents.
And while the white population in the city of Dallas increased by less than 1 percent, its Hispanic population surged by 20 percent, and its black population declined -- the result of black middle-class families' migration to the region's suburbs.
That explains why the percentage of Hispanics in the overall city population increased, to 42 percent in 2010 from 35 percent in 2000. The fear, Mr. Jillson said, is that ''because education levels for Hispanics and incomes earned for Hispanics are lower than Anglos', it's going to mean an overall decline in county prosperity.''
Elba Garcia, a Dallas County commissioner, said that any time a county has a low level of growth, it is a challenge for the tax base, regardless of the ethnic breakdown of the population. She said the spike in the region's Hispanic population would most likely translate into more Hispanic representation in the state's redistricting process.
But the population decrease in the city also means that urban residents could lose some sway in the Texas House. Several incumbent members of the chamber represent districts that did not keep pace with the population of neighboring suburban districts, and those districts may be consolidated.
''The fact that we're seeing so much growth through the area speaks well for the region,'' Dr. Garcia said. ''Does it present some challenges? Obviously. But I believe it eventually equalizes.''
So does Mr. Leppert -- who on Friday resigned his office four months early to run for the United States Senate in 2012. He also thinks the city's emphasis on keeping taxes low, drastically reducing the crime rate and attracting major employers downtown will reap major rewards -- and keep the Big D nickname meaningful.
Mr. Jillson is not so sure. ''Texans are used to living on dramatic claims and hype that mask the underlying reality,'' he said. ''But it's getting to be pretty thin gruel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oak Cliff residents at Kidd Springs Park. The population of Dallas grew by just 1 percent over the last decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); CENSUS (73%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); FAMILY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



669 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: But Who Will Grade the Grader?

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
IN this episode of the Haggler, a sobering look at the Better Business Bureau.
Q. When I ordered my new Dell with its Windows 7 operating system, the upgrade left my Canon scanner without a functioning driver -- the software that lets a computer talk to an external device. After an Internet search, I found ''PC Drivers Headquarters, Your Trusted Driver Update Authority.'' There, in type big enough for even these aging eyes to read, was the price: $29.95.
I went for it. After clicking and downloading, the price was suddenly $39.95. It seems I was automatically enrolled in a one-year extension for a program I expected to use once, for a matter of minutes.
I clicked ''refund'' and explained in an e-mail to PC Drivers Headquarters that its business policy had angered me. In response, I got one of those there's-really-nobody-here form letters telling me that all I had to do was to go through a dozen steps to prove that the system was faulty and I would get a refund. 
Now, I know, Mr. Haggler, that you think I should have first checked out the company with the Better Business Bureau. But had I done so, I would have been informed that the bureau's rating for the business is an A-plus. It is only in the tiny type that follows that you see the rating is based on the superb way the company has handled all of the 312 complaints -- yes, 312 -- that the bureau has received about it over the last 36 months.
If you can get that money back from the company, great. But if you can explain how a company with more than 300 complaints could wind up with an A-plus from the Better Business Bureau, you'd provide a real public service.
Irv Zuckerman
Rye, N.Y.
A. Let's deal with the refund first. Michael Hurd, the owner of PC Drivers Headquarters, in Austin, Tex., returned Mr. Zuckerman's $39.95 shortly after the Haggler got in touch. Mr. Hurd said that if Mr. Zuckerman had responded to that automatically generated e-mail he would ultimately have been given his money back, ''no questions asked.''
But Mr. Zuckerman is far from the only consumer to conclude that he would never see his $39.95 again. Nearly 100 of the more than 300 complaints against the company are about ''refund or exchange issues,'' as it says on the bureau's report about the business.
So what explains that A-plus?
A bit of background: The Better Business Bureau will write reports and grade any business, but a company can also become an ''accredited member'' by paying an annual fee. What do members get for that money? Use of the bureau's seal of approval in advertising, help with designing marketing materials and so on.
But critics of the bureau have also contended that, in recent years, membership buys a business what could politely be called the benefit of the doubt.
PC Drivers Headquarters is a Better Business Bureau member, which costs it $550 a year.
Now back to that A-plus. Erin Dufner, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said that 312 complaints, in themselves, are not too many, because the company is categorized as a ''giant'' business, based on number of employees (20), revenue (more than $1 million annually) and number of customers (more than a million).
How does the bureau know the company is a ''giant''? ''It's based on information that the company has verified,'' Ms. Dufner says. ''We trust it.''
But the biggest reason for that A-plus, she says, is the way PC Drivers Headquarters has handled all those complaints. Here, if the bureau is to be believed, the company's performance is perfect.
How did the company satisfy each and every one of its 312 unhappy customers? Well, it is not clear that it did. More than a dozen of the complaints were ''administratively resolved,'' the Better Business Bureau's report says, which means the bureau ''determined that despite the company's reasonable effort to address complaint issues, the consumer remains dissatisfied.''
Defining a ''reasonable'' effort is up to the bureau.
The Haggler asked the bureau if he could speak to one of those unhappy customers whose cases were ''administratively closed.'' So meet D. E. Baines, a retired member of the Air Force who lives in Bristol, Tenn., and who last year spent $39.95 on Driver Detective, a downloadable program marketed by PC Drivers Headquarters.
What was wrong with the product? ''Other than the fact that it didn't work, nothing,'' he joked.
What ''reasonable effort'' did the company make to resolve his refund request? ''They said, 'We're not going to give you a refund.' And that was it.''
Mr. Baines's appeal to the Better Business Bureau didn't help. The company again refused to issue a refund, and, last December, the bureau sent him an e-mail saying that ''we regret that we are unable to continue to assist you in the resolution of your complaint. The active file on this case has been closed and will remain in BBB files for three years.''
Wow. If this belongs in the win column for PC Drivers Headquarters, you've got to wonder: what would constitute a loss?
Ms. Dufner contends that Mr. Baines was offered, and declined, the option of mediation. The e-mail says nothing on the subject. It ''was communicated by phone,'' Ms. Dufner wrote on Thursday. Mr. Baines says he has no memory of any conversation on mediation.
In recent years, Better Business Bureau gadflys and reports in The Los Angeles Times and on ''20/20'' have suggested that the organization has at times devolved into a kind of protection racket for corporate reputations -- hand over the annual fee, and say hello to a stellar grade.
That would be a depressing and stark departure from the original incarnation of the bureau. Born in the Progressive Era, it spent decades suing fraudulent companies and pushing for stricter consumer laws.
But PC Drivers Headquarters appears to be just one of many examples of grade inflation.
Last year, ''20/20'' filmed two small-business owners who demonstrated, on camera, that they could raise their grades from a C and a C-minus, respectively, to two sparkling A-pluses, just by calling up the bureau's Southern California chapter and becoming paying members.
The spokesman for the Council of Better Business Bureaus later told ''20/20,'' ''That is in violation of our sales policy.''
If you want an unvarnished take on PC Drivers Headquarters, check out reviews on PC World and TechPin, where you'll find dozens of livid customers. ''Company does not honor refund policy,'' one wrote a few days ago. ''Stay away!''
The average user rating at PC World was one star out of five. Which translates to an F.
Ms. Dufner denies that the company got preferential treatment and states that the Better Business Bureau does not offer pay-for-play favors to its member companies.
That's the Better Business Bureau's story. What is yours? The Haggler formally invites business owners to write and share any experience that might shed light on this subject.
Bring it, people.
E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com Keep it brief and family-friendly, and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ACCREDITATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



670 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING ON PARK AVENUE SOUTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Southern Pride, of a Kind

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
WHEN Jennifer Aziz told her father she was thinking of buying an apartment on East 29th Street near Park Avenue South, he was worried. As Ms. Aziz recalls it, his concern went beyond the standard fatherly protectiveness. As a rug dealer, he had owned a store decades ago in the commercial district south of Midtown Manhattan, which he remembered as it had been then: drably commercial, dead at night and a little seedy.
Fortunately for Aziz family harmony, her father was reassured when he came for a look around.
The area is livelier than ever, and in recent years Park Avenue South in particular -- the stretch between East 17th and East 32nd Streets -- has experienced a wave of residential construction and, hence, lots of new foot traffic. 
Long a poor relation of the ''real'' Park Avenue to the north, and later an emerging bargain district, the area has come into its own as a distinct place to live and socialize.
With that emergence have come higher housing prices. Ms. Aziz, 32, who is a nursery school teacher, closed on her one-bedroom apartment this month. Although she declined to say how much she paid, data compiled by StreetEasy.com indicate that similar units in the building, at 39 East 29th Street, have sold recently for $1,400 to $1,500 a square foot, or more than $1.1 million. Farther downtown, agents say, units in recent condominium developments like 240 and 260 Park Avenue South are closer to $1,700 per square foot and up.
The street has always had a certain appeal, even in worse times: ''Locationwise,'' Ms. Aziz said, ''it's perfect to get anywhere. You're not far from any neighborhood. Never a cab ride that's more than $10.''
But now there is less reason to leave. The Gansevoort Park Avenue hotel, an offshoot of the meatpacking district hot spot, opened across East 29th Street from Ms. Aziz's building in November, and a string of prosaic but essential neighborhood services have fallen into place. Among them, said Jennifer Brown, executive director of the Flatiron 23rd Street Partnership, are child-care facilities like Appleseeds and the New York Kids' Club, and several gyms.
Ms. Brown says her group, a business improvement district oriented toward commercial development, applauds the avenue's growing residential character. The changes, she said, have helped make the avenue into a functioning live/work neighborhood, allowing residents to walk to jobs at companies like New York Life Insurance, Credit Suisse and Grey advertising.
''We've really found that more residents in the neighborhood have only helped us in terms of what we're trying to do,'' she said, adding that more people meant more customers for an increasingly diverse array of businesses.
Some of those are trendy restaurants and bars that, like the Ace Hotel on East 29th Street a few blocks to the west, are experiencing a bit of a moment.
''You're really drawing a very young, hip crowd,'' said Richard Steinberg, an executive managing director of the Warburg Realty Partnership.
''The same crowd that would normally go down to the meatpacking district or TriBeCa, is now staying in Midtown Manhattan because it's so much more convenient.''
Beyond trendiness, the area's housing stock, much of it former office or commercial space, also has much to offer. Kimberly Lyn Pressman, a vice president of the Corcoran Group, said Park Avenue South drew people seeking a certain kind of dwelling.
''They want high ceilings, they want voluminous rooms, they want oversized windows,'' Ms. Pressman said, ''and because of the history of the neighborhood and when these buildings were built, the apartments have a lot of these factors.''
Ms. Aziz, who will be living in a new unit, said her personal history with the avenue -- stemming in part from her father's old store -- made it feel like home. If anything, she said, she might get frustrated as the warm weather draws bigger crowds to the Gansevoort's rooftop bar.
But she added: ''I actually don't mind. I prefer a lively neighborhood to a quiet, dark street.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The liveliest stretch of the avenue -- and the best-established residentially -- is below East 23rd Street. Larger buildings include the 259-unit 280 Park Avenue South, which was built in the 1980s, and 260 Park Avenue South, the former United Federation of Teachers headquarters, which opened as condominiums in 2006 with 86 apartments.
Frances Katzen, a managing director of Prudential Douglas Elliman, described the conversion of the teachers' building as a milestone in establishing the avenue as a residential area, and said sales there had continued even through the economic slowdown.
''This is now a destination location,'' she said. ''It's not a sort of fringe neighborhood trying to emerge. It's arrived. It has its own cachet.''
The blocks above East 23rd, agents said, have generally lagged behind in value, linked in many minds with unromantic Midtown. Yet that association is loose. ''You ask 10 different people and you'll get 10 different answers about where Midtown starts,'' said Ms. Pressman, the Corcoran broker.
In any case, those blocks in the upper 20s have lately gained in allure, thanks in part to new restaurants and hotels. Paul Zweben, a senior vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said the biggest changes had happened a couple of blocks to the west, where the Ace Hotel, with its Stumptown coffee shop and restaurants by the chef April Bloomfield, opened in 2009.
''I think they're completely changing that entire section of Broadway over, and it's basically rolling onto Park Avenue,'' Mr. Zweben said, adding that, as in TriBeCa in the 1990s, ''I've seen neighborhoods change because of food.''
He predicts that the upper blocks of Park Avenue South will continue their metamorphosis as more eating and drinking establishments come to surround the Gansevoort, which has the makings of a neighborhood hub. Indeed, Mr. Zweben said, the hotel seems to have developed into a scene already. Asked what types of hanging out, exactly, go on there, he replied, ''I'm not cool enough, so I don't know.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Ms. Pressman says East 23rd Street is a still a line of demarcation when it comes to price.
Between 19th and 20th Streets, the 54-unit 240 Park Avenue South, designed by Gwathmey Siegel and Associates Architects, is one of the area's more desirable buildings, she said. Prices there were around $1,700 a square foot when the building opened, and have since settled around $1,600 a square foot. For units of all kinds on the avenue, she said, average prices below 23rd Street exceed $1,100 a square foot. By contrast, averages per square foot above 23rd Street are under $800. There are, of course, exceptions and outliers on both sides, Ms. Pressman said. One reason for the disparity, she added, is that most of Park Avenue South's recent luxury condo developments have been built toward the avenue's southern end.
Ms. Katzen says prices on the lower part of the avenue remain high in part because of scant inventory in the avenue's more popular blocks. ''There's a lack of really good-quality product right now,'' she said, ''so there seems to be a lot of pent-up aggression.''
By way of example, she cited a unit she had been marketing as a rental in 260 Park Avenue South, the Teachers' Federation building, a two-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath unit advertised for $8,700 a month. ''We didn't even have time to rent it,'' she said, ''because we sold it within a week.'' The asking price had been $2.25 million, and the unit sold for $2.15 million, she said.
Rentals, then, can be hard to find, but according to StreetEasy, one-bedroom units in the avenue's condo buildings tend to rent for $4,000 and up. Two-bedroom units typically start at $6,500. In both cases, depending on the building, prices can be much higher.
WHAT TO DO
The avenue passes within a block of Madison Square Park, to the west, and the private Gramercy Park, to the east. To the south is Union Square, where the Greenmarket now operates all day on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. There are dozens of restaurants on the avenue and on the surrounding blocks; two established favorites are the Gramercy Tavern, on East 20th Street, and BLT Prime, on East 22nd.
THE COMMUTE
The 6 train makes local stops under the avenue at 23rd and 28th, as well as just north of Park Avenue South's boundaries at 33rd Street. To the south, the N, Q, R and L are also accessible from Union Square.
THE SCHOOLS
Primary students south of 25th Street attend Public School 40, on East 19th Street. The school got an A on its most recent city progress report; 83.9 percent were proficient in English, 86.4 percent in math. North of 25th, students are zoned for P.S. 116 on 33rd Street. That school got a B on its progress report; 75.6 percent were proficient in English, 86.6 percent in math.
The nearest middle school is Junior High School 104, on East 21st Street. It scored a B on its progress report, with 58.7 percent proficient in English and 68.5 percent in math.
Baruch College Campus High School, just west of the avenue on East 25th Street, has a little over 400 students. In 2010, SAT averages were 523 in reading, 583 in math and 528 in writing, versus 439, 462 and 434 citywide.
THE HISTORY
The New York and Harlem Railroad began running under the avenue in the 1830s, when the line beginning at Prince Street was extended northward. Though the northern blocks of Park Avenue first got their name in 1860, Park Avenue South was still known as Fourth Avenue until 1959, when the city renamed it.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The ''Living In'' article last Sunday, about Park Avenue South, referred incorrectly to subway service at 33rd Street and Park. While the No. 6 stops there, the Nos. 4 and 5 express trains do not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LIVED IN: The bustle is evident in this view north from the median at 17th Street and Park Avenue South. The area has come into its own as a place to live and socialize -- and liveliness now remains in the atmosphere well into the evening hours. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (72%); CHILD CARE (66%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (51%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011



671 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Mosh Pit Diplomacy

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE GIRY. 
Stephanie Giry is the editor at large at Foreign Affairs.

 BODY:
HOW TO RUN THE WORLD
Charting a Course to the Next Renaissance
By Parag Khanna
256 pp. Random House. $26.
The would-be foreign policy prodigy Parag Khanna made a splash with his first book, ''The Second World,'' in 2008, by announcing with great fanfare -- including a lengthy adaptation in The New York Times Magazine -- what everyone already knew: that the international order was changing. The book was Khanna's version of the fall of the West and the rise of the rest. Having described this grave new world, Khanna now wants to tell us how to run it. The result is another easy, breezy book that dispenses platitudes as though they were original insights and in the process fails to examine their actual significance. 
For Khanna, a senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, the world is now entering a new Middle Ages. He invokes this grand parallel in ''How to Run the World'' in order to make a rather familiar point, which is that power continues to decentralize. The concept of a ''new medievalism'' isn't novel; nor, in this case, is it very coherent. At times, Khanna uses it to mean that chaos is in the making. He sees brewing a ''no-holds-barred contest for power and legitimacy between regimes, companies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), religious groups and superempowered individuals all pursuing their own interests,'' and says it will result in ''a fractured, fragmented, ungovernable, multipolar or nonpolar world.'' This ''mosh pit'' is near. ''We are never more than a hair's length away from the symptoms of medievalism: economic chaos, social unrest, depraved morals, wild expenditures, debauchery and religious hysteria all lie just under the surface of our many veneers of sophistication.'' But Khanna also views this muddle as ''a good thing,'' an opportunity to get ''all hands on deck to manage challenges that no government or organization can tackle alone.''
His own answer to the new medievalism is a ''new colonialism.'' This may be a misnomer for what apparently amounts to a kind of enlightened, munificent interventionism, mostly conducted by ''megadiplomats,'' as he calls them -- the George Soroses, Bill Gateses and other superpowerful men who combine an entrepreneurial spirit with a commitment to public service. Megadiplomacy will turn that no-holds-barred self-interested contest for power into ''a jazzy dance among coalitions of ministries, companies, churches, foundations, universities, activists and other willful, enterprising individuals who cooperate to achieve specific goals.'' It will be ''the triumph of mini-lateral action over multilateral stasis.'' And the results will be beautiful: first, ''the next Renaissance,'' or ''universal liberation through exponentially expanding and voluntary interconnections,'' and then, Khanna hopes, ''an autopoietic world: self-regulating and recreating.''
Khanna's fear-mongering echoes Robert D. Kaplan's alarmism in ''The Coming Anarchy,'' and his cutesy images and painful wordplay recall the worst of Thomas L. Friedman's columns. So much then for the comparison to the theories of Samuel Huntington and Francis Fukuyama that some have been promoting, and so much for the promise of what his publisher calls a ''single paradigm necessary to capture the emerging 21st-century world.'' Khanna's worldview isn't much of a paradigm.
When he wrote ''The Second World,'' he was thinking about states: which ones would soon matter more, which less, and when they would trade places. But ''How to Run the World'' seems to be about the beginning of the end of the state, about the inescapable erosion of state power relative to that of supranational, subnational and private actors. For example, ''we have more islands of governance than we have effective governments -- and just as in the Middle Ages, these islands are not states but cities.''
Has the world changed that much since 2008? Even Khanna acknowledges that the intervening period's big event, the global economic crisis, has brought about a resurgence of state control, and perhaps for the better. Megadiplomats also have more recent ancestors than he admits: the early-20th century, for example, had its own crop of bankers, oil magnates and philanthropists who shaped world politics. And Khanna's own insistence that regional security institutions in the Middle East and South and Central Asia must be strengthened suggests the lasting relevance of at least some traditional notions of statehood.
Given this conceptual mushiness, it's no wonder that Khanna's answers to real problems tend to be vague or wishful. He calls for remapping the world and moving ''beyond the arbitrary postcolonial borders,'' those ''hand-me-down suits of international relations that never quite fit.'' More autonomy should be the order of the day, he argues, wherever there are ''stable and self-governing entities''; he sees such potential among Kurds, Kashmiris and the Pashtuns in Pakistan and Afghanistan -- and even Canadian Eskimos and the Jews of eastern Russia. To beat the resource curse, Khanna suggests that foreign oil companies threaten corrupt governments in Africa with production suspensions or stratagems to distribute oil that would bypass state coffers. So why hasn't this been done before?
On urgent security issues, he hews closer to well-circulated proposals or commonsensical ideas but also avoids major questions about implementation. In Afghanistan, provincial and local authorities, not the central government, should be propped up. Maybe, but how exactly? ''The only way to stop Iran and North Korea from deepening their nuclear programs will be to convince their regimes that they don't need them.'' If only.
Khanna hangs so many of his hopes for progress on the good works of the megadiplomats that his book can read like a roster of role models, an inspirational Who's Who: let us praise John Ruggie of Harvard University and Peter Eigen of Transparency International and Carne Ross of Independent Diplomat; the International Crisis Group and LeapFrog Investments. Bizarrely, it also devolves into a kind of self-help manual that calls for ''cosmopolitan, or cause-mopolitan'' participation.
Channeling Stephen R. Covey, Khanna identifies ''the seven habits of highly effective diplomats.'' And here are a couple of his injunctions, part morale-boosting, part shaming: ''We are the new global architecture''; ''If you can afford to buy this book, or have the technology to order it, you have no excuse not to contribute to the new megadiplomacy.''
Throughout, Khanna's tone, which is meant to be chummy while authoritative, tends toward the patronizing. I kept hoping for a moment somewhere in the book when he'd expose its title as ironic, facetious or self-deprecating -- something, anything, that would save it from itself.
The chutzpah that went into writing so sweepingly with such shameless assertiveness might deserve some respect, perhaps even awe. Except that this boldness is incompatible with what probably should be any aspiring pundit's main objective: to distinguish what in the modern world is obvious but important from what is obvious and trite. For Khanna to take on such a modest-seeming task, he would have had to satisfy himself with simply revealing the known, or even just repeating it, rather than claiming to discover the new.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTTO DETTMER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); RELIGION (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: How to Run the World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



672 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
THE MYTH OF THE RATIONAL MARKET: A History of Risk, Reward, and Delusion on Wall Street, by Justin Fox (Harper Business, $16.99.) Instead of emphasizing the errors and abuses of bankers in the 2008 financial crisis, Fox, a former business and economics columnist for Time magazine, zeroes in on the academics whose efficient-market theories enabled those abuses. 
THE RUSSIAN DREAMBOOK OF COLOR AND FLIGHT, by Gina Ochsner (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $14.95.) Ochsner's first novel, about a decaying five-story apartment building in the Russian city of Perm (and the resurrection of a resident who had thrown himself off the tenement's roof), links magic realism to the grim anomie of post-Soviet Russia.
COUNTRY DRIVING: A Chinese Road Trip, by Peter Hessler (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) Hessler, The New Yorker's Beijing correspondent from 2000 to 2007, got his Chinese driver's license in 2001 and set out on a 7,000-mile trip across northern China, following the Great Wall from the East China Sea to the Tibetan plateau. It's the first of three journeys in this book, which chronicles the effects of an expanding road network on individual lives and ''the largest migration in human history.''
DAY OUT OF DAYS: Stories, by Sam Shepard (Vintage, $15.) In Shepard's latest collection of stories (many of them no longer than a few paragraphs and some of them styled as dialogues or poems), the author's own red-eyed alter ego takes to the open road, compulsively logging the names and secrets of forsaken places in the American West.
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF AN EXECUTION, by David R. Dow (Twelve, $14.99.) Dow, a law professor in Texas, has represented more than 100 death row inmates over 20 years, convinced that what Justice Harry A. Blackmun called the American ''machinery of death'' is broken. His dark, raw memoir toggles between his capital cases and life with his family, Dow's lifeline back from the death chamber.
EIGHT WHITE NIGHTS, by Andre Aciman (Picador, $15.) Aciman's second novel unfolds over eight snowy nights in Manhattan. At a lavish Christmas Eve party, an unnamed, painfully self-aware narrator meets a beautiful young woman; over seven days, Aciman follows, from within the echo chamber of his narrator's mind, the yearnings and frustrations of modern courtship. Our reviewer, Jennifer Egan, described the novel as ''deeply Proustian,'' ''enveloping the reader in its wintry spell and imbuing present-day New York with a power of retrospect.''
JEALOUSY: The Other Life of Catherine M., by Catherine Millet. Translated by Helen Stevenson (Grove Press, $14.) Millet, the French critic and editor whose previous memoir, ''The Sexual Life of Catherine M.'' (2001), explored her adventurous promiscuity, turns her attention to the infidelities of her lover and the agony they caused her.
OCCUPIED CITY, by David Peace (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard, $15.) A real-life mass poisoning in Tokyo in 1948, possibly linked to notorious wartime medical experiments, is the basis for Peace's daring crime novel (his second in a planned trilogy about Tokyo).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); CAPITAL CRIMES (63%); CHRISTMAS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (70%); WEST USA (68%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); PACIFIC OCEAN (55%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TIBET (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



673 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo's Budget-Cut Salute

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY - School superintendents are used to having relatively thankless jobs. So after completing successful negotiations for a wage freeze with labor officials in his school district in central New York, Christopher R. Brown was content with a celebratory lunch with his father at a local hamburger establishment last Friday.
That seemed like the extent of the fanfare -- but Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo thought otherwise. In an unusual gesture, he has taken to publicly saluting school superintendents like Dr. Brown who he deems to have taken up the mantle of shared sacrifice. 
''These are the type of tough but smart decisions school districts across New York should be making,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement last Friday. He added that Dr. Brown's district, the West Genesee Central School District near Syracuse, ''clearly understands the economic pressures we are facing, and other school districts should follow this example.''
Monitoring local labor negotiations in the state's hundreds of school districts would seem extreme even for someone like Mr. Cuomo, who is known to have a micromanaging streak. But in the public-relations battle over the governor's proposed reduction in local school financing, Mr. Cuomo and his aides are using every possible opportunity to suggest to New Yorkers that the proposed cuts would not be as crippling as the governor's critics claim.
In West Genesee, a district of about 5,300 students, Dr. Brown recently whittled a $5.6 million budget gap down to about $900,000. Rather than resort to more job reductions to close that remaining gap, he managed to get administrators, teachers and others to agree to a one-year salary freeze.
He was not the only one to earn the governor's praise. Four days earlier, Mr. Cuomo sent out a similar statement in praise of the Bethlehem Central School District, near Albany, for achieving its own pay freeze.
There, more than two dozen principals and administrators, including the superintendent, Michael D. Tebbano, agreed to forgo pay increases next year as the district tries to close a $4 million budget gap.
The resulting savings will be relatively small - about $78,000 overall - but Dr. Tebbano and others thought it would send the right message. Mr. Cuomo evidently agreed.
''I've never seen any acknowledgment of that kind,'' Judith Kehoe, the district's chief business and financial officer, said of Mr. Cuomo's statement. ''But he's a new governor, and certainly he has a different style than the others.''
For several weeks now, Mr. Cuomo has been rolling out various arguments to try to convince voters that local school districts can withstand the cuts in state aid that he is proposing. First, he has tried to frame the proposed reduction as a share of school districts' total spending (2.9 percent) rather than its actual magnitude (7.3 percent compared to this year's state school-aid spending).
In addition, Mr. Cuomo and his aides have argued that school districts can reduce their administrative compensation, that they have reserves they can tap, and, most recently, that they can ''cut the fat'' by reducing non-classroom expenditures like food services, procurement and transportation.
Dr. Brown has received some unusual attention-because of the spotlight Mr. Cuomo cast on him. He appeared along with the head of his local teachers' union on CNN on Monday to talk about how they managed to find peace - as opposed to, say, public officials and union leaders in Wisconsin. ''Communicating openly and trusting each other,'' Dr. Brown said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
Still, Dr. Brown was not without complaints about Mr. Cuomo, or at least the budgetary math he has used in trying to argue for his school cuts.
He said he thought it was something of a cheap shot for Mr. Cuomo to be using school superintendents as political punching bags over their compensation, particularly as he asks them to work harder than ever in squeezing out budget savings. (Dr. Brown, for the record, makes $172,000, much less than some superintendents whose salaries Mr. Cuomo has taken to criticizing.)
But he said he was grateful for the governor's praise. He felt bad, he said, because when he was at lunch with his father, he repeatedly ignored a phone call on his cellphone from a number he did not recognize.
On the fourth call, he finally picked up -- and found an aide to Mr. Cuomo who wanted to offer his congratulations and tell him about the governor's statement.
''I said, 'Hey, look, I apologize,''' Dr. Brown said. It was, after all, a call that he hardly expected.
Our political reporters, and occasional guests, offer you a peek inside Albany and City Hall. Check back every Wednesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THANKS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has publicly complimented school superintendents who have achieved budget cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



674 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 CHEVROLET CRUZE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Pssst! Corolla, You Have a Stalker

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
I'VE long thought that General Motors' shaky public image could be traced to car rental lots. That's where unsuspecting travelers and their Disney-loving children were introduced to G.M.'s weakest models: its small cars. These were the company's crummy diet crackers, helping to keep its corporate fuel economy average below federal limits.
Though it profited them little, and ultimately damaged resale values, G.M. kept its factories humming by dumping its excess production into this sunbaked lot of Hertzian woe: the shrieking Vegas and Chevettes of the 1970s; the faithless Cavaliers of the '80s ; the plastic-body Saturns of the '90s and some more recent Aveos for added agony.
Today, automakers know not to rely too much on discount sales to rental fleets. And with gas prices on the rise, the Chevrolet Cruze represents G.M.'s umpteenth promise to build a small car for the right reasons. 
Those reasons include high mileage, low payments and as much room and amenities as possible for the price. Those virtues, in addition to dependability and resale value, have made many friends for the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla.
Measured by those basic-transportation standards, the Cruze really adds up. On the road, the Chevy feels terrifically solid and composed, like a midsize sedan in a smaller wrapper. Its interior tops both the Honda and Toyota with its pleasing design, good-quality materials and precise workmanship.
A special fuel-saving version, the Cruze Eco, promises the highest mileage of any nonhybrid compact car in America, up to 28 miles per gallon in the city and 42 on the highway. Even the standard Cruze's rating (24/36 m.p.g.) is near the front of the pack.
Yet since Americans rediscovered the small car, or were forced into a relationship by rising gas prices, models like the Mini Cooper and Mazda 3 have raised the stakes. Like the Cruze, these cars are more expensive than traditional small cars but they reward buyers' investments with style or performance.
But Chevy seemed so laser-focused on beating the Corolla -- calling out the Toyota by name in ad campaigns -- that it seems to have overlooked these new class killers, which manage to be economical and exciting.
And don't forget the 2012 Ford Focus, a frisky, shapely model that's a hit in Europe. It comes here in the spring.
Yes, G.M. has managed to out-Corolla the Corolla, and that's a serious achievement. The downside is that the Cruze is as clock-punchingly dull as any Toyota.
With production set for plants in Ohio, South Korea, Russia and China, G.M. figures it might sell up to one million Cruzes a year around the world. That's more than six times the sales of the car's unloved predecessor, the Cobalt. But the Cruze has been on sale for nearly two years in Europe and Asia; it might have seemed more impressive if G.M. had brought it here quicker.
Even before its arrival, the Cruze seemed the most significant compact in G.M. history: it supplies the framework for the Volt plug-in hybrid. The Cruze is also G.M.'s first true global small car, designed largely in South Korea and Germany.
Coincidentally or not, this international player is studiously generic and inoffensive, like a tourist speaking Esperanto. The result looks pleasant enough, but could have been created by C-Span; you keep staring at it, hoping something will happen.
Open the door, however, and the channel changes to the Style network. The Cruze's cabin defies its $17,715 starting price, and keeps satisfying even as a loaded LTZ model soars beyond $25,000. Close those triple-sealed doors, and the satisfying ''thunk'' banishes tinny echoes of previous G.M. compacts.
The chevron-shaped central dashboard is a model of simplicity and tight construction, with panel gaps of less than a millimeter. Everywhere you look, there are smooth grains and touchable surfaces that befit a costlier car. If these slick cabin parts had fallen into a Detroit studio a decade ago, they would have seemed as exotically alien as the monolith in ''2001: A Space Odyssey.''
Even the bottom-price Cruze LS features a class-best 10 air bags, stability control with rollover sensors, antilock brakes, tilt-and-telescope steering wheel, remote locking, air-conditioning, a driver information screen, a six-month OnStar subscription and three months of free satellite radio.
The top LTZ model adds features including 18-inch alloy wheels, heated leather seats, a leather-wrapped shifter, a steering wheel with audio controls, Bluetooth cellphone connection, automatic climate control, rear-parking sensors and remote-control starter.
While otherwise irreproachable, the interior seems devoid of fun; red needles that span the driver's gauges are the sole spunky touch. This is a car for grownups, or at least for people who can't wait to join their ranks.
And if you'd like people to check out your new Chevy, do spend $325 for either of the extra-cost metallic paint jobs -- red or black -- whose richer finishes will reflect your satisfied face.
Like the Volkswagen Jetta, the Cruze pushes the size boundaries of its class: it's only nine inches shorter and 1.5 inches narrower than a midsize Hyundai Sonata. Advancing its practical case, the Chevy's huge 15.9-cubic-foot trunk is tops among compacts and even outstrips most midsize sedans.
If you opt for the starter-model LS, you must settle for a 1.8-liter engine with 136 horsepower and 123 pound-feet of torque. Every other Cruze, including the 1LT and LTZ versions that I tested -- at a respective $18,895 and $22,695 -- gets a 1.4-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder with 138 horsepower.
The turbo engine claims 148 pound-feet of torque, but my right foot engaged in a fruitless search for life throughout the power band. My tests returned excellent economy, but the mileage is somewhat fragile because you end up flogging the car just to keep pace. Thus whipped, the engine isn't exactly loud, but it is mildly unpleasant -- an effect like a swarm of bees partying inside an oak tree. Passing requires planning.
Doing my best imitation of a hybrid dawdler, I managed 36 m.p.g. on the highway in the non-Eco models, matching the E.P.A.'s estimate. But when I ended my virtuous act, the mileage fell closer to 30 m.p.g.
If you're a patient driver who rarely floors the gas pedal, none of this should bother you. And when you're just, um, cruising, the Cruze shines. The steering is direct and confident. The interior is especially hushed for a budget sedan, and the ride makes short work of pavement imperfections.
Pricing is the tricky bit. The Eco version, starting from $18,995, proved to be my favorite Cruze. But while the leather-clad LTZ is equipped like larger sedans, it is also priced like one: throw on a $1,995 navigation system, an $850 sunroof, a $695 RS appearance package and a $445 Pioneer audio system, and the LTZ sneaks past $26,000.
Models like the Mazda 3 and its soon-to-arrive cousin, the Focus, can reach those heights as well, but their fun-to-drive feel helps to justify the premium.
Unless you're determined to downsize, the LTZ doesn't seem distinctive enough to rationalize its midsize price tag -- not when you could have a larger Malibu for about the same money.
But if you keep the price closer to $20,000, the Cruze is worth a second look, even if a first glance doesn't stop you in your tracks.
INSIDE TRACK: After decades of try, try again, G.M. succeeds with a small car.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WORLD TRAVELER: G.M. designed the Cruze, its first truly global small car, with Toyota squarely in its sights. (AU1)
NOT SO CAVALIER: The Cruze's cabin defies its base price, and that of the top-line LTZ, above, is stylish but a bit sober.
 LIVING LARGE: The Cruze is big for a compact car, and its trunk is best in class. (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



675 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: WARNING SIGNS FEB. 20-26

 BODY:
THE NEWS The benchmark price of crude oil climbed above $100 a barrel for the first time in two years.
BEHIND THE NEWS Though unrest elsewhere in the Middle East has kept markets jittery for weeks, prices did not shoot up in earnest until the trouble reached Libya and, for the first time, disrupted an important producer whose oil is prized for being close to Europe and easy to refine. Prices retreated slightly after the spike but still finished the week at $98.26 a barrel, punishingly high for the American economy, and was expected to stay high for a while. 
THE NEWS Real estate prices slid in December across the country, pushing a housing market that had once seemed to be rebounding back to its lowest levels since the financial crash.
BEHIND THE NEWS Temporary tax credits drove much of the improvement last year, but the upward trend expired when the credits ended, resulting in a dreaded ''double dip'' that may yield a new rash of foreclosures and erode banks' willingness to lend and consumers' willingness to spend. One bright spot: the total number of previously occupied homes sold picked up in January.
THE NEWS A key barometer of the industrial economy -- orders for durable goods other than transportation equipment -- fell 3.6 percent in January.
BEHIND THE NEWS The overall durable goods figure climbed a bit, but only because of $7.4 billion in orders for big-ticket commercial aircraft. Leave that volatile component out, and the drop in the index was the worst in two years. Another component, orders for nondefense capital equipment excluding aircraft, is seen as a good reflection of businesses' plans to invest; that, too, made a poor showing in January.
THE NEWS The bad news on oil from Libya took some steam out of Wall Street, with the Dow industrials falling 2.1 percent for the week; the broader S. & P. 500 index lost 1.7 percent.
BEHIND THE NEWS Stocks had been climbing for most of February on the strength of fairly robust profit reports and hopes for an economic upturn in the spring or summer, but the upheaval in Libya led investors to worry about what rising fuel prices would do to consumers' and businesses' willingness to spend, and to the Fed's ability to keep both inflation and interest rates low.
THE NEWSThe Conference Board's index of consumer confidence in the state of the economy rose to a three-year high in February -- but was still well below the levels that economists say signal a stable economy.
BEHIND THE NEWS The weak housing and job markets continued to weigh down the index, with fewer respondents to the survey saying they foresaw stronger job creation in coming months. Still, the index has been inching higher for five months -- though the latest data was gathered before the upheaval in Libya pushed oil to $100 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY LACIE ARGYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



676 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Another Way To Measure Gas Mileage

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
WHAT is the best way to measure how efficiently a car turns fuel into distance? It seems a vital question, but like food, music and the cultural importance of Jerry Lewis, the answer varies all over the world. 
American drivers familiar with thinking in miles per gallon may find it hard to fathom liters per 100 kilometers when they first drive in Europe. The problem is more complicated than converting between units of fuel and distance.
There are two basic schools of thought in telling the same story. Miles per gallon is a measure of fuel efficiency, while gallons per 100 miles measures fuel consumption. In an engineering sense, efficiency is an expression of output per input -- how far will a vehicle travel on a given amount of fuel? Consumption is the reciprocal: it expresses input per output, or how much fuel it takes to go a certain distance.
In fuel efficiency, a higher number translates to better results, or more miles for each gallon. In fuel consumption, lower numbers are better; fewer liters burned for each 100 kilometers.
Miles per gallon can be misleading when we're trying to gauge the amount of fuel that will be saved by an improvement in mileage. Improving the efficiency of a guzzler from 14 to 20 m.p.g. is about the same apparent percentage increase as improving an economy car's efficiency from 33 to 50 m.p.g. But the improvement from 14 to 20 m.p.g. actually saves twice as much fuel.
Flipping the equation over, using gallons per mile, solves this problem. To see how much fuel you'll save over a given distance with a more efficient car, you can simply subtract the g.p.m. of one car from the g.p.m. of the other and get the answer.
Because gallons per mile comes out as a very small number, it is typically multiplied by 100 to get a more manageable figure, as in gallons per 100 miles or liters per 100 kilometers.
Using fuel consumption as a comparison tool has its own conceptual problems. One might think that a car that delivers 20 percent lower (better) liters per 100 kilometers would go 20 percent farther on a given tank of gas. In fact, it will go 25 percent more distance.
Not confusing enough? Britain uses miles per gallon, but because their gallons are Imperial -- 1.2 times larger than a gallon in the United States -- the same Prius that gets 50 m.p.g. here does 60 m.p.g. across London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



677 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: If You Want 40 M.P.G., You'll Shift for Yourself

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
FOR the last few years, if you wanted a car that went more than 40 miles on a gallon of fuel, you had few choices behind hybrids and small diesels. Among purely gasoline-powered models, only the Smart Fortwo -- a doorstop-size two-seater -- carried a federal highway mileage rating above 40 m.p.g.
Impressively, the Chevrolet Cruze Eco, which is much roomier, quieter and more deluxe than the Smart, now claims the title as America's highest-mileage conventional gasoline car. Its 42 m.p.g. highway figure matches that of the ultrafrugal Volkswagen Golf, VW Jetta and Audi A3 diesels, and is within sipping distance of the greenest hybrids. 
There's just one catch: To get that 42 m.p.g. rating (28 m.p.g. in city driving), you have to be willing to row a manual transmission, something most Americans seem unwilling to consider. Choose the 6-speed automatic, as the vast majority of buyers will, and the Eco's highway rating falls to 37 (and 26 in town).
That's still impressive fuel economy, but it's just two m.p.g. better in the city, and one on the highway, than regular Cruzes with the same turbocharged 4-cylinder engine.
Unlike most hybrids -- or the $41,000 plug-in hybrid Volt that's based on the Cruze -- the Eco doesn't make you spend thousands upfront to save energy dollars on the back end. The manual-transmission Eco starts at $18,895, the same as the similarly equipped Cruze 1LT with an automatic transmission.
The Eco's optional automatic adds $1,450, though it's bundled with a mandatory connectivity package that includes a leather-wrapped shifter and steering wheel with audio controls, cruise control, Bluetooth and a USB port.
The Eco's fuel savings are rooted in a slimmer, more slippery design. Clever motorized shutters in the lower front air intake automatically close at higher speeds to reduce drag. The body is lowered 0.4 inches, and a front air dam, underbody panels and a decklid spoiler help to smooth the flow of air over the car. Chevy says the changes make the Eco 10 percent more aerodynamic.
Engineers then trimmed more than 200 pounds from the standard Cruze, leaving the Eco at just 3,009 pounds -- nearly 800 fewer than the battery-laden Volt. Lightweight 17-inch alloy wheels with low-rolling-resistance tires save 5.3 pounds at each corner. Among more than 40 other weight-saving changes, the sheet metal is thinner in certain areas and the weld flanges shorter. The back seat loses its center armrest.
But tall gearing is the secret to the manual's remarkable five m.p.g. highway advantage over the automatic. Fifth and sixth gears are serious overdrives, allowing the Eco to lope at 60 m.p.h. in top gear at engine speeds of barely 1,600 r.p.m. I observed 44 m.p.g. over a careful 60-mile highway cruise and 40 m.p.g. when I markedly picked up the pace.
The final-drive ratio is also taller than in the regular Cruzes, but such efficient gearing damps acceleration. G.M. says a run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes 10 seconds, compared with 9.1 for standard turbo models.
Yet in a happy turnabout, the most economy-minded Cruze revealed itself as the sweetest driver of the bunch. The manual transmission made it easier to keep the tiny engine in its sweet spot, and the fuel-saving tires didn't detract much from cornering grip.
Passing was less of a chore, and the limber shifter -- not quite Honda-smooth, but not bad at all -- made me a more active, involved pilot. It all recalled a long-gone era when manuals were part of the arsenal of every economy car.
The Cruze has new company in the 40-and-over club. Hyundai has taken pains to note that every version of its striking new Elantra compact is rated at 40 m.p.g. on the highway, not just a certain, special fuel-saving version. (Cough, cough.)
But Chevy's marketers won't need my help to paint a billboard-size reply: 42 still beats 40, the round number also met by the smaller Ford Fiesta. That the Chevy in question has an old-fashioned clutch pedal can be relegated, I suspect, to the fine print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HONOR BADGE: Cruze Eco is the highest-mileage nonhybrid compact. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



678 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Re-energize the Economy

BYLINE: By BILL RITTER Jr.. 
Bill Ritter Jr., a Democrat, who was the governor of Colorado from 2007 to 2011, is the director of the Center for the New Energy Economy at Colorado State University.

 BODY:
Fort Collins, Colo.
NEARLY every governor in America is wrestling with budget issues, making unenviable choices on which services, programs or salaries to reduce or eliminate, and deciding whether higher taxes and fees are viable. Most governors are hemmed in by state requirements that the budget be balanced without deficit spending. And I know how daunting -- and all-consuming -- the task can be. What I hope does not get lost in this effort is the governors' responsibility to help develop a clean energy economy in America, one that will help create jobs, wean us off foreign oil and protect the environment. 
Building this new economy starts with understanding how clean energy legislation can create jobs. During my four-year term in Colorado, I signed 57 pieces of clean energy legislation. In 2007, for example, we doubled the proportion of energy in the state that is required to come from renewable sources to 20 percent by 2020. In 2010, we increased that to 30 percent for our biggest utility. As a result, Colorado now ranks fourth among the 50 states in its number of clean energy workers per capita, and 1,500 clean energy companies call our state home -- an 18 percent increase since 2004. Wind- and solar-energy companies that have built factories and opened offices in Colorado have brought in thousands of new jobs.
Governors should also be strong advocates for natural gas, the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, while still ensuring that drilling and production are environmentally sound. In Colorado, we tangled with the energy industry, insisting that tighter regulations were needed to protect air, water, wildlife and communities. But with new rules in place, we have proved that protection and production can coexist. Last year we capped our clean energy work with a bill that required shutting down several dirty, inefficient coal plants and replacing them with cleaner energy fuels, principally natural gas.
President Obama's goal to produce 80 percent of America's energy from clean sources by 2035 is absolutely achievable. But as Washington ponders its next move on energy legislation, governors can and should lead the way.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WILDLIFE (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (67%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (74%) COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



679 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, a Rise In Piracy's Price

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
At some point, Thomas Jefferson realized, you just can't do business with pirates any more.
For years, the infant American government, along with many others, had accepted the humiliating practice of paying tribute -- essentially mob-style protection fees -- to a handful of rulers in the Barbary states so that American ships crossing the Mediterranean would not get hijacked. But in 1801, Tripoli's pasha, Yusuf Karamanli, tried to jack up his prices. Jefferson said no. And when the strongman turned his pirates loose on American ships, Jefferson sent in the Navy to bombard Tripoli, starting a war that eventually brought the Barbary states to their knees. Rampant piracy went to sleep for nearly 200 years.
The question now is: Are we nearing another enough-is-enough moment with pirates?
On Tuesday, Somali pirates shot and killed four American hostages. A single hostage intentionally killed by these pirates had been almost unheard of; four dead was unprecedented. Until now, the first thing that came to mind about Somalia's buccaneers was that they were brash and mercurial. Just a few weeks ago they let go some Sri Lankan fishermen after they essentially said, ''You're poor, like us.'' They were seen as a nuisance, albeit an expensive one, but not a lethal threat. 
Exactly what happened Tuesday is still murky. Pirates in the Arabian Sea had hijacked a sailboat skippered by a retired couple from California, and when the American Navy closed in, the pirates got twitchy. Navy Seals rushed aboard but it was too late. It's still not clear why the pirates would want to kill the hostages when their business model, which has raked in more than $100 million in the past few years, is based on ransoming captives alive.
''Of course, I do not know what the U.S. will do in response to this latest atrocity,'' said Frank Lambert, a professor at Purdue who is an expert on the Barbary pirates. But, he said, ''Jefferson advocated an armed response and eventually war against Tripoli for far less provocation.''
For years now, Somali pirates with fiberglass skiffs and salt-rusted Kalashnikovs have been commandeering ships along one of the most congested shipping routes in the world -- the Gulf of Aden, a vital conduit for Middle East oil to Europe and the United States. More than 50 vessels are now held captive, from Thai fishing trawlers to European supertankers, with more than 800 hostages. Those numbers grow each year.
But the international response has been limited, partly because the most promising remedies are intensely complicated and risky. Western powers, including the United States, have sent warships to cruise Somalia's coast and discourage attacks. When a vessel is hijacked, ship owners cough up a ransom, nowadays in the neighborhood of $5 million, and most of that cost gets passed to the end user -- consumers. Until recently, most hostages would emerge unharmed, albeit skinny and pale from being locked in a filthy room. The average time in captivity is around six months.
But recently the pirates have been getting more vicious; reports have emerged of beatings, of being hung upside down, even of being forced at gunpoint to join in raids. And now the pirates have gunned down four Americans.
''I think there's going to be some type of retaliation,'' said a European diplomat in Nairobi, Kenya, who trades ideas on anti-piracy strategies with other diplomats and was instructed not to speak publicly about the issues. ''I could see the Americans going after the pirate bosses, the organizers, maybe even blockade some of the ports that they use,'' he speculated. ''I don't think the Americans are going to invade Somalia, because of Iraq and Afghanistan, but they can use local allies.'' Another obvious possibility would be American Special Forces, who have killed terrorism suspects in Somalia.
The American government isn't revealing its plans but officials suggest -- as long as they are not quoted by name -- that the killings of the four Americans could be a game-changer. ''We get it,'' said one State Department official. ''We get the need to recalibrate.''
Any course of action, however, will confront two huge obstacles: the immensity of the sea and the depth of chaos in Somalia.
The pirates used to stick relatively close to Somalia's shores. But now, using ''mother ships'' -- hijacked vessels that serve as floating bases -- they attack ships more than 1,000 miles away. Sometimes that puts them closer to India than to home. The red zone now covers more than one million square miles of water, an area naval officers say is impossible to control.
Piracy Inc. is a sprawling operation on land, too. It offers work to tens of thousands of Somalis -- middle-managers, translators, bookkeepers, mechanics, gunsmiths, guards, boat builders, women who sell tea to pirates, others who sell them goats. In one of the poorest lands on earth, piracy isn't just a business; it's a lifeline.
And this gets to the real problem.
''The root cause is state failure,'' the American official said.
Somalia's central government collapsed more than 20 years ago, and now its landscape includes droughts, warlords, fighters allied to Al Qaeda, and malnutrition, suffering and death on a scale unseen just about anywhere else.
The United States and other Western powers are pouring millions of dollars into Somalia's transitional government, an appointed body with little legitimacy on the ground, in the hope, perhaps vain, that it can rebuild the world's most failed state and create an economy based on something like fishing or livestock. Young men then might be able to earn a living doing something other than sticking up ships.
But the transitional government has been divided, feckless and corrupt. Islamist rebels control much of the country. Few Somalis think the nation will stop being a war zone any time soon.
The shipping industry seems to know this.
''Until things change on land, you have to come down very hard on them at sea,'' said Cyrus Mody, manager of the International Maritime Bureau in London.
Shipping companies are frustrated, he said, because while many pirates are apprehended at sea by foreign navies, the vast majority are typically released unless they are caught in the act of a hijacking a ship -- which is a very narrow window because once pirates control a vessel, it's extremely dangerous to intervene.
''The laws have to be amended,'' Mr. Mody said. ''Why would a skiff be 800 miles off Somalia with a rocket-propelled grenade, a ladder and extra barrels of fuel? What are they doing? Fishing? These people need to be arrested and prosecuted.''
The last resort is military action. Many people ask: Why not storm ashore and attack the pirate bases? These dens are well known. I even visited one last year and met a pirate boss who was using millions of dollars in ransoms to build a land-based army that at first glance looked more disciplined and better equipped than Somalia's national army.
But the military option would not be pretty. The 800 or so captured seamen could be used as human shields. And no Western country has shown an appetite to send troops to Somalia, not after the Black Hawk Down fiasco of 1993, when ragtag Somali militiamen downed two American helicopters and killed 18 elite American troops. And a military attack could easily backfire. ''They might kill a few pirates, but more would certainly spring up to replace them,'' said Bronwyn Bruton, who wrote a widely discussed essay on Somalia. ''The replacements would probably be even angrier and more violent.'' In her essay, she advised the international community to essentially pull out and let Somalis sort out their problems on their own.
She added that collateral damage from a raid could be severe and ''a lot of civilian casualties could actually wind up aggravating a much bigger security threat to the U.S. -- terrorism.''
So it seems that Jefferson may have had an easier piracy problem to solve.
''I can offer a couple thoughts based on the U.S.'s dealing with pirates more than 200 years ago,'' Mr. Lambert said. ''If the U.S. response is a vigorous military response, it is likely to be difficult, costly, and prolonged'' -- a reference to the war that followed bombardment of the coast.
But, he warned, ''If it is a continuation of the present policy (whatever that is), it is almost a certainty that we will see more or perhaps escalated atrocities. ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHIPPING HAZARD: On shore, a Somali pirate boss. In the distance, a hijacked ship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(WK2) DRAWING: Here is a tally of vessels (red numbers) and their passengers and crew, where known (white numbers), believed held by Somali bandits as of last week. All in all, 51 boats and at least 819 people are believed to be held hostage. (Source: Ecoterra International) (DRAWING BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARITIME PIRACY (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SOMALI PIRACY (89%); NAVIES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (69%); MARINE TANKERS (69%); SHOOTINGS (68%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SOMALIA (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011



680 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Fight Continues

 BODY:
In defense of their bill to slash federal spending by $61 billion over the next seven months, House Republicans claim they are trying to make the economy grow and create jobs. In truth, such deep and sudden cuts could derail the recovery, without ever addressing the real sources of budget deficits -- mainly explosive health care costs and incessant high-end tax cuts. 
The question is whether the Obama administration and the Senate can prevail against the false rhetoric. Facts, analysis and the moral high ground all favor opponents of the measure. The aim is not to avoid difficult budget decisions, but to block the Republicans' heedless effort while starting a reasoned budget debate.
In a recent report, economists at Goldman Sachs estimated that the House cuts would reduce economic growth by 1.5 percentage points to 2 percentage points in the second and third quarters of 2011. That would devastate employment. As a rule of thumb, each percentage point drop in growth means a loss of 1.2 million jobs.
The cuts also would be off point. All of them come from discretionary spending, a sliver of the budget that excludes the government's biggest and fastest-growing outlays, chiefly Medicare and Medicaid. Over the past decade, Pentagon spending has accounted for almost all of the increase in discretionary outlays, with much of the rest going to homeland security, veterans benefits and the No Child Left Behind education initiative. Aside from defense, there is not a lot to cut prudently.
Which leads to the strongest argument of all against the House Republican bill -- most of the cuts would be counterproductive. Annual spending on education through high school is cut by 12 percent, or nearly $6 billion (since the cuts would be squeezed into the rest of the current budget year, they are even deeper on an annualized basis).
Those cuts include reductions to Head Start that would remove 218,000 children from the program and cuts to elementary education that would hit 2,400 schools and nearly one million students. Pell Grants for college would also be cut by nearly $6 billion. Transportation investments would be cut by 9 percent, or $8.1 billion, including $2.7 billion from rail, $1 billion from highway spending and $675 million from public transit. Americorps and other community-service programs would be eliminated, although their benefit to society surely exceeds their $1.2 billion cost. Since national service programs are matched by $800 million from foundations and other sources, that would be lost, too.
The list goes on. Small businesses would be hit by a 9 percent cut, or $84 million, to the Small Business Administration. Homeowners facing foreclosure and other Americans with legal problems would be hurt by a $70 million cut to legal aid. Financial regulators would endure deep cuts that would cripple their ability to carry out the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. That's asking for another financial crisis.
Given the need to placate House Republicans, some cuts are inevitable. Senators can turn to President Obama's budget for 2012 as a template for cutting while preserving priorities. It's time for leadership.
In coming days, at the bottom of this page, we will further explore individual penny-and-pound-foolish cuts the House Republicans want to impose, their lack of impact on the deficit and their real-world impact, often on the most vulnerable Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); VETERANS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (72%); TAX LAW (71%); MEDICAID (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (69%); CHILDREN (69%); EDUCATION LAW (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); LEGAL AID (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); FORECLOSURE (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



681 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: The Company He Keeps

BYLINE: By TODD PRUZAN. 
Todd Pruzan is the editor of GetCurrency.com and the author of ''The Clumsiest People in Europe.''

 BODY:
THE SECRET SOLDIER
By Alex Berenson
401 pp. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $25.95
Ask not what John Wells can do for your country. Seriously, don't ask. Even if you found this former C.I.A. operative in a chatty mood, his answers might leave you feeling uneasy. He's the sort of guy who borrows civilians' cars with all the hesitation of a teenage shoplifter, who'll club the skull of a useful drug dealer who's already comfortably trussed in the back of an Econoline. When a beefy thug on a pier in Cyprus dismisses him with an ostentatious yawn, Wells quickly takes him to task, dumping him into Zygi's oily harbor. And these are just the tales he could actually tell. The ones he couldn't -- now those are scary. 
A 210-pound, Montana-raised, one-man Team America, Wells has already completed four missions dreamed up by the novelist Alex Berenson. In his fifth, ''The Secret Soldier,'' Wells and an intrepid former Special Ops soldier take on a freelance assignment financed by steady streams of million-dollar Saudi paychecks. Wells must defuse an impending war on Arabian soil between the United States and the House of Saud, instigated by a terrorist group so shadowy that its attacks on soft targets around the Persian Gulf perplex even Al Qaeda.
Given this year of riot and revolution in Cairo, Tunis and Sana, it's frighteningly easy to believe Berenson's terrifying chain of events in Riyadh, Jeddah and Mecca. But Berenson, a former reporter for The New York Times, confounds traditional fantasies of patriotism and vengeance. His hero has an unfortunate knack for arriving at the scene just after the nick of time. Wells is also a conflicted Islamic convert (although Berenson uses this detail mostly as a narrative ornament -- we don't even see Wells pray until halfway through the book).
''The Secret Soldier'' luxuriates in violence, positively raging with Tarantino-style carnage. It's rare to go more than a few pages without encountering a sickening passage like this: ''Shrapnel tore open his face and neck, and one jagged piece chopped through his skull and cut into the arteries around his brain, causing massive internal bleeding. He died, but not soon enough.'' But in the spirit of his lapsed C.I.A. spook, Berenson doesn't fully trust his readers; he habitually litters his prose with research notes. When a victim of a terrorist attack in Bahrain screams, ''Call 119,'' the narrator helpfully explains: ''The Bahraini equivalent of 911.'' By the time a Montego Bay hoodlum mentions Kingston, and the narrator adds, ''the Jamaican capital,'' you feel as if you're stuck in a movie theater next to a whisperer you'd love to throttle.
Thankfully, these intrusions soon vanish, letting Berenson's confidence with forensics, scenery and storytelling bloom. He's equally convincing as he guides us into the backseat of King Abdullah's speeding Maybach and places us in the hotel room (not to mention the mind) of a cross-dressing suicide bomber. From the first page of the prologue, Berenson's most innocuous settings (11 p.m. in an Irish bar, Manama, Bahrain) reliably fill us with dread. His characters are all adept with entertaining, rat-a-tat zingers, and whenever tension mounts, Berenson ends his paragraphs with dashes --
But one of the most provocative passages in ''The Secret Soldier'' is one many readers won't notice. Set in tiny type on the copyright page is a long, unorthodox disclaimer, reaching far beyond the ''any persons living or dead'' boilerplate to detail how this novel turns Saudi Arabia's very real (and very much alive) King Abdullah into a central character, locked in an invented power struggle with invented brothers and invented sons. If the story doesn't send you racing to Wikipedia to catch up on the House of Saud and Mecca, this mind-bending footnote will.
Plunking one of the world's wealthiest, most powerful men into a terrifying thriller? That's a twist even John Wells might not have seen coming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TERRORISM (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (66%); SHOPLIFTING (57%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (55%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (55%) INDIAN OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (91%); BAHRAIN (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%); JAMAICA (78%); GULF STATES (70%); EGYPT (55%)

TITLE: Secret Soldier, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011



682 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: There's No Business Like Show Business

BYLINE: By BILL RICHARDSON. 
Bill Richardson, a Democrat, was the governor of New Mexico from 2003 to 2011.

 BODY:
Santa Fe, N.M.
IN recent years more than 40 states have offered incentives for movie and television production, recapturing ''runaway'' film projects that had left America for places like Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Eastern Europe. This has not only brought significant economic benefits back to our shores, but also has secured America's most important cultural export. After all, it is through film and television that many people from other countries come to know us -- our values, our expressions and our freedom. 
I'm proud that New Mexico has been a leader in this effort.
Unfortunately, a new campaign is under way to curtail or even eliminate these film and TV programs in many states, including my own. Some politicians call the incentives fiscally irresponsible, or giveaways to ''liberal'' Hollywood. The latter charge is mere propaganda. The former gets traction in states whose programs are not well designed. But when incentives are especially effective -- as they are in New Mexico, Louisiana and Michigan -- they can bring huge benefits to the state economy.
In New Mexico we scaled our incentives to match our specific tax structure, and we invested in programs at our universities and community colleges to train screenwriters, directors, actors, grips, electricians, makeup artists and other film professionals. As a result, we created more than 10,000 jobs in this industry and in supporting businesses, bringing nearly $4 billion into our economy over eight years. These are huge numbers for a state with a population of only about 2.1 million -- especially with the country still recovering from a recession.
Yet my state's current administration and its legislative supporters are now trying to dismantle the program by falsely pitting film incentives against what they call ''children's'' interests like education and health care, and claiming that money spent on one means less for the others. Apart from the blatant illogic of this argument -- after all, any program that's a positive for the economy benefits everyone, including children -- educational programs in film and related media arts are among the most popular at our colleges and universities. They inspire more young people to graduate from high school, pursue higher degrees and ultimately get excellent jobs.
Governors and legislatures should call ''cut!'' on cynical efforts to kill forward-looking incentive programs for film and TV production, in New Mexico and in all other states.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PING ZHU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); FILM (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); WRITERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); CANADA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



683 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: The Goals of New Taxes

 BODY:
The Goals of New Taxes
To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank is right in pushing taxes that are both revenue raisers and external cost savers (''Find the Taxes That Do Double Duty,'' Economic View, Feb. 20). For some of these types of tax es, the case is even stronger than he states. 
As just one example, the United States spends taxpayer dollars subsidizing clean-energy projects. These subsidies are necessary in large part because traditional energy sources, such as gasoline and coal, are underpriced relative to their external costs -- pollution, etc.
If taxes on traditional energy sources were allowed to rise to the point where these forms of energy had to pay for their externalities, clean energy would begin to pay for itself. That would allow us to decrease the subsidies, leading to what I've called a tax ''double dip.'' Unfortunately, whenever these points are made in Congress, politics prevents them from getting a fair hearing on the merits. Kimberly S. Blanchard
Pelham, N.Y., Feb. 23
The writer is a tax lawyer.
To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank justifies such measures as cigarette taxes on the grounds that ''only someone who thinks that people have a right to cause undue harm to others could object'' that such taxes violate anyone's rights.
That is mistaken. I am a lifelong nonsmoker who opposes cigarette taxes on the following grounds: First, they are regressive, placing the greatest financial burden on the poor. Second, the harms of second-hand smoke can be avoided by restricting smoking in public places. Felicia Nimue Ackerman
Providence, R.I., Feb. 20
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SMOKING (87%); TAX LAW (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); WRITERS (73%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); LAWYERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (76%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



684 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27B

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giants Received TIF Money, Records Show

BYLINE: By ELLYN FORTINO and MARGARET SMITH; Caitlin Bukowski, K. Herron, Becca James, Meghan Keyes, Tony Merevick, Taryn S. Smith, Mika Tatich, Dan Weissmann and Derek Eder, all of them affiliated with ChicagoTalks, contributed reporting. Chicagotalks.org is a local news Web site affiliated with the journalism department of Columbia College Chicago.

 BODY:
During the mayoral campaign, Chicagoans heard a great deal about tax increment financing, including frequent criticism that the program, Mayor Richard M. Daley's favorite economic development tool, gave big tax breaks to downtown businesses and left neighborhoods short.
An analysis of public records by ChicagoTalks, a news Web site produced by Columbia College Chicago, shows that TIF subsidies benefited dozens of profitable companies -- many of them in Chicago's thriving downtown -- while little money went to struggling, outlying neighborhoods. South Lawndale and Auburn-Gresham, for example, received no subsidies over the last decade. 
The TIF program was designed to eradicate blight, add jobs and spur economic growth. It supports public and private sector projects including infrastructure, parks, schools and corporate subsidies. Of the $1.2 billion designated for private sector projects since 2000, nearly half was earmarked for some of the area's most profitable corporations. City officials approved financing for Quaker Oats, CareerBuilder, UPS, Target and Jewel-Osco, among others.
More than half of the city's 171 TIF projects are clustered in or near the Loop. Money was also given to cultural institutions, some in the downtown area.
Many critics question whether the program should be used to benefit nonprofits like the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, which received $2.5 million. TIF money also went to market-rate housing developments, including downtown condominium buildings.
Kate Piercy, director of government reform at the Illinois Policy Institute, said TIF districts were ''created to promote economic development in blighted areas, and that's really not even the case anymore.'' Chicago has spent TIF money ''in areas that nobody in their right mind can really call blighted,'' Ms. Piercy said.
But Toby Rittner, chief executive of the Council for Development Finance Agencies, based in Columbus, Ohio, said Chicago had been a national leader in the use of TIF money. If a developer approaches Chicago officials with a sound project, chances are it will be approved, said Mr. Rittner, whose group's membership includes the City of Chicago.
Rachel Weber, an associate professor of urban planning and policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said TIF money should not be given to companies to shift jobs from one place to another within a metropolitan area. The subsidizing of corporate headquarters in the Loop is ''one of the more egregious uses of TIFs,'' Ms. Weber said.
An analysis of each project approved from Jan. 1, 2000, to July 30, 2010, found that nearly $600 million in TIF money was earmarked for companies. Nearly $100 million of that went to about a dozen companies as an inducement to move their corporate offices to Chicago or to remain in the city.
United Airlines, for example, was allotted about $31 million in TIF money. Mike Trevino, an airline spokesman, said the company was expected to employ more than 3,100 people in Chicago because of the subsidies. Mr. Trevino acknowledged that about 600 of those jobs were transferred from Elk Grove Village.
Some TIF money -- nearly $200 million -- has been approved for nonprofits, including the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies and Rush University Medical Center, which will receive $75 million. TIF critics and officials in other cities said it was rare for nonprofits to receive this type of financing.
''You have to go back to the reason why TIFs are supposed to be created in the first place,'' Ms. Piercy said, ''to generate economic growth in a blighted area.''
Joe Gromacki, TIF coordinator for Madison, Wis., said it was not practical to finance such nonprofit programs because they did not pay property taxes.
Residential projects, some of which include retail space, received more than one-fourth -- about $340 million -- of Chicago's TIF subsidies.
David Merriman, an economics professor and associate director of the Institute of Government and Public Affairs at the University of Illinois, said that was a ''pretty dangerous fiscal policy'' because residential projects cost more to service than they raise in property taxes. ''So you're giving a subsidy to something which is actually going to worsen the fiscal picture of the city,'' Mr. Merriman said.
Experts question how well the Chicago Department of Housing and Economic Development monitors the use of TIF money. City officials repeatedly declined to turn over audits, progress reports and other records that were requested under the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, saying it would take too much time to find the documents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United Airlines, whose sparkling headquarters are downtown, was allotted about $31 million in Chicago TIF subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); APPROVALS (88%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (65%); AIRLINES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

COMPANY: JEWEL-OSCO (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



685 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4474 words

HEADLINE: Mommy--Bloggest

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer and the author of the Motherlode blog.

 BODY:
O.K., then, I say, almost begging at this point, almost to the point of tears, is there anyone I can talk to who might see what I've been through and understand? And here's where I say: ''Do you know what Twitter is? Because I have over a million followers on Twitter. If I say something about my terrible experience on Twitter, do you think someone will help me?'' And she says in the most condescending tone and hiss ever uttered: ''Yes, I know what Twitter is. And no, that will not matter.'' AUG. 28, 2009, Dooce.com
The washing machine at Heather Armstrong's Salt Lake City home -- as millions of her followers already know -- is a Maytag. To be specific, it's a Performance series 4.4-cubic-foot-I.E.C.-capacity front-load steam washer that retailed for $1,599 and that she and her husband, Jon, bought on sale for $1,300, plus the 10-year warranty. They made the purchase near the end of her second pregnancy, a pre-emptive strike against the mountain of soiled onesies that accumulate when a newborn joins the family. 
As her followers also know, that machine stopped working a week after it was installed. Instead of washing clothes, it produced electronic error messages. By that time, the summer of 2009, the baby was home, the laundry was piling up and 10 days of waiting for a part turned into 10 more days of waiting for another part, and June became July which became August, which is when Armstrong threatened to bring the wrath of the Internet down on Maytag.
She is one of the few bloggers who wield that kind of clout. Typically, there are 100,000 visitors daily to her site, Dooce.com, where she writes about her kids, her husband, her pets, her treatment for depression and her life as a liberal ex-Mormon living in Utah. As she points out, a sizable number also follow her on Twitter (in the year and a half since she threatened Maytag, she has added a half-million more). She is the only blogger on the latest Forbes list of the Most Influential Women in Media, coming in at No. 26, which is 25 slots behind Oprah, but just one slot behind Tina Brown. Her site brings in an estimated $30,000 to $50,000 a month or more -- and that's not even counting the revenue from her two books, healthy speaking fees and the contracts she signed to promote Verizon and appear on HGTV. She won't confirm her income (''We're a privately held company and don't reveal our financials''). But the sales rep for Federated Media, the agency that sells ads for Dooce, calls Armstrong ''one of our most successful bloggers,'' then notes a few beats later in our conversation that ''our most successful bloggers can gross $1 million.''
By talking about poop and spit up. And stomach viruses and washing-machine repairs. And home design, and high-strung dogs, and reality television, and sewer-line disasters, and chiropractor visits. And countless other banalities of one mother's eclectic life that, for some reason, hundreds of thousands of strangers tune in, regularly, to read.
I lost my job today. My direct boss and the human-resources representative pulled me into one of three relatively tiny conference rooms and informed me that the company no longer had any use for me. Essentially, they explained, they didn't like what I had expressed on my Web site. I got fired because of dooce.com. FEB. 26, 2002
Today the sleek headquarters of Blurbodoocery Inc. -- the corporate identity of Heather and Jon Armstrong's company -- is on the 1,000-square-foot third floor of their sprawling six-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Salt Lake City, where they have lived since June.
In one corner is the glass-walled office of their newest employee, John LaCaze, who came aboard a few months before that move, and whose job description -- everything from answering e-mail to ordering lunch to making sure that time is not wasted because, after all, it is money -- has earned him the nickname ''Tyrant'' on Heather's blog. Next to LaCaze's office is the studio, equipped for audio and video. In the center are Jon and Heather's work spaces, each dominated by two enormous computer monitors and an array of cartoons and kitsch.
Next to the door of the office is etched ''Heather B. Armstrong, President,'' but by her desk is a nameplate that reads ''Heather Hamilton.'' That was who she was in February 2001 when she wrote her very first Dooce post. She was 25, with a degree in English from Brigham Young University and a job at a start-up in L.A. ''In those days when you said you had a blog, people thought you had a venereal disease,'' she says now.
Dooce was a nickname that grew out of an inside joke -- a takeoff of ''dude.'' Unlike many bloggers (particularly women) whose initial goal was to update family living far away, her postings were never meant for her relatives. She wrote of the liberation she felt leaving her parents' Mormonism behind, of sex and caffeine, of dating and work. In the summer of 2001, Armstrong's site was receiving 58 hits a day. On a whim she e-mailed Jason Kottke, one of the earliest online aggregators (whose own site was still a hobby and had not yet become kottke.org) and asked him for technical advice. He linked to Dooce, and her readership leapt to 2,000 daily hits.
Kottke also warned Armstrong that her family would eventually find out. Despite her certainty that they were as likely to search the Net as they were to vote for a Democrat, her brother did wander onto her site on Sept. 13, 2001. The first post he saw was one she describes as ''a martini-fueled diatribe against the Mormon Church'' that she wrote in anger about the attacks on the World Trade Center, committed in the name of religion. Tears, screaming and weeks of silence followed, and for a time Armstrong thought her family would never speak to her again.
Soon she would be in trouble for something else. Venting about work, she nicknamed her co-workers (as she would later nickname Tyrant) -- things like That One Co-worker Who Manages to Say Something Stupid Every Time He Opens His Mouth -- and, in what she considered the safety of her blog, she dished amusingly (and disparagingly) about them. ''I hate that the Tech Producer doesn't know how to use e-mail,'' she wrote one day. ''He's the goddamn TECH Producer, for crying out loud. I hate that one of the 10 vice presidents in this 30-person company wasn't born with an 'indoor' voice but with a shrill, monotone, speaking-over-a-passing-F16 outdoor voice. And he loves to hear himself speak, even if just to himself.''
An anonymous e-mail sent from a generic Hotmail address blew her cover. According to the Web site Urban Dictionary (and an episode of ''Jeopardy!'' last year, as well as the latest edition of Trivial Pursuit), the word ''dooced'' now means ''getting fired because of something that you wrote in your Web log.'' It could also mean capturing public attention for getting fired because of your blog. Her traffic jumped to 25,000 hits a day as her tale went viral. Overwhelmed, she shuttered the whole project, eloped with Jon (fittingly, she proposed to him in the comment section of his blog days before she was fired), adopted a pound puppy that she named Chuck and eventually moved back to Salt Lake City because Jon, too, lost his job in online marketing and design. (He was laid off as part of post-9/11 tech-industry budget cuts, not because of anything either of them wrote.)
Jon found new work fairly quickly, and for months the couple (and Chuck) lived in Heather's mother's basement while they saved to buy a house. Heather thought she was at her nadir in the windowless room, and she started blogging again -- craving the daily discipline of words on a screen and the freedom to explore her emotions.
But before she did, she made a promise to her family. ''I will never write anything that I wouldn't say to your face, with 50 people watching,'' is how she describes the agreement. And that has been her rule ever since.
Readers found her after she returned to the Web, and her traffic stayed steady at about 6,500 hits a day. Then, in April 2003, she announced she was pregnant, and the number of visits jumped again. Most of the comments were from readers who worried that hers would become a sappy ''mommy blog,'' a term just barely coming into vogue at that time. She was pretty sure it wouldn't, because she didn't plan to be a mommy with a blog.
''I figured there was no way I could keep up the writing pace after the baby was born,'' she says. ''In my mind, through the whole pregnancy, I was composing my final blog entry in my head.''
She never wrote that one. In the months after her daughter Leta's birth, Armstrong spiraled downward, hardly eating, barely sleeping and taking many combinations of psychiatric drugs but only getting worse. ''I was out of my mind,'' she would later write. ''Out. Of. My. Mind. Crazy.''
She began to worry she would harm herself (though she was sure she would never hurt her baby). Still, she resisted in-patient treatment out of fear that ''if I check myself into the hospital, no one is ever going to read me again because I'm that crazy person who checked herself into the hospital,'' she told me. Then, one morning, as she watched Jon getting dressed for his day, she stopped him. ''You can't leave,'' she said. ''If you don't get me checked in today, I am going to kill myself before you get home.''
It took four days for large doses of the right drug combination to bring her ''as close to sane as I get,'' she says now. When Jon visited her in the hospital, she gave him notes scribbled in longhand to type onto her blog. Two thousand readers wrote back. By the time she came home, her Web traffic had quadrupled.
There are really good days, days when I feel strong enough to handle this, days when I look at the future ahead of us and I get excited about the ride. On good days I can go several hours without crying.
And then there are bad days, days when I can't see ever leaving the house again, days when I think that by the time I do leave the house again my hair will be past my waistline because how can I ever get my hair cut when the baby needs to be fed every 2.5 hours?? On bad days I think I'll never be able to walk the dog again, I'll never go shopping again, I'll never see a movie in a movie theater again. On bad days I cry all day long. FEB. 20, 2004
The month Leta Armstrong was born, Technorati estimated that there were two million blogs on the Internet, a number that was doubling every five months. Of those, Armstrong's was one of the few -- one of the earliest -- successful personal narratives. It was a life lived as a cautionary tale. A daily reality show on a smaller screen. Readers had already shown they would click through for breaking news, Hollywood gossip and techie inside dirt. Now they were showing that they'd also come to hear a blogger say what others might have thought, or feared, or wondered, but had kept to themselves.
It was the start of an explosion, a meeting of 18th-century journaling, 19th-century magazine serials and the intimate universality of cyberspace. Click almost anywhere on the Internet on any random day and you will find yourself in the middle of someone's story. Dawn Meehan's blog, Because I Said So, for instance, was a funny chronicle about life as the mother of six children. But then her husband walked out over Christmas, and two of her sons were hospitalized with depression, and the family lost health insurance and the boiler died and a colony of black mold was found behind the walls and Dawn needed surgery.
Mama Pundit, Katie Allison Granju's blog, was mostly about her blended second family. But then last spring her 18-year-old son, Henry, who had been struggling with addiction, was beaten in a drug deal gone wrong. After an overdose and several precarious weeks in the hospital, he died. Thousands of strangers followed her grief and rebuilding, as she went on to give birth to a daughter weeks after losing her son.
Before that was Stephanie Nielson, known as Nie Nie, a mother of four who was severely burned when her plane crashed during a flying lesson three years ago, and has shared her story of living in a scarred and broken body. Or Heather Spohr, whose 17-month-old daughter, Madeline, died suddenly of a respiratory infection in 2009, and whose blog has become a gathering place for thousands of parents who have lost babies.
The most screenplay-ready tale, hands down, is that of Ree Drummond, a former L.A. party girl who met a cowboy in an Oklahoma bar on a visit home and became a ranch wife a year and a half later. They now have four children, whom Drummond home-schools while raising cattle and chronicling it all on The Pioneer Woman, which she began on a whim in 2006. The site is a down-home smorgasbord of photos, anecdotes and recipes, and for more than a year it included installments of the story of how she and her husband met and married. She has just compiled those into a book titled ''The Pioneer Woman: Black Heels to Tractor Wheels.'' Reese Witherspoon has expressed interest in playing Drummond in the movie.
Among women who blog, Drummond and Armstrong are at the top. There are almost as many ways to measure reader traffic as their are blogs right now, but Nielsen estimates that Dooce sometimes has as many as six million visitors a month, and Pioneer Woman is in the same range. Both bloggers have best-selling books: ''It Sucked and Then I Cried'' is Armstrong's story of postpartum depression; ''The Pioneer Woman Cooks'' is Drummond's first book, a cookbook illustrated with photos of food and cowboys, including rear views of her husband, clad in Wranglers and chaps as he bucks broncos and brands calves.
Having a tale to tell is only the first step, of course. Still evolving is the art of making a living from that tale. Heather and Jon both worked in online marketing, yet they were hesitant about adding advertising to Dooce early on. More specifically, it was Heather who hesitated. She feared ''selling out'' and the reaction from readers. But after her postpartum breakdown, her therapist prescribed that she hire a baby-sitter to come every day. Ads became a way to pay for child care.
The Armstrongs started small at the end of 2004, with Google ads (the kind that appear on registered sites and pay anywhere from a few pennies to a few dollars, depending on Web traffic). Before long they had contracted with an agency that actively sought display advertisers, making Dooce the first personal Web site to accept significant advertising. When monthly income from the blog exceeded Jon's paycheck for the same period, he quit his job to manage the business.
Armstrong's readers responded as she'd feared. ''They screamed, 'Who do you think you are?' '' she remembers. '' 'What made you important enough to make money on your Web site?' ''
It is a question that hovers over all personal blogs -- if they are based on trust, do you violate that trust by introducing commerce? Readers of personal blogs return again and again for the connection, the feeling they really know the writer -- and ads can break the ''we're all friends here'' mood.
''At its best we are seeing the empowerment of women,'' says Elisa Camahort Page, a co-founder of BlogHer, one of the leading ad-placement companies for blogs. ''They can turn something they love into something that brings income into their household. But that has to be done with care.''
Amy Oztan, who blogs at SelfishMom.com, is particularly transparent when it comes to her sponsors. She has a lot of them -- companies who pay her, in money or in product, to advertise on her site or to mention them. Oztan has an entire section explaining how she makes her money, including an extensive index of tabs she uses to alert readers to the economics of everything she writes. It starts with Level 1 -- ''The product or service mentioned was provided to Amy free of charge (or at a considerable discount not available to the public)'' -- and goes up to Level 13: ''This is a sponsored post. Amy was compensated to write this post. While Amy's opinions in the post are authentic, talking points may have been suggested by the sponsor.'' In between these extremes are compensation for inserting links to a certain Web site, attending an event or administering a product giveaway. Which pretty much explains why, between daily witticisms, she so regularly describes how she offered Kleenex to the woman next to her at a conference or placed her HTC HD7 Windows phone on the tray table next to her when she lucked into an empty row on her last plane trip.
Others are not quite as comfortable making their Web pages into billboards. Drummond's site carries ads but runs giveaways only of items that she pays for herself; she does not accept direct sponsorships (that is, ads with her photo) because she worries that this is at odds with a Web site about ''the simple life on a ranch.'' True, she does write periodically about how the only thing missing from that life is a venti caramel Starbucks latte, but Starbucks does not pay her to say it.
Drummond works with Blog/Her, which sells ad space on parenting sites in bundles. Armstrong in turn works with Federated Media, which bundles as well and also charges some companies a premium to appear specifically on Dooce.com. A key advertiser is Suave shampoo, and a Suave banner ad with Armstrong's photo sometimes appears at the top of the site. Suave also sponsors a ''Community'' section, where readers can interact more extensively. This summer, the renovation of the office was sponsored by Verizon, and Jon shot a series of videos of Heather describing the new furniture and the computer wiring. Each one ran as a post on the site, opening and closing with the Verizon logo. Part of the deal was that the Armstrongs had to switch from iPhones to Droids during the renovation. When the sponsorship ended this fall, Heather and Jon immediately went back to their beloved ATT-powered phones.
Is the commercialism turning off readers? Yes and no. Being powerful on the Internet is an odd and contrary state. ''Influential'' can mean strangers love you, but it is just as likely to mean that they hate you. What it really means is that they read you. And if you infuriate some and have others rising to your defense, all the better. When your fans and your critics tangle in the intimate anonymity of your comments section, that ups your page views and, in turn, your ad rates.
Good for business, but the criticism can feel very personal. Because on a personal Web site, it is. And as Armstrong's impact grows, so does readers' anger -- and so, too, her creative ways of turning the critics to her advantage. Take the Maytag incident. After getting no satisfaction from her washing-machine company, Armstrong did take to Twitter. Then she fielded frantic, apologetic calls from Maytag and not only got her washing machine fixed but also had a second one donated by a different company to a nearby women's shelter (that one was a Bosch). She wrote about it all on her blog, and many readers got very angry. ''The mommy-blog community was up in arms, because I was wielding my power in an irresponsible way and I would cause people at Maytag to lose their jobs,'' she says. ''And then there was a discussion about my sense of entitlement and my narcissism. Do I think I can rule the world with my finger on Twitter? And why don't I ever use my power for good? Or give back to my community?''
The anger, in turn, upped her page views. ''Heather was huge,'' Jon said. ''It was the biggest thing she'd ever done in terms of traffic. Bigger than going on 'Oprah.' Bigger than giving birth to Marlo'' -- the Armstrongs' second daughter. ''I mean, Marlo was good for business, but the hate was better.''
All this came while she was caring for a newborn, and also suffering with a painful case of shingles and distraught over her grandmother's imminent death. So one morning, after reading, yet again, about the pointiness of her chin, she fought back. She had Jon create a new section of Dooce, with a new and separate ad base, where she posted her hate mail and invited readers to scroll through. As they scrolled, the ad revenue accumulated.
The Armstrongs won't say how much money they made from the hate, just that it was ''a large, large sum.'' Heather says they gave most of it away at Christmas in 2009, paying the past-due mortgage for a neighbor who was struggling, and treating Heather's sister, who'd never had her hair done professionally, to a cut and color. They made donations to the women's shelter where they sent the new washing machine. And they didn't write a word about that on the blog.
I mean, we've sort of got a rhythm going, one where the drummer and guitarist are playing two different songs, and the lead singer is just making up words as it goes along, and the sound is just awful but we're calling it ''art.'' JULY 20, 2009
Lunch at Blurbodoocery Inc. is a family affair -- Heather and Jon, 18-month-old Marlo, LaCaze, and Heather's cousin McKenzie (who baby-sits for Marlo during the day, and for 7-year-old Leta when she is home from school), all gathered around the table in the stone-and-glass kitchen. The ability to blur home and work is one reason they bought this house when the company began to burst the seams of their smaller one. They considered just renting office space, as most start-ups do when they grow. But ''my life is the business,'' Armstrong says. ''It wouldn't work without the chaos nearby, without being able to wear my workout clothes all day and nap on the bed with the dogs.''
On a frigid day in December, Leta was home for Christmas break, and a classmate was over. While we adults (and Marlo) cheered them on, the first graders played with the Xbox Kinect -- an advertiser on Dooce -- running in place while their avatars raced on the screen. Leta was losing, again and again. Her frustration grew and then spilled over, until the little girl was on the floor in tears.
Armstrong tried joking with Leta, then hugging her, then distracting the two children with another game that didn't require as much coordination. Noticing that I'd been taking notes during the meltdown, Armstrong winced but didn't ask me to stop. ''It's all fodder,'' she said. ''It's all material.''
Or is it? It's true that the most-trafficked personal bloggers appear to have few boundaries, in part because so many found their followers, and their voices, in times of crisis. Yet the most successful of the genre, the women who manage to turn this into a living, or at least part of one, pull off the neat trick of seeming to share more than they do. ''Nobody reveals every piece of themselves online,'' Drummond says. ''It's not really inventing a personality as much as shying away from certain subjects.''
She will casually mention the ''self-diagnosed'' agoraphobia that makes it an ordeal to leave the ranch, for instance, but she will not allow herself to become ''a poster child'' for that cause. She will talk about her husband the cowboy, and their country lifestyle, but she never mentions that he comes from a family of wealthy ranchers. And while her relationship is best known to her readers for its Harlequin-steamy romance, there are no actual sex scenes in the 40-chapter online version of the serial. ''Hanky-panky is off-limits'' she says. Her rule is that if she would not talk to her sister about something, she won't write about it on her blog -- and she wouldn't dream of talking to her sister about her sex life.
Armstrong talks far more openly about, well, everything, but look closely, and even she is practicing restraint. She is circumspect about mentioning either her own or Jon's family, who have made it clear they prefer not to be discussed on Dooce. And lately she writes far less often about her oldest daughter, Leta. In a post last summer, Armstrong explained (without actually saying so directly) that Leta was acting like a door-slamming, eye-rolling teenager -- years ahead of schedule.
I think it's a combination of reasons why I've started writing less about her. One, she expressed displeasure at having her picture taken several months ago, and now she actually runs out of the room when I break out a camera. Two, I didn't expect our relationship to become so complicated so early in her life. In fact, I thought that some of what is going on in our house wasn't going to happen for another 10 years. But here it is, and the level of complexity is not really something I want to talk about publicly. . . . For the last several months, if I have mentioned Leta here, I have most likely asked her if I could do so, even if it has been something totally innocuous. I intend to practice this going forward, so I guess maybe I am censored to some extent. Ha! Look, Leta! You're more powerful than Verizon! AUG. 9, 2010
It is perversely fitting that the child whose birth was the catalyst for Dooce now shies away from having her life chronicled. But it's hardly surprising. Armstrong says she has always known that babies' tales belong to their parents, then as they grow, ownership shifts. She wishes it were otherwise -- the sharing that got her through postpartum depression would sure be helpful when dealing with a moody teenager. It would also be great material. How do you keep readers coming back while also keeping things to yourself?
There was a hint of the changing balancing act in mid-February, when Jon landed in the hospital because he was experiencing shortness of breath. Heather chronicled it all on Twitter and Dooce. She shared her fears. She cracked a few jokes. But she told readers only that the diagnosis turned out to be ''inconclusive.'' (She left it to Jon to point out on his blog that it might have been a side effect of new depression medication.) In other words, she will write about Leta . . . but not really. She will tell readers something is going on . . . but not what. She will let strangers feel as if they know what she is going through . . . but not completely. It's a sleight of hand that seems a necessary part of this evolution from online diary to online business.
''This is where Heather has become a master,'' Jon told me earlier when I asked him whether a blog like Heather's was sustainable as children grow up and families tire of the magnifying lens. ''She has the ability to take a single episode and turn it into an epic, and then, if you go word by word and ask, 'What did she reveal?' it's really not very much. David Sedaris once said that his stories are 'true enough.' Blogs, the ones that last, are also 'true enough.' ''
Online Correction: February 23, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the book titles ''The Pioneer Woman: Black Heels to Tractor Wheels'' and ''The Pioneer Woman.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM41)
 THE HOME OFFICE: Leta (airborne), Heather and Marlo and Jon, the staff and inspiration of Dooce.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHERINE LEDNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (60%); DEPRESSION (50%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (50%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (76%) UTAH, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



686 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Angry Arizona, Again

 BODY:
Many states are doing urgent business: jobs, the economy, broken budgets. Arizona's legislators are trying to give government new powers to strip away individual rights, to extend immigration enforcement into schools, public housing, hospitals and doctor's offices. 
Arizona made itself ground zero for a new nativism last year with a radical policing law that encouraged racial profiling and declared the mass expulsion of undocumented immigrants to be official state policy. This led to boycotts, slumping tourism and convention business, and lawsuits, including one by the Obama administration. Yet Arizona's current legislative session is overstuffed with nativist bills, several of which passed through committee on Tuesday in an ''omnibus'' measure.
They include:
A bill to chop up the 14th Amendment to deny citizenship to children born in Arizona to undocumented mothers. A bill requiring hospitals to check every patient's citizenship status, turning doctors and nurses into the immigration police. A bill to deny education to undocumented children by requiring proof of citizenship to enroll in any public or private school. A bill to criminalize driving by illegal immigrants, and to evict them from public housing. This will fix nothing, and do real harm.
The birthright citizenship bill interprets the 14th Amendment in a way no federal court or Congress ever has. The state would issue a different type of birth certificate to babies whose parents lack papers. It's a nonexistent problem; women are not sneaking over the border to have babies who -- when they turn 21 -- may be able to sponsor them for green cards. The plan will not drive away illegal immigrants, but it would turn generations of young Americans into deportable criminals.
The Supreme Court has ruled that undocumented children have a right to primary education, because the country is not served by perpetuating an illiterate underclass. And yet Arizona's elected leaders persist in their assault on that principle. The bills' sponsors don't seem to care about the damage they do. They are bent on inflaming the anxieties in a changing country, even when crime is down in border cities and immigration has tapered off. New Census data shows America's population growing more slowly than it has since the 1930s -- another era of rampant bigotry and racial scapegoating.
We hope the angry Arizonans, and the rest of the country, will soon return to their values. Citizenship by birth and assimilation of newcomers are central to the American experiment. All that separates our newest immigrants from previous waves is the lack of a working system to assimilate them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); DEPORTATION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EVICTION (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); CRIME RATES (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); RACIAL PROFILING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); BOYCOTTS (71%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); CENSUS (64%); TOURISM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



687 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
TALIBAN SWITCHING TACTICS
In Effort to Turn Afghans
Instead of firefights aimed at Western troops, the Taliban and other insurgent groups in Afghanistan are deploying suicide bombs to sow terror, according to military analysts. The insurgents' bet that fear will trump anger and that Afghans will lose faith in their government's security forces and eventually turn to the Taliban. In less than four weeks, 116 Afghans have died in seven suicide attacks. News Analysis. Page 6
ATTACK ON IRAQ REFINERY
Iraq's largest oil refinery was crippled by a predawn attack after gunmen stormed the vast complex, killed one engineer and set off several bombs. The attack, the second this month against Iraq's oil sector, shut down parts of the Baiji Refinery, halting the production of about 150,000 barrels per day of oil derivatives and raising questions about the security of Iraq's antiquated refineries. Page 6 
NORTH KOREA KEEPS GRIP
Even as North Korea faces increasing military and political tensions, a stretch of subzero temperatures, a dwindling supply of fuel and an epidemic of foot and mouth disease, analysts said the country's Communist government showed no sign of relaxing its political grip or opening up its economy beyond agreeing to some joint ventures with China and allowing some private traders to operate. Page 8
OPTION IN JAPAN'S IMPASSE
A Japanese ruling party elder suggested that Prime Minister Naoto Kan's resignation was an option to win opposition support for bills to enact a workable budget, adding to pressure on the unpopular leader as he struggles with a divided parliament. Rifts in the Democratic Party have weakened Mr. Kan's grip on power and distracted the government from dealing with policy problems. Page 8
National
IN TOLEDO, AS ELSEWHERE,
School Finances Feel Pinch
At the beginning of the school year, the Toledo, Ohio, school district cut high school cross-country, wrestling, golf and boys' tennis teams, along with all intramural activities. It is a scenario that is being played out across the country, as high unemployment, falling home values and declining tax revenues continue to batter school finances. Page 14
A RECORD LOBSTER HAUL
Maine's 2010 lobster haul -- some 93 million pounds, up from 81 million in 2009 -- was the largest on record, with the decline of predators, like cod, and the state's strict conservation rules for lobster among the most commonly cited reasons. Despite the vast supply, prices went up, too, a promising turn of events after the global financial crisis forced drastic price declines in 2009. Page 14
DISAPPEARING EARMARKS
There is an extraordinary aspect to the fiscal clash unfolding on Capitol Hill: earmarks have disappeared from the budgetary landscape. It is still sinking in for both those who have lavished money on hometown projects and those who have spent years opposing them that the pork-barrel spending is, at least for now, at an end. Congressional Memo. Page 16
Metropolitan
A PROLIFIC CAREER REPORTING
On the City's Unsavory Side
In 37 years of prolific writing for The Village Voice, Wayne Barrett became the unrivaled master of long, dense articles about the unsavory side of New York's political culture. Recently laid off and unexpectedly unemployed at age 65, Mr. Barrett is now working on an article for The Nation and working on another article for Tina Brown at Newsweek. Page 1
Sports
HIS MANSION, NOT HIS PLAY,
Has Jeter Making News
Derek Jeter's Tampa mansion, which features seven bedrooms, nine bathrooms, a pool, two boat lifts, a drive-through portico and a pair of three-car garages flanking the north and south ends of the property, has generated dozens of stories in area newspapers in the past few years and drew national attention last week when the Yankees' co-chairman, Hank Steinbrenner, remarked that some players had been ''too busy building mansions'' last season and not concentrating enough on winning. Page 3
FUTURE OF IN-LINE HOCKEY
Professional in-line hockey -- or roller hockey, as it is more commonly known -- was extremely successful early, and in the 1990s seemed to be on the fast track to legitimacy. While things quickly went south when ESPN declined renew its TV contract with the league in 1996, some enthusiasts say that making in-line hockey an Olympic sport would start a revival. Page 2
THE N.F.L.'S TRADE SHOW
A combination trade show, debutante ball and the world's most overanalyzed livestock auction, the N.F.L. scouting combine allows coaches, players and reporters a chance to interact cautiously and awkwardly as teams begin the process of identifying potential picks in this year's draft. Page 9
Obituaries
JAY LANDESMAN, 91
A writer and editor whose journal Neurotica analyzed the anxieties of postwar America and whose Broadway musical, ''The Nervous Set,'' had been called the first (and only) Beat musical, Jay Landesman was an animating figure in the countercultural scene. Page SP10
Business
A COMPANY PATROLS
The Web's Playgrounds
Since starting Metaverse in 2007, Amy Pritchard, its chief executive, has emerged as an industry expert in creating safe, engaging online communities for both children and grown-ups. The company employs an army of workers to monitor and moderate Web sites where children create their own characters, or avatars, with a client list that includes the National Football League and the State Department. Page 1
A MUST-HAVE APP
Bubblegum, a new app that lets you instantly dress up cellphone photos, tinting them in sepia or adding neon blue highlights, for instance, and then share the results on Facebook, is an app for a nascent market: people whose smartphones have the new Windows Phone 7 software inside. The phones have been on the market for only a few months in the United States. Anne Eisenberg, Novelties. Page 3
TOLL ON EMERGING MARKETS
After the first real signs of inflation surfaced this year, emerging-market stocks experienced their first real setback since the global financial panic of 2008. This development would seem to underscore the growing complexity of investing in emerging markets as well as their growing risks, strategists say. Paul J. Lim, Fundamentally. Page 5
Automobiles
NEW MILEAGE STANDARDS
Are Decades in Making
The government's requirement for the combined fuel economy of new car and light-truck fleets has been raised to the equivalent of 35.5 m.p.g. for 2016, from the 27.5 m.p.g. level where it had been stalled since 1990. The coming standards are the latest step in a regulatory process that began in 1975 with the passage of the Energy Policy Conservation Act after the Arab oil embargo. Page SP12
Arts and Leisure
THE INSIDE STORY
On Being an Outsider
The New York Conceptual artist Glenn Ligon's midcareer retrospective is set to open at the Whitney on March 10. His paintings, prints and drawings use phrases written or uttered by personalities like Mary Shelley, James Baldwin and Malcolm X, take on social issues and speak to the urgency of change. PAGE 1
HELL, BROTHERS AND AN IMPALA
For people who are neither 15 years old nor the sort for whom the term fan fiction has an ounce of resonance, ''Supernatural'' is not likely to be in your frame of reference. But the series, now in its sixth season on the CW network, remains an invisibly pervasive cultural phenomenon: enormously popular and yet unknown even to many of those of us who take pride in dabbling in the literature and television of young adults. PAGE 18
Sunday Magazine
HOW A GOVERNOR BECAME
A Republican Star
Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, became the most celebrated Republican in America by tagging public-sector workers like cops and firefighters -- and especially teachers -- as 21st century welfare queens. PAGE 32
MOMMY BLOGGEST
Of all the self-exposing bloggers striving to be heard, Heather Armstrong has emerged as the master of the art and commerce of the overshare. PAGE 40
T Magazine
THE REAL HOUSEWIFE
Of Paris
The actress Salma Hayek may be a whirlwind of glamour and work, but she still throws herself into domestic life with gusto. PAGE 174
TOUGH COOKIES
Washington's weirdos may get most of the attention, but Gloria Steinem casts her sights on the female politicos who are really minding the store. PAGE 188
Sunday Styles
THE NEW PARTY BOY
Of The Paris Review
Last spring, Lorin Stein was anointed the new editor of The Paris Review, only the third to hold the title in the magazine's 58-year history. It's a job that requires him to be both a man about town and a copious consumer of fiction and poetry. PAGE 1
THE LAST RED CARPET
Over the long awards season, which ends this weekend, Jennifer Lawrence has gone from being the unknown actress in ''Winter's Bone'' to being the star every top designer wants to dress. PAGE 1
Book Review
'THE WRONG WAR'
Bing West's book on the war in Afghanistan goes a long way toward explaining why the American counterinsurgency strategy has not delivered its promised success. PAGE 1
MAUREEN DOWD
If you can chew gum and walk, can you drive and tweet? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
FRANK RICH
With a shutdown of the federal government imminent, the G.O.P. has deluded themselves into thinking they won't be blamed. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
PUBLIC EDITOR
Why ''C.I.A.'' was too risky to publish in the case of Raymond Davis, who is charged with murder in Pakistan. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (87%); EDUCATION FUNDING (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (72%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (62%); HOME PRICES (61%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



688 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Face the Pension Problem

BYLINE: By MARK SANFORD. 
Mark Sanford, a Republican, was the governor of South Carolina from 2003 to 2011.

 BODY:
Charleston, S.C.
THERE is a saying that all chickens come home to roost, and given my own life story I know it's true. Problems must be dealt with, and the longer we put them off, the more certain they are to grow and return. 
So when I survey the economic landscape of South Carolina, and of all other states, one of the most daunting challenges I see is public employee pensions. Each state must be able to sustain its political promises -- and its finances -- to remain competitive. Boeing's decision last year to move to our state was driven by how desirable we were as a place to do business, and that in turn is affected by our government's cost structure.
Pension issues will become even more important this year, as state budgets lose the masking effect of two years of federal stimulus money.
Underlying the challenge of keeping our pension promises is the issue of fairness. The glue that holds America together is the belief that our system is fair. But people on opposite sides of the issue see fairness from different perspectives. Some 24 million active and retired state and local public employees nationwide have pension packages that guarantee benefits, and would find it unfair to have that guarantee yanked away from them. Yet many taxpayers see financing government workers' benefits as an unfair burden.
Taxpayers' anger over pensions stems in part from instances in which employees have gamed the system. In California, for instance, the former city administrator of the town of Vernon (population 91) receives about $500,000 a year in retirement, not including his health benefits. In South Carolina, a legislator making $15,000 happened to get a $100,000 plum political job for a few years to wrap up his time in ''public service'' -- and that became the salary on which his retirement was based.
Our state's pension system is only about 60 percent financed. The unfinanced liability is estimated to be $20 billion to $50 billion. While I was governor, the Legislature tried to solve the problem by passing a bill that simply raised the assumed rate of return for the fund from 7.25 percent to 8 percent. If only the solutions to all our financial problems were as easy as changing an assumption!
We got into this mess because, historically, it has been too easy for politicians to make grand promises to public employees. During my eight years in office, we were at least able to bring the issue to the table and get politicians and the public to recognize it. Now state governments across America must confront it. We see the battles now taking place in Wisconsin and New Jersey, and soon the same fight will come to every state.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BUDGETS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



689 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 6545 words

HEADLINE: 'When I Run Out of Fights to Have, I'll Stop Fighting'

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, a staff writer, covers national politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
Like a stand-up comedian working out-of-the-way clubs, Chris Christie travels the townships and boroughs of New Jersey/, places like Hackettstown and Raritan and Scotch Plains, sharpening his riffs about the state's public employees, whom he largely blames for plunging New Jersey into a fiscal death spiral. In one well-worn routine, for instance, the governor reminds his audiences that, until he passed a recent law that changed the system, most teachers in the state didn't pay a dime for their health care coverage, the cost of which was borne by taxpayers.
And so, Christie goes on, forced to cut more than $1 billion in local aid in order to balance the budget, he asked the teachers not only to accept a pay freeze for a year but also to begin contributing 1.5 percent of their salaries toward health care. The dominant teachers' union in the state responded by spending millions of dollars in television and radio ads to attack him. 
''The argument you heard most vociferously from the teachers' union,'' Christie says, ''was that this was the greatest assault on public education in the history of New Jersey.'' Here the fleshy governor lumbers a few steps toward the audience and lowers his voice for effect. ''Now, do you really think that your child is now stressed out and unable to learn because they know that their poor teacher has to pay 11/2 percent of their salary for their health care benefits? Have any of your children come home -- any of them -- and said, 'Mom.' '' Pause. '' 'Dad.' '' Another pause. '' 'Please. Stop the madness.' ''
By this point the audience is starting to titter, but Christie remains steadfastly somber in his role as the beseeching student. '' 'Just pay for my teacher's health benefits,' '' he pleads, '' 'and I'll get A's, I swear. But I just cannot take the stress that's being presented by a 11/2 percent contribution to health benefits.' '' As the crowd breaks into appreciative guffaws, Christie waits a theatrical moment, then slams his point home. ''Now, you're all laughing, right?'' he says. ''But this is the crap I have to hear.''
Acid monologues like this have made Christie, only a little more than a year into his governorship, one of the most intriguing political figures in America. Hundreds of thousands of YouTube viewers linger on scenes from Christie's town-hall meetings, like the one in which he takes apart a teacher for her histrionics. (''If what you want to do is put on a show and giggle every time I talk, then I have no interest in answering your question.'') Newly elected governors -- not just Republicans, Christie says, but also Democrats -- call to seek his counsel on how to confront their own staggering budget deficits and intractable unions. At a recent gathering of Republican governors, Christie attracted a throng of supporters and journalists as he strode through the halls of the Hilton San Diego Bayfront Hotel like Bono at Davos.
While Christie has flatly ruled out a presidential run in 2012, there is enough conjecture about the possibility that I felt moved to ask him a few weeks ago if he found it exhausting to have to constantly answer the same question. ''Listen, if you're going to say you're exhausted by that, you're really taking yourself too seriously,'' Christie told me, then broke into his imitation of a politician who is taking himself too seriously. '' 'Oh, Matt, please, stop asking me about whether I should be president of the United States! The leader of the free world! Please stop! I'm exhausted by the question!' I mean, come on. If I get to that point, just slap me around, because that's really presumptuous. What it is to me is astonishing, not exhausting.''
There is, in fact, something astonishing about the ascent of Chris Christie, who is about as slick as sandpaper and who now admits that even he didn't think he would beat Jon Corzine, the Democrat he unseated in 2009. Some critics have posited that Christie's success in office represents merely the triumph of self-certainty over complexity, the yearning among voters for leaders who talk bluntly and with conviction. Yet it's hard to see Christie getting so much traction if he were out there castigating, say, immigrants or Wall Street bankers. What makes Christie compelling to so many people isn't simply plain talk or swagger, but also the fact that he has found the ideal adversary for this moment of economic vertigo. Ronald Reagan had his ''welfare queens,'' Rudy Giuliani had his criminals and ''squeegee men,'' and now Chris Christie has his sprawling and powerful public-sector unions -- teachers, cops and firefighters who Christie says are driving up local taxes beyond what the citizenry can afford, while also demanding the kind of lifetime security that most private-sector workers have already lost.
It may just be that Christie has stumbled onto the public-policy issue of our time, which is how to bring the exploding costs of the public workforce in line with reality. (According to a report issued last year by the Pew Center on the States, as of 2008 there was a $1 trillion gap, conservatively speaking, between what the states have promised in pensions and benefits for their retirees and what they have on hand to pay for them.) Then again, he may simply be the latest in a long line of politicians to give an uneasy public the scapegoat it demands. Depending on your vantage point, Chris Christie is a truth-teller or a demagogue, or maybe even a little of both.
To say that New Jersey has a budget problem wouldn't really be accurate. The state has at least three major budget problems related to the costs of the public workforce, all of which contribute to a shortfall that the state's legislative accounting office projects to be almost $11 billion this year -- an amount that's more than a third of the state's total budget. And in order to understand what's happening in statehouses all over the country, and what Christie is trying to do about it in New Jersey, it helps to have some sense of how these problems tie together.
First, there's the local aid. New Jersey sends 40 percent of its annual budget to an overlapping tangle of 566 municipalities and 600-plus school districts, in order to help them slow the mutantlike growth of local property taxes, which are among the highest in the country. Each of these little hamlets and districts negotiates its own labor contract with the police and firefighters, sanitation workers and, most consequentially, teachers, which means the contracts established by the most affluent communities end up setting a statewide standard -- a process that drives up everyone else's costs to a level that the local governments simply can't sustain by themselves.
Second, in the long term, New Jersey doesn't have nearly enough money on hand to cover its pension obligations to teachers and other state workers. At no time in the last 17 years has New Jersey fully met its annual obligation to the pension fund, and in many of those years, the state paid nothing at all. (That didn't stop one governor, Donald DiFrancesco, a Republican, from increasing payouts by 9 percent and lowering the retirement age before he left office, which would be kind of like Bernie Madoff writing you a $1 million check before heading off to jail.) Even had the state been contributing faithfully to the fund as it was supposed to, however, there would still be trouble ahead. That's because New Jerseyans, who are glass-half-full kind of people, have assumed an improbably healthy return of 8.25 percent annually on the state pension fund. The actual return over the last 10 years averaged only 2.6 percent.
Finally, the state will pay close to $3 billion this year in health care premiums for public employees (including retired teachers), and that number is rising fast. New Jersey has set aside exactly zero dollars to cover it. All told, in pensions and health care benefits, New Jersey's ''unfunded liability'' -- that is, the amount the actuaries say it would need to find in order to meet its obligations for the next 30 years -- has now passed the $100 billion mark.
There was little in Christie's uninspiring campaign to make anyone think he would address these issues with more tenacity than the governors who preceded him. A U.S. attorney whose only overtly political experience entailed serving on the Morris County Board of Chosen Freeholders (seriously, they still call it that), Christie had only a fraction of Corzine's public exposure or personal fortune. About the only thing he had going for him was that Corzine was pervasively unpopular. And so rather than come up with a lot of actual ideas, which Corzine would then be free to oversimplify and distort in a barrage of television ads, Christie simply offered up a bunch of conservative platitudes and tried to make the campaign a referendum on the Democratic governor. (When we talked during the campaign, Christie could articulate little by way of an agenda, except to say that he would ''get in there and make it work.'') Even a lot of Republicans thought Christie was underwhelming as a campaigner.
In the end, Christie won by about four points on Election Night in 2009, with little notion of what he was going to do next. When I asked him if there was any one moment of clarity that put him on the path from cautious candidate to union-bashing conservative hero, Christie pointed to a meeting about a month into the transition, when his aides came to him brandishing an analysis of the state's cash flow produced by Goldman Sachs. They advised the governor-elect that, without some serious action, the state could fail to meet payroll by the end of March. After scrutinizing the budget, Christie told me, his team came to the conclusion that the only way to get control of local taxes and state spending was to go after the pension and health care benefits that the public-sector unions held sacrosanct. From that point on, it seems, Christie has conducted his governorship as if he were still a grandstanding prosecutor, taking powerful unions on perp walks with evident enthusiasm.
The centerpiece of Christie's frenzied agenda, which passed the Democratic-/controlled Legislature last July, is a strict cap on local property taxes, which will be allowed to rise no more than 2 percent every year. When combined with a reduction in state aid, what this means, practically speaking, is that New Jersey's townships and cities will have to hold the line when negotiating municipal labor contracts if they want to remain solvent, because they can't rely on either their residents or the state for more money.
To help them do that, Christie has put forward 33 measures that are part of what he calls his ''toolkit'' for reform. These include, for instance, a proposal that would allow localities to opt out of the civil-service system altogether, giving them more control over hiring and firing local officials, and another that would limit the cash payouts that retiring workers can take for their unused sick days. On the pension front, if Christie has his way with the Legislature, most union members would contribute more to their plans than they have up to now, and all of them would retire later and receive lower benefit payments.
The crux of Christie's argument is that public-sector contracts have to reflect what has happened in the private sector, where guaranteed pensions and free health care are becoming relics. It's not surprising that this stand has ingratiated Christie to conservatives in Washington; advocacy groups and activists on the right have carried out a long campaign to discredit the ever-shrinking labor movement in the private sector, and what Christie has done, essentially, is to blast his way into the final frontier, taking on the public-sector unions that have come to wield enormous political power. More surprising is how the governor's proposals are finding sympathy from less-partisan budget experts, if only because they don't see obvious alternatives. ''I've tried to look at this objectively, and I just don't know of any other option,'' says Richard Keevey, who served as budget director for a Democratic governor, Jim Florio, and a Republican governor, Tom Kean. ''You couldn't tax your way out of this.''
Union leaders, on the other hand, are howling. The heads of the police and firefighters' unions say that Christie's cuts to local aid have already cost the state several hundred firemen and police officers, and they warn that his 2 percent cap on property taxes will have dire effects on public safety, as more towns and cities try to shave their payrolls to conform with the cap. ''I don't think they're going to get it until the body bags pile up,'' Anthony Wieners, president of the police union, warns darkly.
Leaders of the teachers' union, meanwhile, are apoplectic about Christie's proposed changes to their pension plan, which they say will penalize educators for the irresponsibility of politicians. After all, they point out, it wasn't the unions who chose not to fund the pension year in and year out, and yet it's their members who will have to recalibrate their retirements if the benefits are cut.
When I made this same point to Christie, he simply shook his head. What's done is done, he told me, and it's time for someone to tell these workers the truth, which is that the state is simply never going to have the money to make good on its commitments. ''Listen, if they want to travel in the Michael J. Fox time machine and change time, I guess we could try that,'' he said. ''We could get the DeLorean out and try to go back there. But I think realistically that that was just a movie and make-believe. So we've got to live with what we've got.''
Chris Christie is fat. You can use nicer words if you want -- rotund, portly, big-boned -- but it is what it is, and the governor will be the first to tell you so. And because he's fat, a lot of people, consciously or not, tend to assume certain things about Christie -- that he's undisciplined and impulsive, graceless and bullying. (Corzine's most brutal campaign ad accused Christie of ''throwing his weight around.'') At times, Christie seems to exploit this persona. He likes to present himself as the proverbial bull in the china shop, the ungainly, somewhat boorish guy who lacks the artifice to keep from saying whatever obvious truth pops into his head. ''I don't think you elected me because of my charm and good looks,'' Christie likes to say, just to show he's in on the joke.
And yet, to portray Christie in this cartoonish way, as so many critics do, is to vastly underestimate his skill as a politician. The most sophisticated communicators of the modern era hammer at a consistent argument about their moment and the response it demands, and they choose carefully constructed metaphors to make the choices ahead seem obvious -- think of Ronald Reagan's morning in America, or Bill Clinton's bridge to the 21st century. And Christie's communications strategy is about as sophisticated as any you will find in American politics right now.
Take Christie's choice of a somewhat mundane image, the ''toolkit,'' as a unifying frame for his proposals. As a metaphor, the toolkit works on two levels, depending on the audience. You can visualize it either in the sense of screwdrivers and hammers or, if you work in an office all day, you might envision it more as a software suite. Either way, the toolkit symbolizes flexibility and local control. It's a way of saying that Christie isn't putting unwieldy restrictions on towns and cities, as the cops and firefighters charge -- he's just empowering those towns and cities with a variety of implements and gadgets with which to attack their budget problems themselves.
In sustaining his assault on the public-employee unions, Christie knows he has to make his subject comprehensible. One reason that leaders in a state like New Jersey haven't been able to get a handle on pension and benefit costs, despite years of dire warnings from good-government advocates, is that the subject is agonizingly dull and all but impossible to explain. There are myriad plans for all the different public-employee unions, various contribution formulas for each one and actuarial projections that require an advanced degree to unravel.
Christie, it turns out, has a preternatural gift for making the complex seem deceptively simple. Last month I saw him hold forth at a town-hall meeting in Chesilhurst, a South Jersey borough of about 1,600. Chesilhurst is about half African-American, and I sensed more curiosity than enthusiasm among the racially mixed crowd as it flowed into the little community-center gymnasium. An unusually large number of folding chairs were empty. About 20 minutes after the program was supposed to start, there came over the loudspeakers the kind of melodramatic instrumental that might introduce a local newscast, or maybe an Atlantic City magic show, and in came Christie, taking his position in the center of the crowd. The theme of the week was pension-and-benefits reform, and in his introductory remarks, Christie explained the inefficiency in the state's health care costs not by wielding a stack of damning statistics, as some politicians might, but by relating a story.
When he was a federal prosecutor, Christie told the audience, he got to choose from about 100 health-insurance plans, ranging from cheap to quite expensive. But as soon as he became governor, the ''benefits lady'' told him he had only three state plans from which to choose, Goldilocks-style; one was great, one was modestly generous and one was rather miserly. And any of the three would cost him exactly 1.5 percent of his salary.
'' 'You're telling me,' '' Christie said he told the woman, feigning befuddlement, '' 'that no matter which one I pick, the good one or the O.K. one or the bad one, I'm going to pay 11/2 percent of my salary?' And she said, 'Yes.'
''And I said, 'Then everyone picks the really good one, right?' And she said, 'Ninety-six percent of state employees pick the really good one.'
''Which led me to have two reactions,'' Christie told the crowd. ''First, bring those other 4 percent to me! Because when I have to start laying people off, they're the first ones!'' His audience burst into near hysterics. ''And the second reaction was, of course I would choose the best plan,'' Christie said, ''and so would you.
''Now listen, I don't think this is groundbreaking stuff,'' Christie added. ''I don't think this means that instead of being governor, you know, I should be at NASA, working on the space shuttle. I'm no genius. Just seems to me that if you give people an option to get something for nothing, they'll take it.'' Scanning the nodding faces around me, it seemed there wasn't a person in the gymnasium, at that point, who wouldn't have voted to make state workers and teachers pay more for the better plan.
Another thing Christie understands about political messaging, especially when your adversaries are out there portraying you as callous, is that it has to be grounded in the personal. ''If you're asking people to do some really difficult things, which I am asking them to do,'' Christie told me, ''then I think they feel more comfortable doing those things if they know you.''
And so the 48-year-old Christie makes a point of sharing intimate details of his life and times -- that he uses an asthma inhaler, that he has struggled with dieting and exercise since his days as a high-school catcher came to an end, that his mother told him on her deathbed that he should go back to work because nothing between them had been left unsaid. That last one, which elicited audible gasps of sympathy from the audience in Chesilhurst, is his way of saying that he wants to leave nothing unsaid between him and the voters, either, even if they both occasionally get hurt.
''My mother said to me all the time, 'Christopher, you're going to have choices in your life between being loved and being respected,' '' Christie told his rapt audience, strains of emotion creeping into his voice. '' 'And you should choose respected. Because if you're respected, love can come.' She said, 'But seeking love without also being respected -- well that love doesn't last.' '' It was as if some weird brain-switching experiment had taken place, and somewhere, at that very moment, Oprah was giving a talk about state budgets and tax policy.
There's one more piece of political narrative that Christie seems to grasp, which is that every story has both a protagonist and an antagonist, someone who stands for change and someone who plays the foil. Christie never had to look far to cast his ideal antagonists. They sit just across the street and one block down from the State House, in the building occupied by New Jersey's major teachers' union.
WITH 200,000 MEMBERS and more than $100 million in dues, the New Jersey Education Association is easily the most powerful union in New Jersey and one of the more powerful local unions in the country. In Trenton, the union's organizing might -- and its willingness to use that might to intimidate candidates and lawmakers -- has sunk a small shipyard of promising careers. So it's not hard to see why the twilight struggle between Chris Christie and ''the bully of State Street,'' as he likes to refer to the teachers' union, has transfixed New Jersey's political observers for the last year. It's as mesmerizing as an episode of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey,'' only harder to watch, mostly because Christie can be so unrelentingly brutal.
''We have similar personalities,'' Stephen Sweeney, the Democratic president of the state Senate, told me recently, when ruminating on Christie's style. ''The difference between he and I is, I have an off switch and he doesn't. You know, if I knock you down, I'll pick you up, brush the dirt off your back, try to build a relationship and go forward. He knocks you down, like with the teachers, and he'll stomp on you, kick on you until he can kill you.''
The war between Christie and the union has two fronts, so closely interrelated that it's hard to separate them. First there's the fight over budgeting issues like pensions and benefits. And then there's the ''year of education reform,'' as Christie has proclaimed 2011, in which he intends to push his case for merit pay, charter schools and the abolition of teacher tenure -- all of which are, of course, anathema to the union.
At times in this epic clash, it can be hard to know where personal animus leaves off and political gamesmanship kicks in. All that's clear is that Christie seems to be winning at every turn. Last April, for instance, Christie claimed to be infuriated by a joke memo circulated by the president of the Bergen County chapter of the union. ''Dear Lord,'' it read in part, ''this year you have taken away my favorite actor, Patrick Swayze, my favorite actress, Farrah Fawcett, my favorite singer, Michael Jackson, and my favorite salesman, Billy Mays. I just wanted to let you know that Chris Christie is my favorite governor.''
In a 15-minute meeting, the union's president, Barbara Keshishian, apologized to Christie for the memo, but she refused to fire the Bergen County president, which further infuriated the governor. If his chief of staff had sent out such an e-mail, Christie told her, he would have been fired immediately. ''That conversation embodies the elitism and the double standard that the teachers' union thinks applies to them,'' Christie told me last month, recounting the confrontation. We were sitting in the restaurant of the Hay-Adams Hotel in Washington, where state troopers and aides with cellphones buzzed around the empty dining room. Christie was in town to headline a dinner for the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. ''And you know what? I can't entirely blame them for it, because politicians have treated them differently than everybody else, because they've been scared of them. And so part of the blame goes on the political culture of New Jersey that has helped to enable this elitist, double-standard attitude.''
The death-wish incident instantly became lore in Trenton and proved politically advantageous to the governor. It gave him a pretense to break off all communication with the union; he has refused to meet personally with Keshishian or her deputies since. And he has repeatedly used the ill-advised memo to portray himself as the courageous victim of unhinged union activists. At least once a week, it seems, he reminds some audience that the union once ''wished for my death,'' as if he were Robert Kennedy staring down the Teamsters.
Perhaps the most consequential episode between Christie and the union, at least as far as public perception was concerned, had to do with the pay freeze. Almost as soon as the scope of the budget problem became clear, the governor called on teachers, who received scheduled raises during the recession, to accept a one-year freeze. He reminded the teachers that a lot of private-sector workers felt lucky if they could keep their current salaries, and he said a voluntary freeze would enable the union to avoid widespread teacher layoffs in cash-poor school districts. Most local chapters of the union ignored him. Ultimately some 10,000 union members -- teachers and support staff -- saw their jobs eliminated. Christie hasn't stopped talking about it since.
The union maintains that Christie's plea was mere gimmickry, because the layoffs would have happened even if its local chapters acceded to the demand for a freeze. But even if this is true, it would seem to reflect a staggering lack of political calculation. Had the teachers agreed to take the short-term hit by acquiescing to a temporary freeze, it would have been worlds harder for Christie to then run around the state demanding longer-term concessions on pensions and benefits. And when the layoffs did materialize, the governor would most likely have shouldered most of the blame. Instead, the whole affair seemed to prove Christie's point about the union's self-involvement, and it enabled him to blame the teachers themselves for the layoffs.
During our conversation at the Hay-Adams, I suggested to Christie that the teachers had given him a valuable political gift by refusing to compromise. ''I don't look at it as a gift to me,'' he replied. ''I look at it as a huge mistake by them, and also a window into who they are.
''Let's assume that they're smart, because I think they are,'' he went on. ''So then, why don't you do it? Because they believe they are entitled to it. They believe they are special and different and that they shouldn't have to share the sacrifice. And that's, I think, what's ultimately driving public opinion against them.''
One afternoon last month, at the modern, airy headquarters of the N.J.E.A., I sat with Barbara Keshishian, the union's president, and Vincent Giordano, its executive director, and listened as they tried to puzzle out why it was that Christie seemed so determined to humiliate them.
''Frankly, I for one don't say we're always 100 percent right on every single issue, and certainly neither is the administration across the street,'' said Giordano, a bald and goateed organizer who has been at the union for 40 years. ''The difference is the tone and the mean-/spiritedness of the way he talks about us. He has made us basically the whipping boy for anything that goes wrong in New Jersey and the country and in Bangladesh if there's an earthquake. It seems that we're just the cause of all the problems in our society today.
''I don't know what he's got buried down there inside of him that causes him to be this totally driven,'' Giordano said. ''I don't think he's really supportive of a public-education system. If he was, he might send his kids to public school, which he doesn't.'' (Christie and his wife, Mary Pat, a bond trader, have four children, ages 7 to 17, and all attend Catholic schools.) ''I think he's not very enamored with public services in general. Public employees, public education, public pension systems -- somehow he's allergic to the word 'public.' Somebody ought to get him some kind of medication that gets him off of that allergy he has to anything that's public.''
The two union leaders made several points in defense of their stances against pension reform and the pay freeze. They pointed out that despite all Christie's talk of shared sacrifice, he refused to renew a tax on millionaires in New Jersey that would have raised about $800 million this year -- not enough to solve the state's fiscal problems, certainly, but enough to restore most of the school aid that was slashed from the budget. They noted that they already made concessions on teachers' pensions in 2007 and 2008, when they agreed to increase contributions by 10 percent and to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62. They mentioned that the average salary of a New Jersey teacher is about $67,000, and the average pension is between $35,000 and $40,000. ''Try living on that in the state of New Jersey,'' Giordano said. ''I don't see why we've suddenly been identified as fat cats.''
In the union's view, Christie is simply trying to exploit the downward spiral of the American labor movement. First, greedy companies, claiming pressures from the new global market, began rolling back the pensions and benefits that private-sector unions negotiated over a period of decades. And now, instead of trying to find a way to restore those hard-earned benefits for all workers, politicians like Christie are using corporate America's bad behavior as an excuse to take benefits away from the last set of union members who managed to cling to them -- those in the public sector. Christie is pitting one set of middle-class workers against the other, perhaps in the hope that private-sector unions will ultimately turn on their brethren in the public workforce, or that the public unions will turn on one another. And the end result will be that everyone loses.
All of this seems to add up to a reasonable counterargument to Christie's main indictments against the teachers' union, and so I asked Keshishian and Giordano why they thought they were having such a problem making their case to the public. After all, according to a Quinnipiac University poll conducted this month, most voters in New Jersey still admire teachers themselves, but only 27 percent have a favorable view of the union, while 44 percent say their view is unfavorable. By contrast, Christie's job approval has been consistently hovering above the 50 percent mark.
''He is the governor!'' Keshishian said, her voice rising. ''People listen to him! You know, he could be in a crowd of people, and they're going to interview the governor! And people, I guess, believe that what the governor says is the truth.'' Keshishian taught high-school math for 29 years, but her grasp on civics sounded a bit shaky. It doesn't seem especially likely that Christie is breaking through because he is a politician and therefore people take to heart his every word.
What the union's leadership seems not to have considered is that public sentiment around budgets and public employees has shifted in a fundamental way. For decades, as Keshishian and Giordano were rising up through the union, it probably made sense to adopt a strategy of ''no surrender,'' to dig in and outlast the occasional politician who might dare to threaten the union's hard-earned gains. But over the last 10 years or so, most American workers have come to expect less by way of benefits and security from their employers. And with political consensus building toward some kind of public-school reform, teachers' unions in particular have lost credibility with the public. Forty-/six percent of voters in a poll conducted by Stanford and the Associated Press last September said teachers' unions deserved either ''a great deal'' or ''a lot'' of blame for the problems of public schools.
And so, when the union draws a hard line against changes to its pay and benefit structure, you can see why it might strike some sizable segment of voters as being a little anachronistic, like mimeographing homework assignments or sharpening a pencil by hand. In a Pew Research Center poll this month, 47 percent of respondents said their states should cut pension plans for government employees, which made it the most popular option on the table.
Some unions are more attuned than others to this gradual changing of the climate. The American Federation of Teachers, for example, which is by far the smaller of the two major teachers' unions nationally, has consciously tried to position itself as a more pragmatic union and has proposed a lot of its own classroom reforms in a campaign to get out in front of public opinion. In Newark, New Jersey's largest city, A.F.T. organizers have signaled that they will work with Christie on changes to the pension and health care system, in addition to negotiating on issues like merit pay. ''Better to be seated at the table than to be on the menu'' is how Joseph Del Grosso, the union's leader in Newark, explained the strategy to me.
But the larger and mightier N.J.E.A. has made the decision to hunker down and fight all comers. And because of that, its leaders run the risk of confirming the public's darkest suspicions about them, whether they have salient points to make or not. ''They may have dug themselves a hole that will be very difficult to dig themselves out of,'' Del Grosso says of his competitor. ''They are on the menu.''
And so this is why Christie has gone out of his way to anoint the teachers' union as the most sinister force in the galaxy -- not because he has some long-buried torment with a teacher to work through, but because the union does a very capable job of representing for him everything about the public sector that voters don't like. He knows there is a risk in using this strategy: he has to make sure his war on the union doesn't ultimately come to seem like a war on individual teachers, which is why he tries constantly to draw a distinction between the union and its members. (''I love teachers -- I just can't stand your union,'' is one of Christie's signature lines.) For now, though, even some of labor's strongest advocates will tell you that Christie has the teachers and other public-sector unions backed up against a hard wall of political reality.
''My politics are union politics,'' Sweeney, the Senate president, assured me when I visited him in his State House office. He reminded me that he is not only the state's top elected Democrat, but also a union ironworker. And yet, he said, ''what I think that public-sector employees have to do is look at what's going on around them, look at all the pain around them, and understand that no one hates them, but they want them to sacrifice like everyone else. It's that simple.''
THE POLITICAL DYNAMIC in New Jersey tells you a lot about what's driving similar conversations all over the country. Last year alone, 18 states either raised the pension-contribution levels for public employees or reduced benefits for their retirees, according to Susan Urahn, the managing director of the Pew Center for the States. Three states -- South Dakota, Colorado and Minnesota -- decided to eliminate cost-of-living raises for state workers who have already retired. (As a result, all three states are now ensnared in court challenges over whether they can alter benefits for current retirees -- cases that could have a huge impact on state budgets, depending on how far states are ultimately allowed to go in rolling back already-promised benefits.) Illinois raised its retirement age to 67, and Vermont, Michigan and Utah introduced ''hybrid'' retirement plans that are a step away from the defined-benefit pension plans that were the standard for much of the 20th century.
Now a new class of governors from both parties is promising to revisit union contracts in order to put their states on firmer fiscal ground. In Wisconsin, Scott Walker, an aggressive new Republican governor, just proposed legislation that would limit the rights of public workers to collectively bargain. ''You can't have one group who are the haves,'' Walker told me recently, meaning government workers, ''and one group, the private-sector workers, who are the have-nots.'' Walker's move led to protests in Madison, drawing President Obama into the debate and raising the prospect of French-style labor uprisings among public workers across America.
In part, the viral movement against public-sector unions is a result of political necessity. In states all over the country, balancing the budget has become an annual exercise in Copperfield-like illusion. Over the past decade, governors have exhausted all the easy options for eradicating, or at least hiding, deficits -- building casinos and adding new fees, issuing bonds and securitizing tobacco revenue. Now, facing a painfully slow recovery and the end of stimulus spending from Washington, governors from both parties are finding that there are simply no more gimmicks left to exploit. They have to deal with what has long been an unspoken reality -- that state governments have made a mountain of promises they can't keep.
It's also true, though, that what used to be unspeakable, politically, simply isn't anymore. It's not as if the problem of public pensions suddenly got so much worse than it was before (the shortfalls have been building steadily for years, after all), nor is this new crop of governors somehow genetically bolder than their predecessors. If politicians of both parties are suddenly willing to go after the pensions and health care plans of teachers and cops and firefighters, it's probably not only because they're out of budgeting options, but also because suddenly they see it as politically advantageous. In other words, not only are public employees' contracts no longer untouchable for any politician who wants to stay in office, but it turns out that the opposite is true; taking the fight to the unions is a good way to bolster your credentials as a gutsy reformer with voters who have been losing faith for years in public schools and government bureaucracies.
This, more than anything else, is the lesson that Chris Christie has impressed on his contemporaries. The question now, and what a lot of these other governors are watching to see, is whether Christie can convert his anti-union riffs into a revised social contract for public servants. While he has enacted several pivotal pieces of his agenda, Christie has yet to pass more than a handful of the measures in his toolkit. This year will mark a major test of his staying power. The question a lot of political observers are asking, in New Jersey and nationally, is whether Christie's argument will begin to lose its resonance as voters inevitably grow weary of the hostility and the rhetorical smack downs. Sooner or later, most people tend to tire of the boorish guy at the party, even if he's entertaining, and even if he has a point.
Christie waves away such concerns. ''When I run out of fights to have, I'll stop fighting,'' he told me. Until then, you will find him out on the town-hall circuit, play-acting, berating and emoting his way toward some kind of public reckoning, leaving nothing unsaid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON) (MM32-MM33)
TEACHABLE MOMENT: Christie on Election Day 2010 with his wife, Mary Pat, and two of their children, Bridget and Patrick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARISTIDE ECONOMOPOULOS/STAR LEDGER/CORBIS.) (MM37)
HANDS ACROSS THE HUDSON: Christie, second from left, discusses regional issues at City Hall in New York with Mayor Michael Bloomberg, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MECEA/AP PHOTO) (MM38) CHARTS: Cost Codes: Of all the mandatory spending increases in New Jersey budgets from 2006 to 2009 under Gov. Jon Corzine, the largest percentage went to employee benefits. (SOURCE: NEW JERSEY'S ''FISCAL 2009 CITIZENS' GUIDE TO THE BUDGET'') (MM35)
Running a Tab: What each household would owe, by state, in unfunded pension liabilities and health care benefi ts if states were forced to pay for their promises all at once. (SOURCE: THE PEW CENTER ON THE STATES) (MM36)
Salary Search: Gov. Chris Christie wants teachers to make bigger contributions to their health care premiums, but teachers say his plan would cost them more than he has stated. (SOURCES : NEW JERSEY OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
 NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION) (MM39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); TEACHER UNIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



690 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2422 words

HEADLINE: Kidnapping. Espionage. Credit Ratings?

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
FEW people ever penetrate the dark side of money, but Jules Kroll is one of them.
Fortunes plundered, ransoms paid, deals cut -- the uncovering of such secrets, and the million smaller confidences that are his history, have made Mr. Kroll a rich man.
It was nearly 40 years ago, when he practically invented the business known as corporate intelligence, that he first came to the attention of crafty boardrooms. At a time when ''private eye'' still conjured images of cheating spouses and seedy hotels, Mr. Kroll built a sort of private C.I.A. and went corporate. If a Fortune 500 company or an A-list investment house wanted the dirt, it hired Kroll Inc. to dig it up.
Which is why his latest venture seems at once so unusual and yet so very Kroll. At 69, an age when other multimillionaires are working on their backswings, he is getting into -- of all things -- the credit ratings business. 
Yes, credit ratings: gilt-edged triple-A's, middling double-B's, ignominious D's. You might wonder why anyone pays attention to them anymore. After all, the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 laid bare the conflicts at the heart of the ratings game. The world learned that the three dominant services -- Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch -- had stamped sterling ratings on mortgage investments that turned out to be nearly worthless. It was a lesson that nearly brought down the financial system.
Ratings agencies, to many, seem like Wall Street's enablers. What is Jules Kroll thinking? This is the man the Haitian government hired to track down financial assets linked to Jean-Claude Duvalier. The man Kuwait hired to ferret out the oil wealth of Saddam Hussein. One of Mr. Kroll's cases, involving kidnapping, inspired the movie ''Proof of Life,'' and plans are in the works for HBO and Scott Rudin, the producer of ''The Social Network,'' to make a pilot for a television series loosely based on his exploits.
Mr. Kroll says that if he can do all of that, why, he can get to the bottom of an investment security, too. He and his son Jeremy, 39, are staking the family name on a venture called Kroll Bond Ratings. They say the business will marry hard-nosed credit analysis with their trademark corporate sleuthing. Maybe the leading ratings agencies -- a triumvirate some liken to an oligopoly -- can learn a thing or two from the gumshoes of Wall Street.
''They never really looked under the covers, which is what I have done all my life,'' Mr. Kroll says. ''If they were in any other business, they would be out of business.''
THE pertinent question for Mr. Kroll is why anyone should listen to him on the subject. The fundamental problem with the dominant agencies, their critics say, is that they are paid by the companies whose securities they evaluate, under the so-called issuer-pay model.
Some small ratings services have challenged the establishment by having investors -- that is, the people who actually buy securities -- pay for ratings. But for all his talk about shaking up this industry, Mr. Kroll is hewing to the status quo. Like Moody's, S.& P. and Fitch, Kroll Bond Ratings will be paid by the issuers, just as the big three are.
Wall Street types tend to look askance at credit ratings no matter who is providing them. Not even Warren E. Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway owns about 12 percent of Moody's, says he depends on ratings in making investment decisions. Mr. Buffett prefers to make his own judgments on companies, he said last year while appearing before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.
But ratings services, despite their apparent failures, still play a crucial role in the capital markets. Virtually every investor, big or small, is affected by what they do. And even the pros have to pay attention, because ratings often figure into the investment guidelines of big money management firms, banks and insurance companies.
Some wonder if Mr. Kroll is out of his depth this time.
''What does he know about giving me a rating on a security?'' asks Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities.
Others aren't so quick to write off Mr. Kroll. Michael F. Price, the prominent value investor, is bankrolling Kroll Bond Ratings. So is Frederick R. Adler, one of New York's most successful venture capitalists. And William L. Mack, the big real estate investor. The venture capital firms Bessemer Venture Partners, RRE Ventures and New Markets Venture Partners have invested a combined $24 million in it. And Mr. Kroll has personally staked $5 million.
That is pocket change by Wall Street standards. But Rob Stavis, a partner at Bessemer, says Kroll Bond Ratings could well pay off. ''We often go after industries where there are significant incumbents when we believe they're ripe for disruption,'' he says. His firm was an early investor in Skype.
Mr. Kroll, for his part, is thinking big -- as he always has. He wants to grab 10 percent of this $4 billion-a-year industry within five years.
But even that seemingly modest goal may be a reach. Moody's and S.& P. each have about 40 percent of the ratings market. The remainder is spread among Fitch and several lesser-known agencies.
''I think it's a tough industry to break into, but if anyone can do it, it's Jules Kroll,'' says Michael Charkasky, the chief executive of Altegrity, which acquired Kroll Inc. last year. (Mr. Charkasky had worked for Kroll for more than a decade.)
IN the aftermath of the Panic of 1907, a self-taught financial analyst named John Moody pioneered the idea of assigning ratings to public securities. For much of its history, the industry he founded was a relative backwater -- a steady if unglamorous moneymaker that tended to attract wonks or analysts who might not land jobs at a Goldman or a Morgan.
Then, in 1975, the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated rules that anointed a handful of Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations. The S.E.C. argued that assessing the safety of investments was so important to the soundness of the nation's banks and brokerage firms that only respected ratings agencies should be allowed to do the job. In the early 1980s, there were seven of these organizations. By the mid-1990s, mergers had reduced that number to three. The S.E.C. has since added seven, bringing the total to 10.
Kroll Bond Ratings is one of them.
It is certainly an uncomfortable time for ratings agencies, big or small. A report by the Congressional panel that chronicled the financial crisis called the big three services ''essential cogs in the wheel of financial destruction.''
But the S.E.C. wants to wean the financial industry from its dependence on all ratings. In February, the commission unveiled a plan to strip references to ratings from rules that govern securities offerings, the first of several such moves the S.E.C. must make under the Dodd-Frank Act. The commission is also supposed to create its own Office of Credit Ratings to police the agencies, although the S.E.C. has delayed that move because of a tight budget.
''It's a bit daunting, but I've always enjoyed a challenge,'' Mr. Kroll says of his venture.
JULES KROLL loves a good story. The bookshelf in his 12th-floor office in Midtown Manhattan is stocked with titles that speak to a life spent weighing risks -- books like ''The Threat Closer to Home: Hugo Chavez and the War Against America'' and ''Surviving and Thriving in Uncertainty: Creating the Risk Intelligent Enterprise.''
But Mr. Kroll has plenty of his own stories to tell. Like the time in 2003 when Edward S. Lampert, the billionaire hedge fund manager who controls Sears, was kidnapped on the Connecticut Gold Coast. Mr. Kroll was brought in to help the F.B.I. and pointed out that someone -- it turned out one of the kidnappers -- was using Mr. Lampert's credit card to buy pizza.
''These guys were real geniuses,'' Mr. Kroll says dryly. Mr. Lampert was later released unharmed.
Over the years, Mr. Kroll has helped to secure the release of about 185 other kidnap victims, mostly overseas.
He clearly relishes his cloak-and-dagger image. In 2005, for instance, he paid $27,000 at a charity auction for a walk-on part on ''CSI: New York.'' He gave away the role so a friend could raise more money for another charity.
But Mr. Kroll has never quite fit the corporate mold. He sold Kroll Inc. in 2004 to Marsh & McLennan, the giant insurance brokerage firm, for $1.9 billion in cash and pocketed about $117 million.
In 2008, Mr. Kroll resigned as chairman and made an unsuccessful bid to buy his old company back. When that failed, he and Jeremy struck out on their own and opened K2 Global Consulting, whose name refers to the two Krolls. K2 provides anticorruption, due diligence and forensic accounting services that compete with the old Kroll. It will do much of the due diligence for Kroll Bond Ratings. (Marsh & McLennan sold his old company to Altegrity in 2010.)
Jeremy Kroll is being groomed for the family business, but his father says he never pressured his children to follow in his footsteps.
''I've seen too many situations where families and business split families apart,'' Jules Kroll says. (Mr. Kroll's daughters, Dana and Vanessa, have worked off and on for Kroll. His son Nick is an actor and comedian who recently appeared on Comedy Central.)
Jeremy Kroll, who studied languages and fine arts at Georgetown, took a series of odd jobs after college. He went to Italy to paint for a year. Later, he scouted film locations and cleaned toilets for a film company before joining his father's company in 1996.
At Kroll, he handled things as diverse as missing-person cases and corporate litigation. And he quickly picked up his father's work ethic: in 2001, he insisted on leading a team into Bosnia to complete a United Nations case that involved finding stolen money in the Bosnian banking system, even though, several weeks earlier, Kroll auditors had been beaten and taken hostage by Croats. ''I couldn't ask people on my team to go there if I wasn't willing to go there myself,'' Jeremy Kroll says.
One of his paintings hangs at K2's headquarters. It is a gloomy, abstract self-portrait that he painted in Florence. In the painting, one eye is muddled over. Jeremy says it represents people who see only one side of things. ''There's always more to the story,'' he says.
Kroll Bond Ratings hopes to pick apart some of the trickiest investments ever devised. Those include securities backed by residential mortgages as well as other ''structured'' products. Such investments, many of them linked to risky home loans, were at the heart of the financial crisis.
When they rated those securities, the dominant agencies often relied heavily on the banks that underwrote them. Indeed, the two camps often worked hand-in-glove.
Mr. Kroll vows that his venture will dig deeper, all the way down to the individual mortgages behind such investments. That would be a daunting task, given that thousands of individual home loans often back a single mortgage security.
''I wouldn't do a rating unless that information was available -- otherwise, how the hell are you going to make a judgment?'' Mr. Kroll asks.
But already, his ratings venture has had some embarrassments of its own. Last year Mr. Kroll bought Lace Financial, a boutique credit rating service, to kick-start his firm. No sooner was that deal made than the S.E.C. fined Lace $20,000 for playing down a potential conflict of interest and failing to disclose steps that led to rating upgrades favorable for a big client.
Mr. Kroll dismisses the episode. ''This was all just procedural stuff,'' he says. Lace's old management has since been replaced. Mr. Kroll has also recruited some heavy hitters from established agencies -- that is, from the same agencies that have come under so much criticism. Among his hires are Jim Nadler, who headed the structured finance group at Fitch, and Kim Diamond, a former managing director at S.& P. For K2, Mr. Kroll has hired former C.I.A. agents, forensic accountants, academics, litigators and investigative journalists.
But breaking the grip of the big three won't be easy. ''It's tough to break into any industry where the three incumbents have 97 percent of all ratings,'' says Brett R. Gordon, an assistant professor of business at Columbia Business School.
Spokesmen for Moody's, S.& P. and Fitch say their companies welcome competition. But Daniel Noonan, a managing director at Fitch, points out that his agency has 50 offices in 36 countries. Moody's and S.& P. are even bigger. Start-up companies lack the geographical reach and industry expertise of the established players, Mr. Noonan says.
Kroll also faces competition from new entrants like Meredith Whitney, a banking analyst who is getting into the ratings business, and Morningstar, of mutual fund fame, which recently acquired an agency called Realpoint.
Sean Egan, the president of another small ratings service, Egan-Jones Ratings, says Mr. Kroll is playing by the old, discredited rules. The issuer-pay model lets companies shop around for the best ratings, putting pressure on the agencies to inflate their grades, Mr. Egan says.
''If a firm is being paid primarily by one side, it's very difficult to argue that they can adequately represent the other side,'' says Mr. Egan, whose firm has investors subscribe to its service. ''One cannot serve two masters.''
Mr. Bove, the analyst at Rochdale, says of Mr. Kroll: ''If he thinks he's going to make his name by knocking down the ratings of one security after another, who's going to pay him?''
BUT if Jules Kroll can deliver accurate credit ratings, he just might have a shot. Michael Millette, the head of structured finance at Goldman Sachs, says he would consider turning to Kroll. In the old days, if a security wasn't rated by the big three, investors wondered why. To many, such securities seemed a bit dodgy. Now, in the post-crisis world, ''that's all changed,'' Mr. Millette says.
Mr. Kroll is, naturally, undaunted. ''I would be foolish not to tell you there is a hill to climb here,'' he says, ''but we're not climbing a cliff.'' He says that the big three agencies lost considerable investor confidence during the financial crisis, and that the sector is ripe for new blood. And, anyway, he says, he would rather be right than popular. ''Our name is on the line,'' he says.
Correction: March 6, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Kroll Bond Ratings misidentified one of its investors. It is New Markets Venture Partners, not NewMarket Capital Partners.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jules Kroll, right, and his son Jeremy want to become a force in rating debt issues, a complicated industry that was tarnished by the financial crisis. (BU1)
Jules and Jeremy Kroll in their Manhattan offices. Jules says of big ratings agencies, ''They never really looked under the covers, which is what I have done all my life.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Haitian government once hired the Kroll firm to track down financial assets linked to Jean-Claude Duvalier, left, and Kuwait hired it to ferret out the oil wealth of Saddam Hussein. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIOVANNI CORUZZI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
 LAZIM ALI/REUTERS)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (89%); BONDS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); CARTELS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%)

COMPANY: KROLL INC (70%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (70%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (70%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: SCOTT RUDIN (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HAITI (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011



691 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: F.H.A. to Raise Insurance Premiums

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
FEDERAL Housing Administration mortgages, the government-insured loans that have surged in popularity in recent years, will be getting slightly more expensive this spring.
The F.H.A. announced this month that it was raising the annual mortgageinsurance premium for borrowers by a quarter of a percentage point -- to 1.1 or 1.15 percent of the loan amount for 30-year fixed-rate loans, and 0.25 or 0.50 for 15-year or shorter-term loans.
The higher premium applies to F.H.A. loans taken out on or after April 18. 
The agency called the change a ''marginal increase'' that would be ''affordable for almost all home buyers who would qualify for a new loan.'' But industry experts say that some consumers, especially those considered marginal borrowers, may now be prevented from buying or refinancing a property.
The annual premium for 30-year loans was already changed in November, to 0.85 percent or 0.9 percent; the level used to be 0.50 percent or 0.55 percent. (The annual premium for 15-year or shorter-term loans, previously zero to 0.25 percent, did not change at that time.)
''It's going to make fewer people qualify'' for the loans, said Michael Moskowitz, the president of Equity Now in New York. ''It's the equivalent of a quarter-point increase in interest.''
The increase does not apply to F.H.A. loans already in place, or to F.H.A. reverse mortgages or home-equity conversion (HECM) loans.
According to the housing administration, the new rate structure would raise the cost of a $157,000 mortgage, a typical F.H.A. loan amount, by about $33 a month, or $396 a year. The agency requires that all borrowers of loans it insures pay the premium. Consumers with non-F.H.A. loans who put down less than 20 percent are typically required by their lenders to take out private mortgage insurance, to insure the lender against the risk of default.
F.H.A. loans are typically taken out by those who cannot qualify under the stiffer down-payment and credit-score requirements of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the government-controlled buyers of most loans.
The housing agency requires at least 3.5 percent, while Fannie Mae typically requires 5 to 15 percent, or more. Last November, F.H.A. began requiring a minimum credit score of 500, and for credit scores below 580 -- a level at which Fannie and Freddie do not back loans -- a 10 percent down payment.
Last year, more than 19 percent of all residential mortgages, and more than 30 percent of all home purchases, were made with F.H.A. loans. In 2005, F.H.A. loans made up just over 4 percent of residential mortgages, and nearly 5.6 percent of home purchases.
Since the mortgage crisis began in 2008, ''F.H.A. has been the only haven for borrowers,'' said Sean Welsh, a senior loan officer at Campbell Financial Services in West Haven, Conn.
But the agency's capital reserves have fallen below levels mandated by Congress, which is why the rise in the annual insurance premium was authorized.
Mr. Welsh said the increase, while ''not too bad,'' was still ''additional pain'' atop the November change.
F.H.A. loans used to be the province of niche lenders, but in recent years big banks have entered the market in a big way.
In fact, Wells Fargo recently lowered its minimum required credit score for an F.H.A. loan to 500 from 600. The bank also reduced its required debt-to-income ratio, or the amount of a borrower's gross monthly income that can go toward paying off debt, to 43 percent. For lower-credit F.H.A. borrowers, the bank raised its minimum down payment to 10 percent.
''We don't anticipate a significant impact on individual consumers from the mortgage insurance premium hike,'' said Tom Goyda, a Wells Fargo spokesman. ''F.H.A. is still an important source of funding for first-time home buyers and those who don't have a lot for a down payment.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



692 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Deciphering M.P.G.: The Meaning of 35.5

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
FOR all the talk of the indignities meted out by this cold, wet winter, there are few indications that anyone is actually doing something about the weather.
In the bigger picture, though, federal regulators are taking significant action on the climate front, in the form of more stringent Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards covering vehicles to be made in the 2012-16 model years. The effects of this effort -- in simplest terms, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions -- may not be apparent in the five-day forecast on tonight's 11 o'clock news, but they will soon be visible on the window stickers of new cars.
In the broad sweep -- the sound bite that most drivers have heard -- the government's requirement for the combined fuel economy of new car- and light-truck fleets has been raised to the equivalent of 35.5 m.p.g. for 2016, from the 27.5 m.p.g. level where it had been stalled since 1990. 
But as anyone who's dealt with government agencies knows, simple numbers cannot tell the whole story. The new standards are a byzantine assemblage of rules, all subject to credits, allowances and exemptions. Even the quick-take 35.5 figure gets an asterisk: that is the Environmental Protection Agency's number, which adjusts for the benefits of improved air-conditioning systems. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's standard for combined industrywide fleet mileage in model year 2016 comes out to 34.1 m.p.g.
The coming standards are the latest step in a regulatory process that began in 1975 with the passage of the Energy Policy Conservation Act after the Arab oil embargo. Its goal was to double fuel economy by 1985.
If you're keeping score, in a legal sense, the new standards are a response to a 2007 Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. E.P.A. that compelled the agency to regulate the emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide, to comply with the Clean Air Act.
The stated goal of the latest CAFE regulations is to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of cars and light trucks to an average of 250 grams per mile by 2016 -- an 18 percent reduction from the current fleet average of 305 grams per mile. Carbon dioxide emissions equate directly to fuel mileage: 250 grams per mile translates to 35.5 miles per gallon (based on the N.H.T.S.A. tests used in CAFE calculations, which yield numbers significantly higher than the current E.P.A. city and highway window-sticker ratings).
While the purpose is to help blunt the effects of climate change, the new CAFE standards will also nudge drivers toward another long-stated national goal: decreasing dependence on foreign oil. Recent tumult in the Middle East increases the urgency of this dream, a target of every president since Richard M. Nixon. And there is definitely room for improvement: in 2009, the United States imported 51 percent of the oil it consumed.
The E.P.A. says that the vehicles covered by these rules account for about 40 percent of total oil use in the United States. Assuming the 2012-16 standards remain unchanged, by 2030, the E.P.A. predicts, greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles will have been reduced by a total of 21 percent. According to the E.P.A., and repeated by President Obama, that adds up, over the expected lifetime of the vehicles covered, to a saving of 1.8 billion barrels of oil.
The E.P.A. also projects that the total savings will be about $240 billion, versus a cost of $52 billion in increased vehicle prices, a projected average cost of about $950 per vehicle. Net savings -- fuel savings minus initial vehicle cost -- will, according to the E.P.A., average out to more than $3,000 over the life of each car or light truck.
These regulations are a rare example of nearly universal agreement among the major automakers. The Union of Concerned Scientists, well known for its concern over global warming, signed on, too -- it actually helped to write the standards. These rules are written to accommodate cars and light trucks of all currently produced sizes and shapes, with each vehicle's footprint -- the area of the rectangle enclosed between the centers of its wheels -- determining its mileage target.
While an ascetic compact like the Honda Fit, with a footprint of just 40 square feet, will be required to average 41.1 m.p.g. by 2016, a bulging Chevy Silverado pickup, with a footprint of 67 square feet, will have to achieve only a 24.7 m.p.g. average.
The new standards also mean the end of separate emissions requirements for vehicles sold in California and the states that have followed its lead. This is no small matter to automakers, who can now plan years into the future knowing that the mileage and emissions regulations their vehicles must pass will not change from year to year or ZIP code to ZIP code.
Passenger cars -- which, according to the E.P.A., will average around 33.8 m.p.g. for 2012 -- will improve to around 39.5 m.p.g. by 2016. Light trucks -- including S.U.V.'s and minivans -- will average about 25.7 m.p.g. for 2012 and will be pushed to average 29.8 m.p.g. by 2016.
These footprint-based goals will be stepped up evenly over the four-year ramp-up period, giving manufacturers time to phase in mileage-enhancing improvements with model changes.
One major reason the carmakers seem enthusiastic about getting with this gas-saving program is that most of them were already headed, in a design and marketing sense, right where the government is telling them to go. Nearly every volume manufacturer is promoting improved mileage as an important sales feature.
The E.P.A. and N.H.T.S.A. have also built in enough exceptions to the rules -- some might call them loopholes -- big enough to drive a full-size pickup through.
The E.P.A. created what it calls program flexibilities that will help manufacturers comply more easily, especially in the first few years of the new standards. Each manufacturer will have its own CAFE goal, based on the mix of vehicles it actually sells. And a system of averaging, banking and trading credits will let makers conserve any extra credits earned in one year and apply them to other years if they need to. The E.P.A. will also let companies trade these credits with each other.
For the near future, electric-powered and fuel-cell vehicles will get a free pass: a zero-grams-per-mile carbon dioxide rating. Plug-in hybrids like the Chevrolet Volt will also be rated at zero for the percentage of miles they run on electricity from the power grid rather than burning gasoline.
Automakers get to count their first 200,000 electric-powered vehicles this way, or a total of 300,000 if they sell 25,000 or more of them in the 2012 model year, an incentive to make and sell them as soon as possible. After those numbers are reached, the E.P.A. will rate subsequent vehicles from that maker on the carbon dioxide actually produced in generating the grid electricity they use.
So keep a lookout at the end of the 2012 model year: there may be a manufacturer or two that needs to push its electric-powered sales over the 25,000 mark and may be willing to take a loss on the last few 2012 electrics and plug-in hybrids to get there.
Manufacturers with limited, plus-size model lines -- Land Rover, for instance -- will be given extra time to work their way into compliance. And compliance will be deferred completely for tiny makers like Ferrari and Rolls-Royce, which sell fewer than 5,000 vehicles a year in the United States. The E.P.A. is figuring out how to nudge these niche makers into better carbon dioxide performance without wreaking havoc in their model lines, dealer networks and fan bases.
What will the American auto fleet look like in 2016? Probably not much different from how it looks today. Simple, software-dependent technologies, like auto stop-start, which shuts off the engine during long stops, will become common. Systems that deactivate some cylinders during steady cruising, as seen on some Chrysler, G.M. and Honda models, will proliferate.
BMW recently announced that a frugal direct-injection 4-cylinder will be available in some smaller models. The Hyundai Sonata no longer offers a V-6 option; instead a turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder is available; the engineers managed to squeeze 274 horsepower from the smaller engine. Advanced low-pollution diesels are likely to gain increased acceptance as they have in Europe, where squeezing the last kilometer out of a liter of fuel has been a way of life for decades.
Simple tricks like grille louvers that close automatically, as seen on the new Ford Focus and Chevy Cruze Eco, will reduce aerodynamic drag at higher speeds. The number of gears in automatic transmissions will continue to increase. Seven- and 8-speed transmissions are now becoming common, allowing smoother driving and better acceleration while reducing engine revs at cruising speeds.
And electrics, hybrids and plug-in hybrids will, of course, become increasingly prevalent as hybrid and battery technology advances.
Will the course of climate change be affected? It will be decades, maybe centuries, before the answer can be known. But we'll no longer be able to say that nobody's doing anything about it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CANDIDATES: Among the proposed fuel economy labels for 2012 model vehicles are designs with an overall letter grade, far left, and variations of the carbon dioxide output, top and above. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (86%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AIR QUALITY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); TRUCKING (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



693 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: Out Of The Basement

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
GREGORY CAPIZZI is a successful New Yorker. He lives in a luxury condominium in the financial district, has a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Hartford and drives a Mercedes.
But Mr. Capizzi, 31, a native of Milford, N.J., is neither a lawyer nor a banker. He is the superintendent of 20 Pine, a 409-unit condominium that features interior design by Armani/Casa, where he oversees a staff of 20, including three handymen, six porters, four doormen and four concierges.
''I wear a suit every day,'' he said. ''But I'm not afraid to put on a sweatshirt and get dirty. I don't run the building like a dictator.''
Mr. Capizzi is part of the new breed of superintendents who have exchanged coveralls for business suits, boiler rooms for lobbies and overflowing key rings for BlackBerrys. Many have the title of resident manager, and in large new buildings they oversee dozens of staff members, supervise complex infrastructure and concentrate on customer service. In smaller condos many still pull on coveralls and answer to ''super,'' but they are taking on many of the tasks once reserved for doormen or concierges. 
''The role of the superintendent has evolved,'' said Dan Wurtzel, the president of Cooper Square Realty, which manages the condos at the Plaza and other buildings. ''It used to be considered a blue-collar job, a fix-it person, but now if I was given the choice between hiring the best mechanic out there who had no people skills, versus someone with exceptional communication and customer service skills for a luxury building, I would choose the latter every time.''
In large new developments, supers -- or resident managers -- spend their days answering tenants' concerns; managing handymen, porters, doormen and other staff members; meeting with condominium boards; and dealing with property managers.
Freddy Almonte, the resident manager of the Setai Fifth Avenue, a new 60-story hotel and condo in Midtown, supervises a staff of 18 people. Mr. Almonte, a 33-year-old native of the Dominican Republic, was an aviation technician in the Navy and graduated from Apex Technical School with a degree in air-conditioning and refrigeration. He then took a job as a handyman with the Trump Organization, where he worked his way up the ladder. His resume also includes a stint as the resident manager of the Georgica, a 58-unit building at 305 East 85th Street.
Mr. Almonte begins work at 8 a.m. He checks to see that all packages have been delivered, that a set of spare keys for each apartment is at the front desk, and that new complaints or e-mails are read and registered. If residents are moving in -- the Setai has been open for just three months -- he looks over the schedule and ensures all the paperwork and insurance documents are in order.
As for his title as the building's resident manager, ''some people will get mad if you call them a super, but I started as a handyman so I'm not bothered either way.''
In small boutique buildings where apartments may cost millions of dollars but the frills stop at the unmanned front door, supers have stepped in to fill the void, doing everything from helping tenants find affordable contractors to baby-sitting their pets.
Michael Steinberg, an art dealer, moved from a classic prewar on Park Avenue and 84th Street to a penthouse at 136 Baxter Street, a 15-unit building at the crossroads of Little Italy and Chinatown. The staff there consists of a superintendent, Brijesh Sobie, and a virtual doorman service.
''We lived in a doorman building and were very reliant on them,'' Mr. Steinberg said. But with their children grown and much of their social life downtown, he and his wife, Suzanne Slesin, decided to move. ''While we were used to more services, Brij has made the transition easy. He is always available. If a guest is coming and needs our keys, he can take care of it. We have his cellphone number and we can always contact him.''
Alex Skreli, the superintendent at 224 West 18th Street in Chelsea, has just a porter and a part-time doorman at his behest. Apartments at the 12-story, 31-unit condominium range from $775,000, for a first-floor unit, to $6.3 million for a penthouse, according to recorded sales available on Streeteasy.com.
''The people who live here have Park Avenue money but they don't have Park Avenue attitude,'' said Mr. Skreli, who worked as a doorman at 510 Park Avenue before becoming a superintendent. ''Still, their needs are often the same.''
As such Mr. Skreli has expanded his sphere of influence far beyond the boiler room. Among the services he has provided: driving residents' children to school when they couldn't find a taxi; keeping on eye on a pregnant resident while her husband was away; installing a fence on the side of the building; installing fans; securing contractors for residents; sleeping in his basement office during the blackout of 2003 despite having a newborn at home; sleeping there again during the Christmas blizzard of 2010; and delivering packages to a ex-resident who now lives uptown.
''Alex is incredibly personable,'' said Michael Chaney, the condo's president. Mr. Chaney, who lives with his wife, Larissa Kirschner-Chaney, and 4-year-old son, Corbin, is the chief executive of an interactive advertising agency. ''We have offices in San Francisco and San Diego, so I travel a lot,'' he said. ''Alex will check in on my family while I'm away, just to make sure everything is O.K., which gives me great peace of mind.''
Like many other employees of smaller new developments, Mr. Skreli does not belong to the building workers' union. ''We thought about going union,'' he said. But it would have cost $90,000 in annual salary, per employee, he said, and for that amount he could hire several workers. Mr. Skreli, who makes $75,000 a year as a super, also has a side business as a handyman that brings in $15,000 to $20,000 a year, he said.
About 75 percent of the residential buildings in Manhattan with more than 50 units are unionized, said Matthew Nerzig, the chief spokesman for the building workers' local, 32BJ, which is affiliated with the Service Employees International Union. Some 5,000 supers and resident managers belong to the union, and ''as the economy picks up and postponed projects get revived,'' Mr. Nerzig said, ''we expect our membership growth to pick up as well.''
Small buildings also often forgo the traditional super's perk: a free apartment. ''In the buildings with 50 units or less,'' said Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of development marketing for Halstead, ''it is becoming more common not to have an on-site super. It is an expensive asset, and even if they put in lesser finishes or cheaper appliances, developers would rather sell these units at market rate.''
In buildings that do provide apartments for their superintendents, the residents generally have to buy the unit from the developer. This can be an expensive proposition: Condo owners at the Plaza paid $3.05 million for their superintendent's apartment, according to property records. And at 15 Central Park West, the board bought the three-bedroom superintendent apartment for $2.13 million, records show. In many cases, the first round of residents pay for the apartment as a one-time charge at their closings. The price of the super's apartment can also be built into common charges.
In some new condos, the superintendents were with their buildings even before the first residents moved in.
''New buildings are so sophisticated, with complicated computer systems and the like, it really requires a high level of technical skill,'' said Leslie Bogen Winkler, a senior vice president of Penmark Management, a property management company. As a result, an intimate knowledge of how a building was put together can be an advantage.
This was one reason that Carlos Irizarry was an appealing choice to be the superintendent of Landmark 17, at 233 East 17th Street near Gramercy Park. Mr. Irizarry, 50, began in 2005 as a construction worker helping to lay concrete at the 13-unit building, and by the time the project, a conversion, was completed in 2007, the developer had asked him to stay on.
''He was a hard worker, honest, and he knew the building better than anyone,'' said Christopher J. Prokop, the chief operating officer of DDG Partners, the developer.
''It is true,'' Mr. Irizarry said. ''I know all the building's secrets.''
White-collar supers are not a new phenomenon. ''In the 1980s, which was a defining moment in residential housing in Manhattan,'' recalled Adam R. Rose, a president of the development and management company Rose Associates, ''very large buildings, those with 300 units and up, began hiring supers that were more articulate and even college-educated.''
Typically, supers cleave to one of two groups, Mr. Rose said: those for whom the boiler room is everything but the front of the house is less attended to; and those who run the lobby as stringently as if it were the Marine Corps, but tend to ignore the back of house. ''The superstars,'' he said, ''are those supers who can handle both.''
Superintendents who are just starting out make $24 to $26 an hour, said Peter M. Roach, the president of the Superintendents Technical Association, a nonprofit group that educates building workers, and himself a superintendent on Madison Avenue. The most experienced superintendents in luxury Manhattan buildings make upward of $50 an hour, he said.
A good superintendent can be an important part of the sales process.
''In a down economy, when apartments are no longer selling like hot cakes,'' said Mr. Wurtzel, of Cooper Square Realty, ''if your building has a reputation for being well run and having a good super, it absolutely helps generate sales. The curb appeal of a building happens only once, and you can either get a warm feeling when you go from the lobby to the apartment, or you can get a very negative reception. That reaction depends largely on the super, and it can make all the difference.''
Nancy Candib, a senior vice president and managing director of Brown Harris Stevens, says one way to think about superintendents is as a part of a building's amenity package.
Ms. Candib said a superintendent helped her to clinch a deal for a rental unit at One Beacon Court. ''The super initiated a conversation, telling my customer all the services the building offered,'' she said, ''and I could see his eyes light up.''
But there are also times when a super is a stumbling block. ''I had one exclusive on Central Park South, and the super, who was also an engineer, ruined it for me,'' Ms. Candib said. The buyer was interested in making some changes, she said, and ''the way the super handled it was very contrary. He could have been more gracious -- and the person didn't go forward on the deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUPER SUPERS: Greg Capizzi, right, the superintendent at 20 Pine Street in Lower Manhattan, changes to coveralls when necessary. Carlos Irizarry, the super at 233 East 17th Street, was hired for his familiarity with the building's sophisticated systems. He knows the place from the ground up, having started there as a construction worker. (RE1)
THE AMBASSADORS: Freddy Almonte, above, super of the Setai Fifth Avenue, a new hotel and condo in Midtown. Alex Skreli, below left, is the super at 224 West 18th Street, the home of Michael Chaney
Larissa Kirschner-Chaney
and their son, Corbin.
 TO THE RESCUE: Michael Steinberg, right, of 136 Baxter Street, relies heavily on Brijesh Sobie, the super. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (67%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



694 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4474 words

HEADLINE: Mommy--Bloggest

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer and the author of the Motherlode blog.

 BODY:
O.K., then, I say, almost begging at this point, almost to the point of tears, is there anyone I can talk to who might see what I've been through and understand? And here's where I say: ''Do you know what Twitter is? Because I have over a million followers on Twitter. If I say something about my terrible experience on Twitter, do you think someone will help me?'' And she says in the most condescending tone and hiss ever uttered: ''Yes, I know what Twitter is. And no, that will not matter.'' AUG. 28, 2009, Dooce.com
The washing machine at Heather Armstrong's Salt Lake City home -- as millions of her followers already know -- is a Maytag. To be specific, it's a Performance series 4.4-cubic-foot-I.E.C.-capacity front-load steam washer that retailed for $1,599 and that she and her husband, Jon, bought on sale for $1,300, plus the 10-year warranty. They made the purchase near the end of her second pregnancy, a pre-emptive strike against the mountain of soiled onesies that accumulate when a newborn joins the family. 
As her followers also know, that machine stopped working a week after it was installed. Instead of washing clothes, it produced electronic error messages. By that time, the summer of 2009, the baby was home, the laundry was piling up and 10 days of waiting for a part turned into 10 more days of waiting for another part, and June became July which became August, which is when Armstrong threatened to bring the wrath of the Internet down on Maytag.
She is one of the few bloggers who wield that kind of clout. Typically, there are 100,000 visitors daily to her site, Dooce.com, where she writes about her kids, her husband, her pets, her treatment for depression and her life as a liberal ex-Mormon living in Utah. As she points out, a sizable number also follow her on Twitter (in the year and a half since she threatened Maytag, she has added a half-million more). She is the only blogger on the latest Forbes list of the Most Influential Women in Media, coming in at No. 26, which is 25 slots behind Oprah, but just one slot behind Tina Brown. Her site brings in an estimated $30,000 to $50,000 a month or more -- and that's not even counting the revenue from her two books, healthy speaking fees and the contracts she signed to promote Verizon and appear on HGTV. She won't confirm her income (''We're a privately held company and don't reveal our financials''). But the sales rep for Federated Media, the agency that sells ads for Dooce, calls Armstrong ''one of our most successful bloggers,'' then notes a few beats later in our conversation that ''our most successful bloggers can gross $1 million.''
By talking about poop and spit up. And stomach viruses and washing-machine repairs. And home design, and high-strung dogs, and reality television, and sewer-line disasters, and chiropractor visits. And countless other banalities of one mother's eclectic life that, for some reason, hundreds of thousands of strangers tune in, regularly, to read.
I lost my job today. My direct boss and the human-resources representative pulled me into one of three relatively tiny conference rooms and informed me that the company no longer had any use for me. Essentially, they explained, they didn't like what I had expressed on my Web site. I got fired because of dooce.com. FEB. 26, 2002
Today the sleek headquarters of Blurbodoocery Inc. -- the corporate identity of Heather and Jon Armstrong's company -- is on the 1,000-square-foot third floor of their sprawling six-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Salt Lake City, where they have lived since June.
In one corner is the glass-walled office of their newest employee, John LaCaze, who came aboard a few months before that move, and whose job description -- everything from answering e-mail to ordering lunch to making sure that time is not wasted because, after all, it is money -- has earned him the nickname ''Tyrant'' on Heather's blog. Next to LaCaze's office is the studio, equipped for audio and video. In the center are Jon and Heather's work spaces, each dominated by two enormous computer monitors and an array of cartoons and kitsch.
Next to the door of the office is etched ''Heather B. Armstrong, President,'' but by her desk is a nameplate that reads ''Heather Hamilton.'' That was who she was in February 2001 when she wrote her very first Dooce post. She was 25, with a degree in English from Brigham Young University and a job at a start-up in L.A. ''In those days when you said you had a blog, people thought you had a venereal disease,'' she says now.
Dooce was a nickname that grew out of an inside joke -- a takeoff of ''dude.'' Unlike many bloggers (particularly women) whose initial goal was to update family living far away, her postings were never meant for her relatives. She wrote of the liberation she felt leaving her parents' Mormonism behind, of sex and caffeine, of dating and work. In the summer of 2001, Armstrong's site was receiving 58 hits a day. On a whim she e-mailed Jason Kottke, one of the earliest online aggregators (whose own site was still a hobby and had not yet become kottke.org) and asked him for technical advice. He linked to Dooce, and her readership leapt to 2,000 daily hits.
Kottke also warned Armstrong that her family would eventually find out. Despite her certainty that they were as likely to search the Net as they were to vote for a Democrat, her brother did wander onto her site on Sept. 13, 2001. The first post he saw was one she describes as ''a martini-fueled diatribe against the Mormon Church'' that she wrote in anger about the attacks on the World Trade Center, committed in the name of religion. Tears, screaming and weeks of silence followed, and for a time Armstrong thought her family would never speak to her again.
Soon she would be in trouble for something else. Venting about work, she nicknamed her co-workers (as she would later nickname Tyrant) -- things like That One Co-worker Who Manages to Say Something Stupid Every Time He Opens His Mouth -- and, in what she considered the safety of her blog, she dished amusingly (and disparagingly) about them. ''I hate that the Tech Producer doesn't know how to use e-mail,'' she wrote one day. ''He's the goddamn TECH Producer, for crying out loud. I hate that one of the 10 vice presidents in this 30-person company wasn't born with an 'indoor' voice but with a shrill, monotone, speaking-over-a-passing-F16 outdoor voice. And he loves to hear himself speak, even if just to himself.''
An anonymous e-mail sent from a generic Hotmail address blew her cover. According to the Web site Urban Dictionary (and an episode of ''Jeopardy!'' last year, as well as the latest edition of Trivial Pursuit), the word ''dooced'' now means ''getting fired because of something that you wrote in your Web log.'' It could also mean capturing public attention for getting fired because of your blog. Her traffic jumped to 25,000 hits a day as her tale went viral. Overwhelmed, she shuttered the whole project, eloped with Jon (fittingly, she proposed to him in the comment section of his blog days before she was fired), adopted a pound puppy that she named Chuck and eventually moved back to Salt Lake City because Jon, too, lost his job in online marketing and design. (He was laid off as part of post-9/11 tech-industry budget cuts, not because of anything either of them wrote.)
Jon found new work fairly quickly, and for months the couple (and Chuck) lived in Heather's mother's basement while they saved to buy a house. Heather thought she was at her nadir in the windowless room, and she started blogging again -- craving the daily discipline of words on a screen and the freedom to explore her emotions.
But before she did, she made a promise to her family. ''I will never write anything that I wouldn't say to your face, with 50 people watching,'' is how she describes the agreement. And that has been her rule ever since.
Readers found her after she returned to the Web, and her traffic stayed steady at about 6,500 hits a day. Then, in April 2003, she announced she was pregnant, and the number of visits jumped again. Most of the comments were from readers who worried that hers would become a sappy ''mommy blog,'' a term just barely coming into vogue at that time. She was pretty sure it wouldn't, because she didn't plan to be a mommy with a blog.
''I figured there was no way I could keep up the writing pace after the baby was born,'' she says. ''In my mind, through the whole pregnancy, I was composing my final blog entry in my head.''
She never wrote that one. In the months after her daughter Leta's birth, Armstrong spiraled downward, hardly eating, barely sleeping and taking many combinations of psychiatric drugs but only getting worse. ''I was out of my mind,'' she would later write. ''Out. Of. My. Mind. Crazy.''
She began to worry she would harm herself (though she was sure she would never hurt her baby). Still, she resisted in-patient treatment out of fear that ''if I check myself into the hospital, no one is ever going to read me again because I'm that crazy person who checked herself into the hospital,'' she told me. Then, one morning, as she watched Jon getting dressed for his day, she stopped him. ''You can't leave,'' she said. ''If you don't get me checked in today, I am going to kill myself before you get home.''
It took four days for large doses of the right drug combination to bring her ''as close to sane as I get,'' she says now. When Jon visited her in the hospital, she gave him notes scribbled in longhand to type onto her blog. Two thousand readers wrote back. By the time she came home, her Web traffic had quadrupled.
There are really good days, days when I feel strong enough to handle this, days when I look at the future ahead of us and I get excited about the ride. On good days I can go several hours without crying.
And then there are bad days, days when I can't see ever leaving the house again, days when I think that by the time I do leave the house again my hair will be past my waistline because how can I ever get my hair cut when the baby needs to be fed every 2.5 hours?? On bad days I think I'll never be able to walk the dog again, I'll never go shopping again, I'll never see a movie in a movie theater again. On bad days I cry all day long. FEB. 20, 2004
The month Leta Armstrong was born, Technorati estimated that there were two million blogs on the Internet, a number that was doubling every five months. Of those, Armstrong's was one of the few -- one of the earliest -- successful personal narratives. It was a life lived as a cautionary tale. A daily reality show on a smaller screen. Readers had already shown they would click through for breaking news, Hollywood gossip and techie inside dirt. Now they were showing that they'd also come to hear a blogger say what others might have thought, or feared, or wondered, but had kept to themselves.
It was the start of an explosion, a meeting of 18th-century journaling, 19th-century magazine serials and the intimate universality of cyberspace. Click almost anywhere on the Internet on any random day and you will find yourself in the middle of someone's story. Dawn Meehan's blog, Because I Said So, for instance, was a funny chronicle about life as the mother of six children. But then her husband walked out over Christmas, and two of her sons were hospitalized with depression, and the family lost health insurance and the boiler died and a colony of black mold was found behind the walls and Dawn needed surgery.
Mama Pundit, Katie Allison Granju's blog, was mostly about her blended second family. But then last spring her 18-year-old son, Henry, who had been struggling with addiction, was beaten in a drug deal gone wrong. After an overdose and several precarious weeks in the hospital, he died. Thousands of strangers followed her grief and rebuilding, as she went on to give birth to a daughter weeks after losing her son.
Before that was Stephanie Nielson, known as Nie Nie, a mother of four who was severely burned when her plane crashed during a flying lesson three years ago, and has shared her story of living in a scarred and broken body. Or Heather Spohr, whose 17-month-old daughter, Madeline, died suddenly of a respiratory infection in 2009, and whose blog has become a gathering place for thousands of parents who have lost babies.
The most screenplay-ready tale, hands down, is that of Ree Drummond, a former L.A. party girl who met a cowboy in an Oklahoma bar on a visit home and became a ranch wife a year and a half later. They now have four children, whom Drummond home-schools while raising cattle and chronicling it all on The Pioneer Woman, which she began on a whim in 2006. The site is a down-home smorgasbord of photos, anecdotes and recipes, and for more than a year it included installments of the story of how she and her husband met and married. She has just compiled those into a book titled ''The Pioneer Woman: Black Heels to Tractor Wheels.'' Reese Witherspoon has expressed interest in playing Drummond in the movie.
Among women who blog, Drummond and Armstrong are at the top. There are almost as many ways to measure reader traffic as their are blogs right now, but Nielsen estimates that Dooce sometimes has as many as six million visitors a month, and Pioneer Woman is in the same range. Both bloggers have best-selling books: ''It Sucked and Then I Cried'' is Armstrong's story of postpartum depression; ''The Pioneer Woman Cooks'' is Drummond's first book, a cookbook illustrated with photos of food and cowboys, including rear views of her husband, clad in Wranglers and chaps as he bucks broncos and brands calves.
Having a tale to tell is only the first step, of course. Still evolving is the art of making a living from that tale. Heather and Jon both worked in online marketing, yet they were hesitant about adding advertising to Dooce early on. More specifically, it was Heather who hesitated. She feared ''selling out'' and the reaction from readers. But after her postpartum breakdown, her therapist prescribed that she hire a baby-sitter to come every day. Ads became a way to pay for child care.
The Armstrongs started small at the end of 2004, with Google ads (the kind that appear on registered sites and pay anywhere from a few pennies to a few dollars, depending on Web traffic). Before long they had contracted with an agency that actively sought display advertisers, making Dooce the first personal Web site to accept significant advertising. When monthly income from the blog exceeded Jon's paycheck for the same period, he quit his job to manage the business.
Armstrong's readers responded as she'd feared. ''They screamed, 'Who do you think you are?' '' she remembers. '' 'What made you important enough to make money on your Web site?' ''
It is a question that hovers over all personal blogs -- if they are based on trust, do you violate that trust by introducing commerce? Readers of personal blogs return again and again for the connection, the feeling they really know the writer -- and ads can break the ''we're all friends here'' mood.
''At its best we are seeing the empowerment of women,'' says Elisa Camahort Page, a co-founder of BlogHer, one of the leading ad-placement companies for blogs. ''They can turn something they love into something that brings income into their household. But that has to be done with care.''
Amy Oztan, who blogs at SelfishMom.com, is particularly transparent when it comes to her sponsors. She has a lot of them -- companies who pay her, in money or in product, to advertise on her site or to mention them. Oztan has an entire section explaining how she makes her money, including an extensive index of tabs she uses to alert readers to the economics of everything she writes. It starts with Level 1 -- ''The product or service mentioned was provided to Amy free of charge (or at a considerable discount not available to the public)'' -- and goes up to Level 13: ''This is a sponsored post. Amy was compensated to write this post. While Amy's opinions in the post are authentic, talking points may have been suggested by the sponsor.'' In between these extremes are compensation for inserting links to a certain Web site, attending an event or administering a product giveaway. Which pretty much explains why, between daily witticisms, she so regularly describes how she offered Kleenex to the woman next to her at a conference or placed her HTC HD7 Windows phone on the tray table next to her when she lucked into an empty row on her last plane trip.
Others are not quite as comfortable making their Web pages into billboards. Drummond's site carries ads but runs giveaways only of items that she pays for herself; she does not accept direct sponsorships (that is, ads with her photo) because she worries that this is at odds with a Web site about ''the simple life on a ranch.'' True, she does write periodically about how the only thing missing from that life is a venti caramel Starbucks latte, but Starbucks does not pay her to say it.
Drummond works with Blog/Her, which sells ad space on parenting sites in bundles. Armstrong in turn works with Federated Media, which bundles as well and also charges some companies a premium to appear specifically on Dooce.com. A key advertiser is Suave shampoo, and a Suave banner ad with Armstrong's photo sometimes appears at the top of the site. Suave also sponsors a ''Community'' section, where readers can interact more extensively. This summer, the renovation of the office was sponsored by Verizon, and Jon shot a series of videos of Heather describing the new furniture and the computer wiring. Each one ran as a post on the site, opening and closing with the Verizon logo. Part of the deal was that the Armstrongs had to switch from iPhones to Droids during the renovation. When the sponsorship ended this fall, Heather and Jon immediately went back to their beloved ATT-powered phones.
Is the commercialism turning off readers? Yes and no. Being powerful on the Internet is an odd and contrary state. ''Influential'' can mean strangers love you, but it is just as likely to mean that they hate you. What it really means is that they read you. And if you infuriate some and have others rising to your defense, all the better. When your fans and your critics tangle in the intimate anonymity of your comments section, that ups your page views and, in turn, your ad rates.
Good for business, but the criticism can feel very personal. Because on a personal Web site, it is. And as Armstrong's impact grows, so does readers' anger -- and so, too, her creative ways of turning the critics to her advantage. Take the Maytag incident. After getting no satisfaction from her washing-machine company, Armstrong did take to Twitter. Then she fielded frantic, apologetic calls from Maytag and not only got her washing machine fixed but also had a second one donated by a different company to a nearby women's shelter (that one was a Bosch). She wrote about it all on her blog, and many readers got very angry. ''The mommy-blog community was up in arms, because I was wielding my power in an irresponsible way and I would cause people at Maytag to lose their jobs,'' she says. ''And then there was a discussion about my sense of entitlement and my narcissism. Do I think I can rule the world with my finger on Twitter? And why don't I ever use my power for good? Or give back to my community?''
The anger, in turn, upped her page views. ''Heather was huge,'' Jon said. ''It was the biggest thing she'd ever done in terms of traffic. Bigger than going on 'Oprah.' Bigger than giving birth to Marlo'' -- the Armstrongs' second daughter. ''I mean, Marlo was good for business, but the hate was better.''
All this came while she was caring for a newborn, and also suffering with a painful case of shingles and distraught over her grandmother's imminent death. So one morning, after reading, yet again, about the pointiness of her chin, she fought back. She had Jon create a new section of Dooce, with a new and separate ad base, where she posted her hate mail and invited readers to scroll through. As they scrolled, the ad revenue accumulated.
The Armstrongs won't say how much money they made from the hate, just that it was ''a large, large sum.'' Heather says they gave most of it away at Christmas in 2009, paying the past-due mortgage for a neighbor who was struggling, and treating Heather's sister, who'd never had her hair done professionally, to a cut and color. They made donations to the women's shelter where they sent the new washing machine. And they didn't write a word about that on the blog.
I mean, we've sort of got a rhythm going, one where the drummer and guitarist are playing two different songs, and the lead singer is just making up words as it goes along, and the sound is just awful but we're calling it ''art.'' JULY 20, 2009
Lunch at Blurbodoocery Inc. is a family affair -- Heather and Jon, 18-month-old Marlo, LaCaze, and Heather's cousin McKenzie (who baby-sits for Marlo during the day, and for 7-year-old Leta when she is home from school), all gathered around the table in the stone-and-glass kitchen. The ability to blur home and work is one reason they bought this house when the company began to burst the seams of their smaller one. They considered just renting office space, as most start-ups do when they grow. But ''my life is the business,'' Armstrong says. ''It wouldn't work without the chaos nearby, without being able to wear my workout clothes all day and nap on the bed with the dogs.''
On a frigid day in December, Leta was home for Christmas break, and a classmate was over. While we adults (and Marlo) cheered them on, the first graders played with the Xbox Kinect -- an advertiser on Dooce -- running in place while their avatars raced on the screen. Leta was losing, again and again. Her frustration grew and then spilled over, until the little girl was on the floor in tears.
Armstrong tried joking with Leta, then hugging her, then distracting the two children with another game that didn't require as much coordination. Noticing that I'd been taking notes during the meltdown, Armstrong winced but didn't ask me to stop. ''It's all fodder,'' she said. ''It's all material.''
Or is it? It's true that the most-trafficked personal bloggers appear to have few boundaries, in part because so many found their followers, and their voices, in times of crisis. Yet the most successful of the genre, the women who manage to turn this into a living, or at least part of one, pull off the neat trick of seeming to share more than they do. ''Nobody reveals every piece of themselves online,'' Drummond says. ''It's not really inventing a personality as much as shying away from certain subjects.''
She will casually mention the ''self-diagnosed'' agoraphobia that makes it an ordeal to leave the ranch, for instance, but she will not allow herself to become ''a poster child'' for that cause. She will talk about her husband the cowboy, and their country lifestyle, but she never mentions that he comes from a family of wealthy ranchers. And while her relationship is best known to her readers for its Harlequin-steamy romance, there are no actual sex scenes in the 40-chapter online version of the serial. ''Hanky-panky is off-limits'' she says. Her rule is that if she would not talk to her sister about something, she won't write about it on her blog -- and she wouldn't dream of talking to her sister about her sex life.
Armstrong talks far more openly about, well, everything, but look closely, and even she is practicing restraint. She is circumspect about mentioning either her own or Jon's family, who have made it clear they prefer not to be discussed on Dooce. And lately she writes far less often about her oldest daughter, Leta. In a post last summer, Armstrong explained (without actually saying so directly) that Leta was acting like a door-slamming, eye-rolling teenager -- years ahead of schedule.
I think it's a combination of reasons why I've started writing less about her. One, she expressed displeasure at having her picture taken several months ago, and now she actually runs out of the room when I break out a camera. Two, I didn't expect our relationship to become so complicated so early in her life. In fact, I thought that some of what is going on in our house wasn't going to happen for another 10 years. But here it is, and the level of complexity is not really something I want to talk about publicly. . . . For the last several months, if I have mentioned Leta here, I have most likely asked her if I could do so, even if it has been something totally innocuous. I intend to practice this going forward, so I guess maybe I am censored to some extent. Ha! Look, Leta! You're more powerful than Verizon! AUG. 9, 2010
It is perversely fitting that the child whose birth was the catalyst for Dooce now shies away from having her life chronicled. But it's hardly surprising. Armstrong says she has always known that babies' tales belong to their parents, then as they grow, ownership shifts. She wishes it were otherwise -- the sharing that got her through postpartum depression would sure be helpful when dealing with a moody teenager. It would also be great material. How do you keep readers coming back while also keeping things to yourself?
There was a hint of the changing balancing act in mid-February, when Jon landed in the hospital because he was experiencing shortness of breath. Heather chronicled it all on Twitter and Dooce. She shared her fears. She cracked a few jokes. But she told readers only that the diagnosis turned out to be ''inconclusive.'' (She left it to Jon to point out on his blog that it might have been a side effect of new depression medication.) In other words, she will write about Leta . . . but not really. She will tell readers something is going on . . . but not what. She will let strangers feel as if they know what she is going through . . . but not completely. It's a sleight of hand that seems a necessary part of this evolution from online diary to online business.
''This is where Heather has become a master,'' Jon told me earlier when I asked him whether a blog like Heather's was sustainable as children grow up and families tire of the magnifying lens. ''She has the ability to take a single episode and turn it into an epic, and then, if you go word by word and ask, 'What did she reveal?' it's really not very much. David Sedaris once said that his stories are 'true enough.' Blogs, the ones that last, are also 'true enough.' ''
Online Correction: February 23, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the book titles ''The Pioneer Woman: Black Heels to Tractor Wheels'' and ''The Pioneer Woman.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM41)
 THE HOME OFFICE: Leta (airborne), Heather and Marlo and Jon, the staff and inspiration of Dooce.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHERINE LEDNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (60%); DEPRESSION (50%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (50%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (76%) UTAH, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



695 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Emanuel Has a Tough Row to Hoe, but Far From an Impossible One

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Rahm Emanuel's honeymoon was shorter than a Jon Burge homicide interrogation, ending in about three hours, when The Chicago Sun-Times greeted him with a portentous post-election headline: ''Big problems, painful solutions could seal Emanuel's fate as one-termer.''
The story encapsulated an alluring theory: Doom beckons if Mr. Emanuel doesn't largely solve ills of the budget, underfunded pensions, schools, police, City Council, mass transit and even a policy-averse press corps accustomed to unscripted venting perfect for sound bites. 
But, as I watched him announce his transition team Thursday, I recalled a little history that softened the apocalyptic visions.
For starters, he has nearly two months to prepare for office and to exploit a prodigious Rolodex to find a smart, diverse and creative group of leaders. By comparison, Mayor Richard M. Daley was elected on April, 4, 1989, and took office 20 days later.
Mr. Daley arrived at City Hall amid racial and political disharmony that inspired the nickname Beirut by the Lake. He didn't win a single black ward, Mayor Eugene Sawyer left behind a talent-short government hiding deficits, and Mr. Daley was forced to make immediate 7 percent budget cuts, though smaller ones for the police, fire and sanitation.
The city, in Rust Belt decline, was not yet a magnet for armies of ambitious college graduates. Soon after Mr. Daley's arrival, Sears Roebuck & Company left for the suburbs. The homicide rate was twice that of today.
Even with a pedigree of political royalty, Mr. Daley didn't have Mr. Emanuel's connections. He had solid professional and business contacts, but it was a different talent pool and economy, dominated by an older corporate universe -- not the more intellectually vibrant world of Groupon and both hedge fund and private-equity zillionaires to whom Mr. Emanuel is tied.
Mr. Daley didn't inherit debates as to whether Chicago was the fifth- or sixth-most-important city globally. The discussion was more about how fast it was sinking.
Fortunately for Mr. Daley, the national economy turned in his favor and revenue came from the city's share of increases in the state income tax and federal gas tax, money for the police and community block grants. That's a far cry from today's recession, awful unemployment and scant help from Washington or Springfield (the new state tax increase doesn't bring a city share).
Mr. Daley also benefited from low expectations. Mike Royko, a king of newspaper columnists, wondered ''whether he's got the brains to tie his shoes.''
The bar is higher for Mr. Emanuel. Still, our judgment as voters may not reflect the obsessions of journalists, like the budget and underfunded pensions -- at least not until they have a palpable impact on daily lives.
His broad challenges are important, for sure. But history suggests he had best concentrate too on the more everyday matters that can make a great mayor.
There will be rancor if, for example, he takes on the teachers over pay and hours, though we wait to see if campaign hints of toughness translate into action behind closed doors at fish-or-cut-bait moments. And even if he waffles, in the presumed name of fair-mindedness, he could be fine politically if he is sensitive to something as simple as the quality of life in our neighborhoods.
Liberal Democrats detested Rudolph W. Giuliani when he was elected mayor of New York but were soon nodding their heads as he enforced minor ordinances against street noise in residential areas and against the squeegee men who stopped traffic to clean windshields and solicit money.
His stock ultimately fell, but it was more because of autocratic ways. If the whip-smart Mr. Emanuel can restrain a less beguiling side -- the unsmiling sense of being the sharpest guy in the room, of a grinding joylessness at times -- he may be fine. Occasional Daley-like spontaneity might not hurt either.
And during the transition, he could even exploit an unexpected, transient treasure trove in our midst: Democratic legislators from Wisconsin and Indiana hiding out in Chicago.
Forget those L stops for a bit and prowl hotel bars. You might find Democratic experts in balancing budgets and benefits at your pro bono disposal. Mr. Daley didn't have such luck back in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); WRITERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAX INCREASES (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); FUEL TAX (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INCOME TAX (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (58%); GROUPON INC (53%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



696 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
Are you watching these protests? You know, it is scary there. They're shouting. They're burning people in effigy. They're marching. And that's just in Wisconsin. 
South Dakota Senator John Thune announced he will not be running for president in 2012. I think I speak for all Americans when I say, who?
This is scary. Economists say with all this unrest, gas prices could rise to $5 a gallon this summer. Of course, the good news is that instead of all this money going to ruthless American-hating dictators, it will go to ruthless American-hating democracies.
DAVID LETTERMAN
I'm worried about Wisconsin. If Governor Walker actually is driven out of power, there will be a vacuum and it could be filled by the Muslim Brotherhood.
CRAIG FERGUSON
I'm glad we have a day for the presidents. But shouldn't we also have a day that honors Congress? You know, when the Senate and House can kick back and not worry about getting anything done?
CONAN O'BRIEN
Happy Presidents' Day. Or, as it's being called in the Middle East, ''Happy Overthrow Your President Day.''
Rahm Emanuel is expected to win today's mayoral election in Chicago. Of course, in keeping with the Chicago tradition, his victory was announced two weeks ago.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: John Darkow: Columbia Daily Tribune, Cagle Cartoons
Matt Davies: The Journal News, Tribune Media Services
Nick Anderson: Houston Chronicle, Washington Post Writers Group
 Steve Kelley: The Times Picayune, Creators Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); MAYORS (65%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (74%); JOHN THUNE (72%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



697 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: How a Past Political Star Became an Also-Ran

BYLINE: By DON TERRY. 
dterry@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
JeNest Murry was not going to allow her teenage niece, Raven, to sit out the mayoral election. Right after work on Tuesday, Ms. Murray drove Raven to the polls. To stay home, Ms. Murry said, would have betrayed the past and the future.
So, 19-year-old Raven voted for the first time. But before entering their South Side polling place, Ms. Murry, 45, asked her niece to cast her ballot for Carol Moseley Braun -- to make history by helping to elect Chicago's first black woman mayor. A few minutes later, when the young woman emerged from the booth proudly waving her ''Thank You for Voting!'' receipt, she surprised her aunt by announcing that she had voted for Rahm Emanuel.
''That's who President Obama says to support,'' she said.
Mr. Obama never officially endorsed Mr. Emanuel, his former chief of staff and now Chicago's mayor-elect. But the ''perception,'' as United States Representative Danny K. Davis put it, was that the president had done just that at a White House farewell for Mr. Emanuel. 
''I've never seen so many people caught up in thinking they were doing the President of the United States a favor,'' said Mark Allen, a Braun supporter and longtime political organizer in the black community. ''That kind of imagery you can't beat down.''
Call it the O Factor. But Mr. Obama's tacit endorsement of Mr. Emanuel was only one front in the storm that buried Ms. Braun. Once a national political superstar as the first black woman elected to the United States Senate, Ms. Braun finished in fourth place in the Chicago mayoral race with 9 percent of the vote. Her campaign was besieged by a lack of money, internal strife, voter indifference -- more than half the city's electorate stayed home -- and by the missteps of a candidate who clearly had been out of politics for too long. The rust showed when she initially refused to release her tax returns.
The shellacking of Ms. Braun has sent Chicago's black political empowerment movement reeling.
''There's going to be a lot of second-guessing after this,'' said Hermene Hartman, the black publisher of N'Digo magazine, who broke ranks with a coalition of black leaders to endorse Mr. Emanuel. ''Did we pick the right consensus candidate? I don't think so.''
Even among the coalition of black business, community and religious leaders that eventually anointed Ms. Braun after a long and messy process, support for her was always fragile, Ms. Hartman said.
''The community was just too splintered,'' she said. ''Everybody was talking one thing and doing another. Everybody was with Rahm but talking Carol. You knew damn well they weren't going to raise any money for Carol.''
In the end, the chairman of the coalition, Alderman Walter Burnett, did not even support Ms. Braun. Instead he decided not to endorse anyone after his political mentor, the Illinois secretary of state, Jesse White, endorsed Mr. Emanuel. Ms. Braun did not win a single black ward -- or any ward.
There were signs of trouble early when Ms. Braun's campaign hired Victor Reyes, a former top aide to Mayor Richard M. Daley, and Mike Noonan, a former campaign operative for Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan. The move outraged South Side grassroots organizers.
Even with the two experienced political operatives on board, Ms. Braun's campaign was uninspired and plagued by mis-steps. Perhaps the biggest was her accusation that another black candidate, Patricia Van Pelt Watkins, had used crack cocaine. Ms. Watkins said she had once had a cocaine addiction but had been clean for 30 years.
Ms. Braun eventually apologized for the comment, but by then she had been exposed as an out-of-touch elitist in the eyes of many black voters, said Salim Muwakkil, an editor and writer for In These Times magazine and a talk-show host on the radio station WVON, which caters to a largely black audience.
''Drug problems, and overcoming them, are part of the life story of too many black people,'' Mr. Muwakkil said. ''That remark upset a lot of people. The class divisions in the black community are real.''
But lack of money was at the top of the list of what went wrong.
The Braun campaign could never afford a serious media blitz. Despite promises of hefty campaign contributions, some of the city's black business leaders kept their hands in their pockets. Among the few exceptions were Elzie Higginbottom, a real estate developer, and John Rogers Jr., founder of Ariel Investments, whom Ms. Braun, on election night, called ''the bravest businessman in the city of Chicago,'' for supporting her and standing up to ''extreme pressure.''
She managed to raise roughly $550,000. Mr. Emanuel raised about $800,000 from donors with Southern Californian addresses alone and amassed a total of nearly $12 million.
Mr. Davis, the West Side congressman and an early consensus black candidate, received a telephone call from a group of black business leaders on Dec. 30, the day before he announced that he was dropping out of the mayoral race.
''They said they were going to raise $2 million and that they decided they were going to support Carol Moseley Braun,'' Mr. Davis said in an interview Thursday.
Mr. Davis said it was a courtesy call and no one ever ''suggested or implied'' that he should drop out to make room for Ms. Braun. About two weeks earlier, State Senator Rev. James Meeks also left the race. At the news conference, both men pledged to support Ms. Braun.
In the end, the business leaders did not raise the $2 million. Asked why, Mr. Davis chuckled and said, ''Maybe it was wishful thinking on their part.''
Ms. Braun said in an interview Friday that the lack of money was key to her loss. ''We had commitments that did not materialize,'' she said.
Tacit and implied support for Mr. Emanuel from President Obama, former President Clinton and Mayor Daley were also factors. ''It was just an overwhelming force,'' she said.
The timing of Braun's loss comes at a tough time for the black community. Unemployment in some black neighborhoods is two or three times the national average, Chicago and its schools remain segregated, the percentage of city contracts awarded to black businesses hovers in the low single digits, and tens of thousands of black families have moved from the city.
''African-Americans in this town are in crisis in every way,'' said Robert T. Starks, a professor of political science at Northeastern Illinois University. ''This community is at one of its lowest depths. Our reputation as a vanguard political community is in danger of being squashed.''
Ms. Murry, whose niece voted for Mr. Emanuel, spent election night at Ms. Braun's headquarters at the Parkway Ballroom on the South Side. She joined in on one last chant of ''Carol, Carol, Carol'' when the candidate came out to concede defeat.
''We will continue to advocate for government that serves the needs of all the people,'' Ms. Braun said in her speech. ''We will continue to make the case that the homeless and the hungry and the unemployed deserve our attention and our support as much as LaSalle Street.''
''It's a sad night,'' Ms. Murry said after Ms. Braun had left the stage. ''I didn't think Carol's numbers would be so low.''
Ms. Murry put on her coat. The party was over. The wake was just beginning.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carol Moseley Braun did some election-day campaigning near the L at State Street and Lake Avenue. She received 9 percent of the vote.
 A Braun supporter outside a polling place on Election Day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WOMEN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); RACE & RACISM (70%); CELEBRITIES (69%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); DANNY K DAVIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



698 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BRIGHT IDEAS: UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Carrots, Sticks and Digital Health Records

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE United States is embarking this year on a grand experiment in the government-driven adoption of technology -- ambitious, costly and potentially far-reaching in impact. The goal is to improve health care and to reduce its long-term expense by moving the doctors and hospitals from ink and paper into the computer age -- through a shift to digital patient records.
Step back from the details and what emerges is a huge challenge in innovation design. What role should government have? What is the right mix of top-down and bottom-up efforts? Driving change through the system will involve shifts in technology, economic incentives and the culture of health care. 
''This is a big social project, not just a technical endeavor,'' says Dr. David Blumenthal, the Obama administration's national coordinator for health information technology.
This year is when the project really takes off. In the 2009 economic recovery package, the administration and Congress allocated billions -- the current estimate is $27 billion -- in incentives for doctors and hospitals to adopt electronic records.
Now, a new Congress with Republicans looking for budget cuts could take back the money. Legislation has been introduced by Representative Tom Latham, an Iowa Republican, to reclaim unspent stimulus dollars -- and money for accelerating the adoption of electronic health records could be a target.
Still, steps to encourage adoption of computerized health records have had bipartisan support over the years, though only the Obama administration has pushed for big financing. Most health policy analysts say it is unlikely that the legislation will be overturned.
When well designed and wisely used, computerized records have proved valuable in improving care. Doctors have more complete information in treating patients, reducing the chances of medical errors and unneeded tests.
But the success stories to date have come mainly from large health care providers, like Kaiser Permanente, the Mayo Clinic and a handful of others. Most physicians are in small practices, lacking the financial and technical support the big groups provide for their doctors. So it is scarcely surprising that less than 30 percent of physicians nationwide now use digital records.
Late last year, the administration, working with health professionals and the technology industry, set out a roadmap for what digital records should include and how they should be used, for doctors to qualify for incentive payments, typically up to $44,000. The program begins this year, and the requirements for using the records to report and share health information increase in stages through 2015. After that, penalty payments from Medicare and Medicaid kick in for doctors who don't meet the use and reporting rules.
The initial requirements to qualify for ''meaningful use'' are minimal, including being able to collect and electronically report basic information, like vaccinations for children or blood glucose levels for diabetes patients.
The long-range vision is that computerized patient data is a step toward what health care specialists call a ''learning health system.'' That means data across populations of patients can be analyzed to find what treatments are most effective or to get early warnings on dangerous drug interactions.
''Islands'' of such learning networks already exist, notes Charles P. Friedman, chief scientist in the federal health information technology office. By mining its patient data, Kaiser, for example, was first to identify a link between the pain-relief drug Vioxx and a higher risk of heart failure, well before Merck pulled the drug off the market in 2004.
Yet the road to a national computer-enabled learning system, specialists agree, promises to be long. A major obstacle is that so many doctors, especially in small practices, are leery of technology they see as needlessly hard to use and time-consuming. ''Doctors don't want to become clerks,'' says Dr. Isaac Kohane, a health technology specialist at the Harvard Medical School.
And complex technology -- designed for big health groups, not small practices -- could well increase medical mistakes, specialists say.
Such issues, Dr. Blumenthal says, are a reason that the government's standards, and perhaps even the timetable for adopting electronic health records, will evolve and remain flexible.
The government, he adds, is looking closely at safety and usability. Dr. Blumenthal's office gave the Institute of Medicine a grant of nearly $1 million for a yearlong study of electronic health records and patient safety. And his office is working with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop a ''usability assessment tool'' that can be used to evaluate the digital records offered by different companies.
Under Dr. Blumenthal, the office has tried to gradually build consensus on policy and technical standards rather than issuing edicts. However, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, an independent group of academic and industry experts, said in a report last December that the time had come for more ''top-down design choices,'' which it called ''an appropriate government role'' and one that ''requires a more aggressive approach than has been taken in the early stages.''
THIS month, the health information technology office announced a step that showed its preferred approach to setting standards, one that borrowed from the Internet model of open-source software development in an initiative called the Direct Project.
Many companies and groups contributed to the government-endorsed Internet-based tools for exchanging health data among institutions. Developers wrote code and suggested ideas, and a consensus built around an approach that was selected by the government. The design was inspired by the Web, with its minimal specifications that leave ample room for innovation, says Dr. Douglas Fridsma, head of standards at the health technology office.
Without a brisk market in information exchange, the campaign to adopt electronic records cannot really pay off. And more is needed than data-sharing standards and privacy and security protections, Dr. Blumenthal says.
The incentives have to change as well. Two hospitals a few miles apart, he notes, do not now view themselves as allies, but as competitors. To a doctor or a hospital, a patient is, among other things, a financial asset -- and holding a patient's information is valuable.
Insurers, he suggests, will have to pay for providers to share data or penalize them if they don't. ''Information exchange has to be a business goal, rather than a competitive threat, for this to work,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Edna Devries entered information on a tablet computer at the Marshfield Clinic in Wisconsin. The clinic has been an early adopter of electronic records. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In Walsenburg, Colo., the Spanish Peaks Family Clinic aims to complete conversion to digital records later this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (92%); MEDICAL RECORDS (91%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); DIABETES (71%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); TOM LATHAM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011



699 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Governors Fear Federal Cuts May Hobble Recovery

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democratic governors warned Saturday that federal budget cuts could crimp a fragile economic recovery, and governors of both major parties asked the Obama administration to give them more flexibility in running education and health care programs so that they could cope.
On the first day of the National Governors Association's winter meeting here, several governors also said that they did not want any federal bankruptcy protection and that Congress should explicitly renounce the option. The mere discussion of it, they said, had increased their borrowing costs. 
Democratic governors criticized the hard line against labor unions taken by Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, a Republican. But they muted the criticism, saying they wanted to preserve the bipartisan traditions of the governors' association.
The recession may officially have ended but, ''we are still faced with unprecedented fiscal challenges,'' said Gov. Christine Gregoire of Washington, a Democrat and the association's chairwoman. States cut $75 billion from their budgets in the last two years, but collectively face a $175 billion gap between projected spending and revenues in the next two years, Ms. Gregoire said.
As part of the fiscal stimulus package signed by President Obama in early 2009, Congress provided extra money to the states for Medicaid and schools, but that will end in a few months, a loss that Ms. Gregoire said was ''not unexpected.''
''We know there is no new money coming to the states,'' Ms. Gregoire said, but further cuts in federal grant programs could ''undermine the economic recovery in our states.''
Maine's new governor, Paul R. LePage, a Republican, said: ''What the federal government can do for us is not money, but flexibility. We can slow down layoffs in a lot of private and public sector jobs if the states are given more flexibility.''
Seconding that sentiment, Ms. Gregoire said states wanted ''more flexibility in the classroom.''
Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, a Republican, said: ''If we could get Medicaid as a block grant with total flexibility to run the program as we see fit, I would be willing to take a cap on growth of 2 percent a year. Many governors feel that way.'' There is no cap on federal and state Medicaid spending, and anyone who meets the eligibility requirements is entitled to coverage.
The federal aid helped states survive the worst of the recession, but left a difficult legacy in some states. ''The stimulus money was used to start new programs, including social service programs, and we don't have the money to continue them,'' Mr. LePage said. The Commerce Department reported Friday that the economy grew at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the final quarter of last year, and added that spending cuts by state and local governments had apparently held back growth.
Likewise, Ms. Gregoire said Saturday, hiring by private employers has been overwhelmed by layoffs at state and local government agencies, contributing to slow growth in overall employment.
Governors said their economies were still far from vibrant.
''We are recovering, not recovered,'' said Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, a Democrat.
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, also a Democrat, said, ''Unemployment remains uncomfortably high in Connecticut at a number, 9 percent, that we are simply not used to.''
The governors' association signed an agreement on Saturday with provincial officials from China in hopes of building a relationship that will increase trade and create jobs here.
The confrontation between Governor Walker and state employees in Wisconsin generated a lot of discussion at the meeting.
In a pointed contrast to Mr. Walker, Ms. Gregoire said that when she negotiated with public-employee unions, they had agreed to certain sacrifices on pay and health benefits, as well as changes in their pensions.
''I believe in collective bargaining rights,'' she said.
Governor Barbour expressed support for Mr. Walker in his effort to curb collective-bargaining rights for public workers in Wisconsin.
''Mr. Walker is doing what he said very directly and repeatedly he was going to do,'' Mr. Barbour said. ''I support him in it. We don't have collective bargaining in Mississippi. About half the states don't. The idea that this is some constitutional right of the public employee unions is incorrect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Christine Gregoire of Washington said she believed in collective bargaining rights, a hot topic at the governors' meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); SCOTT WALKER (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



700 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Why Wouldn't the Tea Party Shut It Down?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
NO one remembers anything in America, especially in Washington, so the history of the Great Government Shutdown of 1995 is being rewritten with impunity by Republicans flirting with a Great Government Shutdown of 2011. The bottom line of the revisionist spin is this: that 2011 is no 1995. Should the unthinkable occur on some coming budget D-Day -- or perhaps when the deadline to raise the federal debt ceiling arrives this spring -- the G.O.P. is cocksure that it can pin the debacle on the Democrats.
In the right's echo chamber, voters are seen as so fed up with deficits that they'll put principle over temporary inconveniences -- like, say, a halt in processing new Social Security applicants or veterans' benefit checks. Who needs coddled government workers to deal with those minutiae anyway? As Mike Huckabee has cheerfully pointed out, many more federal services are automated now than in the olden days of the late 20th century. Phone trees don't demand pensions. 
Remarkably (or not) much of the Beltway press has bought the line that comparisons between then and now are superficial. Sure, Bill Clinton, like Barack Obama, was bruised by his first midterms, with his party losing the House to right-wing revolutionaries hawking the Contract With America, a Tea Party ur-text demanding balanced budgets. But after that, we're instructed, the narratives diverge. John Boehner is no bomb-throwing diva like Newt Gingrich, whose petulant behavior inspired the famous headline ''Cry Baby'' in The Daily News. A crier -- well, yes -- but Boehner's too conventional a conservative to foment a reckless shutdown. Obama, prone to hanging back from Congressional donnybrooks, bears scant resemblance to the hands-on Clinton, who clamored to get into the ring with Newt.
Those propagating the 2011-is-not-1995 line also assume that somehow Boehner will prevent the new G.O.P. insurgents from bringing down the government they want to bring down. But if Gingrich couldn't control his hard-line freshman class of 73 members in 1995 -- he jokingly referred to them then as ''a third party'' -- it's hard to imagine how the kinder, gentler Boehner will control his 87 freshmen, many of them lacking government or legislative experience, let alone the gene for compromise. In the new Congress's short history, the new speaker has already had trouble controlling his caucus. On Friday Gingrich made Boehner's task harder by writing a Washington Post op-ed plea that the G.O.P. stick to its guns.
The 2011 rebels are to the right of their 1995 antecedents in any case. That's why this battle, ostensibly over the deficit, is so much larger than the sum of its line-item parts. The highest priority of America's current political radicals is not to balance government budgets but to wage ideological warfare in Washington and state capitals alike. The relatively few dollars that would be saved by the proposed slashing of federal spending on Planned Parenthoodand Head Start don't dent the deficit; the cuts merely savage programs the right abhors. In Wisconsin, where state workers capitulated to Gov. Scott Walker's demands for financial concessions, the radical Republicans' only remaining task is to destroy labor's right to collective bargaining.
That's not to say there is no fiscal mission in the right's agenda, both nationally and locally -- only that the mission has nothing to do with deficit reduction. The real goal is to reward the G.O.P.'s wealthiest patrons by crippling what remains of organized labor, by wrecking the government agencies charged with regulating and policing corporations, and, as always, by rewarding the wealthiest with more tax breaks. The bankrupt moral equation codified in the Bush era -- that tax cuts tilted to the highest bracket were a higher priority even than paying for two wars -- is now a given. The once-bedrock American values of shared sacrifice and equal economic opportunity have been overrun.
In this bigger picture, the Wisconsin governor's fawning 20-minute phone conversation with a prankster impersonating the oil billionaire David Koch last week, while entertaining, is merely a footnote. The Koch Industries political action committee did contribute to Walker's campaign (some $43,000) and did help underwrite Tea Party ads and demonstrations in Madison. But this governor is merely a petty-cash item on the Koch ledger -- as befits the limited favors he can offer Koch's mammoth, sprawling, Kansas-based industrial interests.
Look to Washington for the bigger story. As The Los Angeles Times recently reported, Koch Industries and its employees form the largest bloc of oil and gas industry donors to members of the new House Energy and Commerce Committee, topping even Exxon Mobil. And what do they get for that largess? As a down payment, the House budget bill not only reduces financing for the Environmental Protection Agency but also prohibits its regulation of greenhouse gases.
Here again, the dollars that will be saved are minute in terms of the federal deficit, but the payoff to Koch interests from a weakened E.P.A. is priceless. The same dynamic is at play in the House's reduced spending for the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service. and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (charged with regulation of the esoteric Wall Street derivatives that greased the financial crisis). The reduction in the deficit will be minimal, but the bottom lines for the Kochs and their peers, especially on Wall Street, will swell.
These special interests will stay in the closet next week when the Tea Partiers in the House argue (as the Gingrich cohort once did) that their only agenda is old-fashioned fiscal prudence. The G.O.P. is also banking on the presumption that Obama will bide his time too long, as he did in the protracted health care and tax-cut melees, and allow the Fox News megaphone, not yet in place in '95, to frame the debate. Listening to the right's incessant propaganda, you'd never know that the latest Pew survey found that Americans want to increase, not decrease, most areas of federal spending -- and by large margins in the cases of health care and education.
The G.O.P. leadership faced those same headwinds from voters in '95. As Boehner, then on the Gingrich team, told The Times in a January 1996 post-mortem, the G.O.P. had tested the notion of talking about ''balancing the budget and Medicare in the same sentence'' and discovered it would bring ''big trouble.'' Gingrich's solution, he told The Times then, was simple: ''We learned that if you talked about 'preserving' and 'protecting' Medicare, it worked.'' Which it did until it didn't -- at which point the Gingrich revolution imploded.
Rather hilariously, the Republicans' political gurus still believe that Gingrich's ruse can work. In a manifesto titled ''How the G.O.P. Can Win the Budget Battle'' published in The Wall Street Journal last week, Fred Barnes of Fox News put it this way: ''Bragging about painful but necessary cuts to Medicare scares people. Stressing the goal of saving Medicare won't.'' But the G.O.P. is trotting out one new political strategy this time. Current House leaders, mindful that their '95 counterparts' bravado backfired, constantly reiterate that they are ''not looking for a government shutdown,'' as Paul Ryan puts it. They seem to believe that if they repeat this locution often enough it will inoculate them from blame should a shutdown happen anyway -- when, presumably, they are not looking.
Maybe, but no less an authority than Dick Armey, these days a leading Tea Party operative, thinks otherwise. Back in '95, as a Gingrich deputy, he had been more bellicose than most in threatening a shutdown, as Bill Clinton recounts in his memoirs. But in 2006, Armey told a different story when reminiscing to an interviewer, Ryan Sager: ''Newt's position was, presidents get blamed for shutdowns, and he cited Ronald Reagan. My position was, Republicans get blamed for shutdowns. I argued that it is counterintuitive to the average American to think that the Democrat wants to shut down the government. They're the advocates of the government. It is perfectly logical to them that Republicans would shut it down, because we're seen as antithetical to government.''
Armey's logic is perfect indeed, but logic is not the rage among his ideological compatriots this year. Otherwise, the Tea Party radicals might have figured out the single biggest difference between 1995 and 2011 -- the state of the economy. Last time around, America was more or less humming along with an unemployment rate of 5.6 percent. This time we are still digging out of the worst financial disaster since the Great Depression, with an unemployment rate of 9 percent and oil prices on the rise. To even toy with shutting down the government in this uncertain climate is to risk destabilizing the nascent recovery, with those in need of the government safety net (including 43 million Americans on food stamps) doing most of the suffering.
Not that the gravity of this moment will necessarily stop the right from using the same playbook as last time. Still heady with hubris from the midterms -- and having persuaded themselves that Gingrich's 1995 history can't possibly repeat itself -- radical Republicans are convinced that deficit-addled voters are on their side no matter what. The president, meanwhile, is playing his cards close to his vest. Let's hope he knows that he, not the speaker, is the player holding a full house, and that he will tell the country in no uncertain terms that much more than money is on the table.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (91%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DEBT CEILING (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); MILITARY BENEFITS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



701 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Emerging Markets Look Complicated Again

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LATE last year, when demand for emerging-market stocks reached new heights, investors viewed the threat of global inflation as yet another reason to keep betting on them.
That's because the fortunes of many companies based in fast-developing regions like Asia and Latin America are linked to commodity production, which stands to benefit when inflation rises. That would explain why nearly three-quarters of professional money managers surveyed by Russell Investments late last year described themselves as ''bullish'' on emerging-market equities, even as inflation worries began to climb.
Yet after the first real signs of inflation surfaced this year -- in January, consumer prices in Europe and core wholesale prices in the United States both climbed to their highest level in two years -- emerging-market stocks experienced their first real setback since the global financial panic of 2008. The average mutual fund that invests in a diversified basket of emerging-market shares has lost nearly 6 percent of its value so far this year, according to Morningstar. The Standard & Poor's 500 index of domestic stocks, meanwhile, has climbed by 5 percent. 
This development would seem to underscore the growing complexity of investing in emerging markets -- as well as their growing risks, strategists say.
On the one hand, the poor performance of these markets reflects a simple fact: Many developing markets have become a victim of their recent success.
Robert C. Doll, global chief investment officer for equities at BlackRock, the investment manager, noted in a recent report that while growth had stalled in many parts of the developed world, emerging economies ''continued to grow during the global recession and are now getting an additional growth jolt as the global recovery gains traction.''
As a result, central banks in many of those regions have had to start raising interest rates in an effort to curb inflationary pressures -- which were brought about by that growth.
China is an example. In an attempt to keep a lid on food costs and other prices, the People's Bank of China raised key short-term lending rates three times in the last four months.
That, in turn, has held down stock prices there: Chinese equities are down roughly 5 percent so far this year. Mr. Doll noted that even though tightened monetary policies in the emerging markets had temporarily depressed stock prices, economic activity in those regions had stayed strong.
According to IHS Global Insight, China's economy is expected to expand three times faster than that of the United States this year. This would suggest that ''further tightening is likely'' throughout the emerging markets,'' Mr. Doll said.
To be sure, some developing markets that are big commodity producers are benefiting from rising prices. Russia's stock market, for example, has appreciated by more than 18 percent over the last three months as oil prices have shot to nearly $100 a barrel.
But rising fuel costs have added to food inflation throughout the world, which ''can also lead to unrest in emerging markets where they spend a much higher percentage of their income on food than in developed nations,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. The potential for turmoil was underlined last week as growing unrest in the Middle East spread to oil-rich Libya, helping oil prices to hit a new two-year high.
That growing instability served as a ''stark reminder of the political risks in the emerging markets,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago.
Mr. Ablin noted that so far this year, investors have not been rewarded for exposure to greater political risks abroad.
THAT explains why a torrent of money has been fleeing the emerging markets of late. A survey by Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch found that only 5 percent of professional fund managers were ''overweight'' on emerging-market stocks in February, meaning they held a greater stake in such shares than their investment strategy would normally call for. In January, that figure stood as high as 43 percent.
Of course, it's possible that the recent troubles in emerging-market stocks may eventually turn into a buying opportunity. But these stocks have trounced domestic equities for 15 years, so it may take a lot longer for prices to reset to attractive levels.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A supermarket in China's Anhui Province. China has raised short-term interest rates in an effort to keep a lid on food costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (81%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



702 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: After a Record Haul in Maine, Try the Lobster Mac and Cheese

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
KENNEBUNKPORT, Me. -- The dozens of traps that Ron Francoeur pulled from frigid waters here on Thursday held about only 30 lobsters, but maybe it did not matter. Last year's statewide lobster haul -- some 93 million pounds, up from 81 million in 2009 -- was the largest on record. And Mr. Francoeur allowed that he had shared in the bounty.
''I had a very good year,'' he said. 
Mr. Francoeur, who has been fishing since the 1980s, would not elaborate; lobstermen are famously secretive about where they fish and what price they get for their catch. But the numbers that the Maine Department of Marine Resources released this month suggested that Mr. Francoeur's traps and untold others saw extraordinary action last year.
Unusually warm water played a role, said Carl Wilson, the state's chief lobster biologist. Lobsters molted earlier in the year, which meant that many were big enough to legally catch by early July, a month sooner than usual.
''The planets were aligned for an early molt and really good fishing through the summer and fall,'' Mr. Wilson said.
The other, more significant factor -- a lobster population boom that has been building for at least 15 years -- is harder to explain, he said. The decline of predators, like cod, and the state's strict conservation rules for lobster are among the most commonly cited reasons.
''For every one that comes to market,'' said Dane Somers, executive director of the Maine Lobster Council, ''about three go back into the water for conservation. Can you even get your mind around how many we're talking about?''
Despite the vast supply, prices went up too, a promising turn of events after the global financial crisis forced drastic price declines in 2009. Lobster sold off the boat for as little as $2 a pound that summer, forcing many fishermen, including Mr. Francoeur, out of the business temporarily. Last year, the average price rose to $3.31 a pound, according to the state.
That was well below the high of $4.63 a pound in 2006, but it was enough to keep men like Mr. Francoeur, who had to supplement his income with a trucking job in 2009, on the water.
The 2009 crisis might have had a silver lining, Mr. Somers said. The low prices brought new markets -- chain restaurants like Ruby Tuesday and Panera added lobster to their menus -- and forced innovation. The lobster council is heavily promoting lobster in China, where, to the vexation of some here, they call it Boston lobster, Mr. Somers said. And a handful of new companies are producing packaged lobster convenience foods, like lobster macaroni and cheese, with the goal of selling them in grocery stores nationwide.
One such company is Calendar Islands Maine Lobsters in Portland, which will introduce its lobster mac and cheese and lobster pizza at the International Boston Seafood Show next month.
''We're trying to put lobster into markets where it hasn't been,'' said John Jordan, the company president, ''in forms where people can just buy it and put it in the oven and have an easy meal.''
Not all of the 4,260 commercial lobstermen estimated to have actively fished in Maine last year caught record amounts. Jason Joyce, an eighth-generation fisherman on Swans Island, described his catch as mediocre, even though Hancock County, where he lives, had the state's largest haul, 31 million pounds.
''It's very area specific,'' Mr. Joyce said. ''You could be within half a mile of someone who is doing three times as good as you are.''
Mr. Francoeur would not reveal where he planted his 800 traps last year but said the farther out people fished, the better they did. Thursday was his last day on the water until April.
In the meantime, he said, he will hit the ski slopes and repair his gear. He is not assuming that his luck will extend through 2011, not least because gas prices are rising again. ''You never know,'' he said. ''It could be the worst we've had in years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Francoeur of Kennebunkport, Me., hauled his traps from the ocean on Thursday for the last time until April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BECKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUSTACEANS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); FISHES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%)

COMPANY: PANERA BREAD CO (51%); RUBY TUESDAY INC (51%)

TICKER: PNRA (NASDAQ) (51%); RT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (51%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (71%) MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



703 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Leora Klein and Emmanuel Werthenschlag

BYLINE: By AMY SOHN

 BODY:
THE NOVELS of Philip Roth often focus on duality -- between tradition and change, conformity and transgression, privilege and the quest to attain it.
As a granddaughter of four Holocaust survivors and the first American-born child of observant Jews who had immigrated by way of Romania and Israel, Leora Klein was familiar with duality growing up in Livingston, N.J. She was in high school when she read Mr. Roth's ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' the coming-of-age novella about Newark's Neil Klugman, the outsider, and the affluent object of his affection, Brenda Patimkin.
''It had likable, realistic, healthy Jewish characters, bursting with their lives, not oppressed by where they come from,'' said Ms. Klein, 35, who is a writer and tutor and a vice president at the Klein Group, her family's far-flung real estate business. ''I identified with both characters.''
Raised in an Orthodox Jewish family in Strasbourg, France, Emmanuel Werthenschlag was in his late teens and a budding artist when he read a French translation of Mr. Roth's ''Portnoy's Complaint.'' Now 34, he recalled how he couldn't stop laughing and how he was hooked by the complexity of Mr. Roth's characters. 
''He struggles with tradition all the time,'' Mr. Werthenschlag said of the author. In Mr. Roth, he said, he discovered that ''there was something I could be linked with that was not Woody Allen or the Marx Brothers or Goldman Sachs.''
It was at a 2007 lunch for the Jewish harvest festival of Sukkot that Ms. Klein found herself chatting with Michel Werthenschlag, the husband of Maeira Werthenschlag, a childhood friend from her Livingston neighborhood. Her conversation with this man, Emmanuel Werthenschlag's younger brother, drifted to Mr. Roth's novels. And when Ms. Klein mentioned that ''American Pastoral'' was her favorite, Michel said it was Emmanuel's favorite, too.
''I had it in the back of my mind that she'd be great for my brother,'' Michel Werthenschlag said. ''She's smart, she's sweet, and they can also talk about things -- not that liking a book is Criterion No. 1 for making a match.''
The life Ms. Klein was leading, teaching English at a Jewish school by day and dating and taking in the city's cultural wealth by night, was a mix of artistic and traditional.
''There's not a movie or a play that Leora doesn't see,'' said Marc Kushner, a friend of the bride's and a son of the real estate developer Murray Kushner, ''but she's incredibly grounded in the culture we grew up in, and will drop everything and go back to Livingston if her grandmother so much as sneezes.''
Michel and Maeira Werthenschlag began inviting Ms. Klein, an Upper East Sider, to Sabbath lunches in their home a few blocks away. In January 2008, at Tavern on the Green, she met Emmanuel Werthenschlag, who had flown in from Strasbourg for a family celebration. For Mr. Werthenschlag, who had put his fine-art career on hold after a fire in his home in 2005 that had nearly killed him and had destroyed many of his paintings and drawings, it was to be a short stay.
After their brief introduction, she remembered thinking, ''What do I want with a guy who's in from France for 72 hours?''
He found her to be elegant, but, he said, ''She had the ugliest shoes I had ever seen -- huge square heels, like a poor crippled kid in 'Oliver Twist.' ''
In October 2009, Mr. Werthenschlag came to New York for a longer stay, and to mend. He had recently gotten out of a seven-year relationship and had been traumatized by a second fire, this one in the Strasbourg home of his father. (He said, ''Watching my childhood house burning with my memories, even if they are just things, was painful.'')
Not only that, but the graphic design company he had started, Vingthuita, was also struggling to survive the recession.
He decided to stay with his brother and sister-in-law and get a change of pace. ''I wanted to draw again and paint again, find some inspiration,'' he said.
When the couple sought to reintroduce Ms. Klein to Emmanuel Werthenschlag, she surprised herself by answering, ''Any brother of yours, Michel, I would love to meet.''
Until then, the blond, buoyant Ms. Klein was primarily dating bankers and lawyers. But she had come to recognize, she said, that ''my heart is always with the artist.''
She had vented her dating frustration in an essay, ''Vodka Honey, Straight Up,'' published in an anthology, ''Have I Got a Guy for You,'' in which she wrote about how she had gone on a lot of blind dates with ''an eclectic mix of losers, Rhodes scholars, closeted gays, dumb hotties, and very smart perverts.''
She met Mr. Werthenschlag downtown at the Standard Hotel and was surprised when she saw him. ''I hadn't remembered him as being so cute,'' she said of the 6-foot-4, blue-eyed, cigarette-smoking artist. Still, ''I wasn't into European hipsters.''
Both thought the hotel was too loud, so Ms. Klein took him to a quiet restaurant nearby, where they chatted about their families and their favorite author. ''It was like talking to someone who was already in my circle,'' she said.
Or, as Mr. Kushner put it, ''Emmanuel broke the mold, but he could also quote the Talmud and Philip Roth.''
Mr. Werthenschlag said he found her to be ''very elegant, touching and really smart.''
The evening ended with a kiss. The smile he wore when he returned to his brother's home was so broad that his brother felt compelled to snap a picture.
On their third date, she said, she drank too much and bluntly asked him: ''Are you bad news? If you're bad news don't call me. I think I could like you but I want marriage and babies. I don't have time to waste on a French fling.''
Instead of running for the East River, Mr. Werthenschlag considered her question. ''I thought, I have to make a choice,'' he recalled. ''Leora helped me to say, 'I want to marry you' a year before I did it. I started to be linked with the present and with reality.''
A fourth date was arranged, at Spigolo, a restaurant near her apartment. As they took their seats, Mr. Werthenschlag noticed Mr. Roth dining with a friend at the next table. ''I have been on so many dates with American guys who wouldn't know Philip Roth if he hit them in the head with his own books,'' Ms. Klein said.
As the novelist stood to leave, Ms. Klein followed him outside. She said she told him: '' 'Mr. Roth, I just want you to know that we're on a date because of you. We were introduced because we both love 'American Pastoral.' He smiled his half-smile and said, 'Invite me to the wedding.' '' (Through his literary agent, Mr. Roth confirmed the outlines of the couple's story, and also that he later declined the invitation.)
From then on Ms. Klein and Mr. Werthenschlag were a couple. It was not always smooth sailing, however. There were differences of opinion, perspective and background. She described it as ''two adults reckoning with each other: 'This is my stuff, this is your stuff, this is going to fly, this isn't going to fly.' ''
There was also the continental divide. In March 2010, Mr. Werthenschlag had to return to Strasbourg because of his visa's limitations. Ms. Klein visited on several occasions, staying a month on her third. He began to paint again for the first time.
Several times last summer she tried to end the relationship, telling Mr. Werthenschlag, ''I don't think you're ready to have a more conventional life.''
He wouldn't hear of it. ''I had found my wife,'' he said.
In September he returned briefly to accompany Ms. Klein to a wedding in the Catskills -- a place he had learned about from Mr. Roth's writings. ''When I picked him up,'' Ms. Klein said of Mr. Werthenschlag's arrival at the airport, ''I thought, Whatever our issues are I'm not going to let him go.''
A few weeks later he received permission to return for a longer stay. In November, he accompanied her to a play, ''After the Revolution,'' and proposed that same evening.
They were married in a ceremony at the Pierre on Feb. 20. Rabbi Mordecai Feuerstein signed their civil marriage license, and Rabbi Michel Monheit led the religious service.
Their first dance as a couple was to Bruce Springsteen's cover of Bob Dylan's ''I Want You.''
Nina Wolarsky, a friend of the bride, commented, ''She's this unusual mix -- a totally hip and contemporary girl but also completely committed to Jewish tradition, and he's the same way.''
Despite Ms. Klein's earlier plea to the bridegroom that he was not ready to lead a conventional life, friends suggest that in marrying an artist it is the bride who now must face up to a break with convention, if not tradition.
Mr. Kushner predicted, ''They will end up in Brooklyn and have this lifestyle that she is going to adore'' -- a choice, he noted, ''I don't think she would have made for herself.'' He added that Mr. Werthenschlag's '' 'otherness' is a challenge for her, but it's actually the thing that will make her the happiest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MANHATTAN, FEB. 20: The ceremony at the Pierre Hotel officiated by Rabbi Mordecai Feuerstein, top. The couple at the reception, above.(ST13)
 OFFICIALLY A COUPLE: The newlyweds share a moment during their wedding reception at the Pierre Hotel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); WRITERS (78%); HOLOCAUST (77%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALSACE, FRANCE (55%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



704 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING HILLSBOROUGH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: A Robust Menu With Global Cuisine

BYLINE: By KARLA COOK

 BODY:
IF the restaurant Coco-La, with its exuberant interiors and playful format, embodied the effervescent economy of central New Jersey before the recession, then The Maestro 206, which opened in its place in August in Hillsborough, personifies the new frugality.
The beautiful interiors are largely intact. But the banquettes in the sunken dining room show wear from myriad seatings. The servers are friendly, but inattentive. Thumping bass from competing sound systems at the bar and a nearby banquet room makes conversation in the dining room a challenge. 
The food is best described as uneven. The bright spots give me hope that a sustained effort and more attention to detail might elevate the dining experience.
Romin Patel and his two partners promoted Quinton Watson, their grill man and No. 2 in the kitchen, to replace the first executive chef a short time after the restaurant opened. Mr. Watson, in a phone conversation after my visits, said he worked with others in the kitchen to create the menu, a multipage affair that draws from around the globe.
In the category of appetizers, salads and soups, there's a lovely platter of Thai beef wraps, with lettuce leaves for wrapping the tender meat and sesame-ginger sauce (push aside the weeping grated cucumber). The Caesar salad was acceptable except for its almost chopped appearance and a surfeit of dressing. The wedge salad, with its bacon bits, Gorgonzola crumbles and blue cheese dressing, had the primal appeal of most fat-salt-crunch combinations. The Maestro salad was sweet on sweet: Granny Smith apple, dried sweetened cranberries, too many candied nuts and cranberry vinaigrette, with only tiny bits of house-made duck confit.
A plate of deep-fried calamari rings was humdrum, its lemon aioli and marinara trite accompaniments. The house-made eggplant fingers lacked spark. The beautifully grilled chorizo atop black beans and rice flavored with cilantro, garlic and coconut milk, accompanied by avocado slices -- found in the category of ''sandwiches, wraps, burgers and more'' -- was delicious, and at $10, inexpensive. From the same category, we ordered a half-portion of Dr. Pepper ribs, but the kitchen was out (though the $14 item appeared on the bill).
Among the main dishes, meats were mostly well prepared and supporting players almost ignored. The menu promised horseradish mashed potatoes with the braised beef short rib, but my portion was missing any telltale pungency, and there was only a garnish-worthy portion of crisp-tender asparagus and julienned carrots on the plate. The grilled beef tenderloin, a special one night, featured beautifully cooked meat, but, again, there were precious few asparagus spears alongside an appropriately sized blossom of duchess potatoes.
The meat in the Kobe burger was delicious and tender, though the sauteed mushrooms, onions and provolone were unnecessary gilding and the French fries were tough to the point of chewy. Butternut squash ravioli sounded promising with its sage butter sauce, but the crumbled Gorgonzola topping was heavy-handed.
Baked crab cakes were gummy and tasted of filler, but the lentil-basmati rice mixture beneath was stellar, with curry, coriander and coconut milk. Scallop and shrimp scampi flavored with lemon over linguine was heavy and, again, lacked vegetables. When I asked for a side of spinach -- there were no vegetable sides listed on the menu -- I was happy to see fresh leaves, sauteed, though oversalting rendered the dish inedible.
For sweets, choose either coconut or vanilla ice cream, the velvety smooth cheesecake or the best tiramisu I've had in New Jersey. If the chefs and owners could match the quality of that dessert consistently, they would, indeed, be the maestros of 206.
The Maestro 206
150 Route 206 South
Hillsborough
(732) 301-2555
maestro206.com
O.K.
THE SPACE Sunken 60-seat dining room between a bar and a banquet room. Complete wheelchair access.
THE CROWD Noisy and casual; somewhat ineffectual servers.
THE BAR Full bar. D.J., live music and other events on some nights in the bar and in the banquet room. Unadventurous wine list of about 55 bottles, $14 to $98, and 20 wines by the glass, $5 to $8.
THE BILL Lunch items, $8 to $10. Dinner main dishes, $16 to $30. Discover, Visa, MasterCard and American Express accepted.
WHAT WE LIKED Thai beef wraps, Caesar salad, grilled tenderloin, Kobe burger, braised short rib, black beans and rice with grilled chorizo, coconut ice cream, vanilla ice cream, tiramisu, cheesecake.
IF YOU GO Lunch, Monday to Saturday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dinner, Sunday through Wednesday, 4 to 10 p.m.; Thursday through Saturday, 4 to 10:30 p.m. Sunday brunch, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Bar menu, Thursday through Saturday, 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. Abundant parking next to the building. Reservations recommended Thursday through Saturday.
RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW RESIDENT: The Maestro 206 has taken over the location of Coco-La. At left, the pan-seared red snapper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID SCULL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (89%); MEATS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



705 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: First Game of the Spring Doesn't Change the Subject

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -- Manager Terry Collins took the first lineup card out to home plate, hot dogs were cooking on the grill, the sun was shining brightly and a couple of vultures were spotted circling overhead.
The Mets opened their 2011 exhibition season with a 5-5, 10-inning tie against the Atlanta Braves. It was truly a day when there were no winners.
With their ownership plagued by uncertainties regarding its finances, the Mets played the inaugural game a day after news broke that the heavily leveraged team had to borrow an additional $25 million from Major League Baseball in November to cover costs. 
The Mets are also facing a $1 billion lawsuit from the trustee of the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme. The suit alleges the Mets profited from the fraud.
Despite the off-the-field financial problems, on-the-field activities proceeded smoothly. Fred Wilpon, the team's principal owner, observed the Mets as they went through their morning workout, then watched the game from his customary seat.
General Manager Sandy Alderson sat one row behind Wilpon. After the game, Alderson said that the loan and the Mets' liquidity crisis would not alter the direction of the team, which followed an austerity plan in the off-season.
''Nothing has changed with baseball operations,'' Alderson said through a spokesman.
The Mets have one of the highest payrolls in baseball, estimated at roughly $145 million. More than $50 million could come off the books after the season.
Most players said the issues facing the owners did not concern them. But many wondered what might become of the team, especially after the Mets' owners announced last month that they were planning to sell at least 25 percent of the franchise, coupled with the more recent revelations about the $25 million loan.
Pitcher R. A. Dickey, who has been a representative to the players union, said he did not know many of the details and had not read about the loan. But like any player, he has questions about what effect the situation may have on a team that begins the regular season in little more than a month.
''As a player, you have to be curious about how relevant it is to team operations,'' Dickey said.
Third baseman David Wright, who has been in the Mets' organization since he was drafted in 2001, said half the players on the team probably were not even aware of the situation, and said their main focus was preparing for the season or trying to make the team.
''I can't fully grasp a lot of the legal language about what's going on, and I don't understand the full economics of everything,'' Wright said. ''But I trust what the Wilpons are saying, the statements that they are issuing and just trying to go out and control what I can control.''
The Mets spent little in the off-season on free agents. They could try to trade away players with big contracts, like Jose Reyes and Carlos Beltran, during the course of the season.
Outfielder Jason Bay, who signed the last big contract the Mets made, a four-year, $66 million deal that began last year, said the financial problems have had no immediate effect on the team. But, he added, if a player is traded for what is perceived as financial reasons, or if someone misses a paycheck, then players will become acutely concerned.
''It doesn't affect anyone or anybody in here until it affects somebody in here, if that makes any sense,'' he said. ''If that scenario were to come up, that's going to be the bandwagon opinion, and I understand that. We need to see a little more of it before we get involved in that. I have a hard time believing that this team can survive the market that it's in by rebuilding or retooling.''
Out on the field, pitcher Jenrry Mejia, one of the Mets' prospects, started the game and looked good much of the time. As he pitched, vultures soared over the playing field, apparently surveying the terrain for sick, vulnerable animals or decaying carcasses. On this day, at least, none were readily apparent.
INSIDE PITCH
Luis Castillo, who is competing to reclaim his starting second base job, went 1 for 2 with a single, hit into a double play, and looked sharp turning a double play in the field. ''I feel like a rookie right now,'' he said, referring to his uncertain status. ''I have to show I can still play.'' ...Terry Collins said he was thrilled to manage in his first major league spring training game since 1999. ... The Mets announced that single-game tickets for 2011 would go on sale March 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); SPORTS BUSINESS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LITIGATION (74%); PONZI SCHEMES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



706 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: New Mexico Takes Its Chile Very Seriously. Even the Spelling.

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
SANTA FE, N.M. -- There are not many things New Mexicans cherish more than chile.
Not the soupy stuff from Texas or Cincinnati -- that is chili, with an 'i' -- but the fiery red or green sauce drawn from peppers plucked on New Mexico's sun-soaked farms.
For generations here, locals have slathered their food with it, argued about who serves the hottest and whispered recipes passed on from tias, abuelas -- aunts and grandmothers -- and even the occasional East Coast transplant. 
But these days, the state's legendary chile industry may be in trouble.
Despite an increased demand around the country, chile harvesting in New Mexico has plummeted in the past 20 years. Farmers and suppliers say they are being priced out by cheaper foreign peppers and betrayed by impostors who falsely claim to sell New Mexico chile in restaurants and supermarkets and at roadside stands.
Lying about the origins of one's chile is considered blasphemy in New Mexico, where the spelling of choice sets the sauce apart from the more common rendering.
And now, a new bill is taking aim at those who fraudulently assert that their chili is grown in New Mexico.
''What we've got is people coming in and selling chile and saying it's from New Mexico, and some of it is being shipped in from Mexico or elsewhere,'' said State Representative Andy Nunez, a former chile farmer from Hatch and sponsor of the New Mexico Chile Advertising Act. ''We're trying to keep the integrity of New Mexico chile, which we think is the best.''
The proposal would make it illegal to sell or advertise any product as New Mexico chile unless its peppers are grown in the state. The state's Agriculture Department would help enforce the rule.
Indeed, local chile products are good for business here, generating about $400 million annually, according to the New Mexico Chile Association, which helped draft the bill. Renowned for their flavor and heat, New Mexico chile peppers have found their way onto supermarket shelves and dinner tables around the country.
But Jaye Hawkins, executive director of the chile trade group, said the sale of fake New Mexico chile here ''happens very often, more often than you would imagine.''
''If you're from New Mexico, it's really upsetting to see people do that,'' Ms. Hawkins said. ''This is not so much an issue of policing, but making sure consumers can be sure they are getting New Mexico chile when that's what they think they're buying.''
It is also an economic issue. While consumption of pepper products in the United States has more than doubled since the mid-1990s, according to the chile association and New Mexico State University, statewide chile production has dropped significantly. In 1992, farmers harvested 34,500 acres of chiles; last year, fewer than 9,000 were harvested, the association said.
Some suppliers attribute the drop in part to supermarkets, fresh chile stands and restaurants -- even in New Mexico -- importing chile peppers from Mexico or Asia, which can cost 10 percent to 30 percent less than local products.
''We're losing an industry that is part of our culture,'' said Gene Baca, senior vice president for Bueno Foods in Albuquerque and president of the chile association.
Despite some concerns that the bill would be difficult to enforce and could hurt roadside vendors, it recently cleared an initial legislative committee and lawmakers were to debate its merits in the next few days.
At the Horseman's Haven Cafe in Santa Fe, famous for its two levels of green chile -- the second of which is so scorching that customers can only drizzle it on their food -- Kim Gonzales, part owner, said that ensuring the authenticity of local chile was critical.
''This is what we're known for,'' she said. ''And there are many restaurants in New Mexico who say their chile is from here but it's not. It's pretty much an insult to our state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A proposal would outlaw selling out-of-state chili as New Mexico chile unless its peppers are grown in state. At the Horseman's Haven Cafe in Santa Fe, top, huevos rancheros, left, get red and green chile. At a State Capitol coffee shop, a burger gets the green. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) NEW MEXICO, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



707 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TOLEDO JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: As School Sports Fall to Budget Cuts, The Boxing Ring Becomes a Refuge

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio
The new fighter knows he will bleed, and he fears it.
He used to play football and run track at Robinson Middle School here until both teams were disbanded for austerity reasons. On a recent snowy Monday, he flings a wild right hook at the punching bag, steps back and takes a self-conscious look around Bang 'Em or Hang 'Em, a gym that is suddenly overflowing with young, sweaty boxers.
''Every time my nose gets hit, it starts bleeding,'' the fighter, Antonio Ellison, says quietly, rubbing his face gently with his boxing glove's padded red knuckle. ''I'm really scared for my first fight.'' 
Antonio, 14, is among the hundreds of Toledo youths who have discovered boxing this year after the public school system, facing a $39 million deficit, cut its athletics budget. It is a scenario that is being played out across the country, as high unemployment, falling home values and declining tax revenues continue to batter school finances.
Some children, and their parents, are checking out sports that until recently were unfamiliar, including boxing -- and without inspiration from the Oscar-nominated movie ''The Fighter,'' which many here have not yet seen.
In Southern California, ''boxing actually is growing here because pretty much all the districts in our area have cut back on sports,'' said Connie Cervantes, director of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Police Athletic League, which in recent years has seen an eightfold increase in the size of its boxing program.
The cuts to the athletic programs in Toledo were among the most severe in the nation. At the beginning of the school year, the district disbanded all sports teams for middle school students and high school freshmen. It also cut high school cross-country, wrestling, golf and boys' tennis teams, along with all intramural activities, including cheerleading and dance teams.
''It wounded us pretty good,'' said Ed Scrutchins, the Toledo district's athletics director. His budget lost $850,000, leaving Mr. Scrutchins with $1 million to finance what remained.
Some parents said they did not have many alternatives when the sports teams were eliminated. They could send their children to boxing clubs and live with the inevitable bruised foreheads and bloodied lips. Or they could leave them alone after school in neighborhoods that are often troubled by gangs and crime.
''I don't like to watch them fight -- I cover my eyes and ask someone else to see if they're O.K.,'' said Tambria Dixson, 35, a nurse's assistant who pays $90 a month to send her three sons to Bang 'Em or Hang 'Em. ''Paying for it is a struggle. But the kids in our neighborhood who aren't involved in athletics are getting involved in gangs. So yes, it's worth it.''
After Toledo's schools announced the cuts, the city's older boxing gyms quickly filled to capacity. Three new gyms have opened in the last year, and they are now full, too. Until last year, about 40 people used to attend the fight nights featuring boxers from different gyms. The latest bouts attracted 400 fans.
On one recent afternoon, Chris Lawrence, owner of Bang 'Em or Hang 'Em, negotiated to trade his eight-passenger van for one that held 15 people. Ten minutes later, he talked to the landlord of the cinderblock strip mall where his gym is located about moving into a larger space next door.
''For years, boxing in Toledo was dead -- I mean dead,'' said Mr. Lawrence, who opened Bang 'Em or Hang 'Em last year across the street from the Toledo Boys and Girls Club in an effort to attract children who had nothing to do after school. ''Now it's back, and it's huge. We can't handle all the kids coming in.''
After-school programs in other states also offer sports that once seemed exotic. In Florida, ice hockey has become one of the most popular programs run by the Pinellas County Sheriff's Police Athletic League.
''If it's a sport like tennis or golf that can't generate income, a lot of the schools around here are doing away with it,'' said Jerry Babcock, the group's director.
He said hockey seemed an unlikely substitute for Florida's traditional high school sports. ''Most kids here never see ice,'' he said, ''much less ice skates.''
In Oxnard, Calif., the school district's budget was reduced to $95 million this year from $115 million three years ago, said William Dabbs, an assistant superintendent. The district has not cut athletics as drastically as in Toledo, but some high schools no longer offer sports for freshmen.
Interest in youth boxing is growing fast, said Terrel Harrison, director of the Police Athletic League in Oxnard. The city has nine boxing gyms, all of which are full. It could open another five, ''and we still wouldn't have enough space for all the kids,'' he said. ''Since they're cutting back on these different school programs, young kids are turning to boxing because it's an extremely inexpensive sport.''
In Toledo, where many parents know that the temptations of street life begin early, they hope the ring will became a haven.
Otha Jones III, who is four feet tall and weighs 80 pounds, trains at Soul City Boxing, a new gym in a barely heated space above a beauty salon in the rough Southside neighborhood. Last year, he won the world championship for his weight class at the Ringside World Championships.
''I used to get in trouble in school because I had friends to get in trouble with,'' said Otha, who is 11. ''I started boxing, and now I don't get in trouble anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Otha Jones III, 11, getting ready for a workout at Toledo's Soul City Boxing. ''I started boxing,'' Otha said, ''and now I don't get in trouble anymore.''
 Soul City Boxing, top floor, is one of many gyms that have opened as the city schools have cut athletics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); CONTUSIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



708 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2475 words

HEADLINE: The (Ex) Voice of the Village

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
WAYNE BARRETT wants to say nice things about people. He wants to, but he finds it so hard.
''We haven't had bad mayors,'' ventured Mr. Barrett, the muck-raking investigative reporter who has made a career of hounding New York City's chief executives. ''They've all done some really good things,'' he added, ''though you probably wouldn't know it to read my copy.''
To review: ''Bloomberg's first term was, I think, the best I've ever covered, but since then he's treading water. I think the job bores him.
''I was very enamored of Rudy Giuliani when he was U.S. attorney, but as mayor, he poisoned the atmosphere, and he doesn't get better over time.'' 
How about Edward I. Koch, who took office in 1978, shortly before Mr. Barrett became a columnist at The Village Voice, and stayed 12 years? The man about whom Mr. Barrett spilled more ink than about any other -- 90 percent of it negative, by his own estimate?
His greatest professional regret, Mr. Barrett said, is ''that I didn't write more positive pieces about the things Koch did well.''
''Koch's work on improving the housing stock in poor neighborhoods had enormous, lasting benefits.'' Pause. ''But he did embrace the criminal class that ran the Democratic Party.''
In 37 years of prolific writing for The Voice -- 32 of them as an investigative columnist -- and in four books, Mr. Barrett has become the unrivaled master of long, dense articles about the unsavory side of New York's political culture. He has passed decades digging through government archives, court transcripts, property records, police blotters and campaign filings, weaving tales of corruption and hypocrisy involving union leaders, neighborhood power brokers, real estate developers, mayors and governors.
That ended in December, when he was laid off without explanation (he suspects budgetary reasons), prompting laments about the future of The Voice, of the city, of journalism itself.
''It's like trading DiMaggio,'' said Donald H. Forst, who was editor of the paper from 1996 to 2006. ''It really won't be the same without him.''
Finding himself unexpectedly unemployed at age 65, Mr. Barrett never stopped working. He walked out of The Voice with half a dozen ideas that he described excitedly, sure that each would blow the lid off someone or something. And every day, newspapers provide new inspirations.
He is at work on an article for The Nation (no, of course he will not say about what) and has a deal with an affiliated group, the Nation Institute, which commissions reporting and finds places to publish it. He is reporting another article for Tina Brown, newly named editor of Newsweek (something about celebrities, but, he promised, ''the story has inherent value''), perhaps the start of a relationship.
Mr. Barrett, then, is doing fine, thank you very much. He even wants to say something nice about the editor of The Voice. Though he finds it a little hard.
''Tony Ortega is the hardest working editor and the most skillful editor of copy that I've ever had,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''But I've never liked him very much.''
Then again, Mr. Barrett has never had much use for editors. ''I don't think there was a single time I did a story an editor asked me to do,'' he said. ''It was extremely rare that they asked me, and every time they did ask, I didn't do it.'' It's not that these editors had ideas that were bad, Mr. Barrett added -- just that his were better.
One of the earliest ideas, back in 1978, was, as Mr. Barrett remembers it, something like ''Ed Koch's War on the Poor.'' In the mid-1980s, there was the revelation that Cardinal John J. O'Connor was registered to vote as a Republican, and one of the earliest stories about AIDS being spread by intravenous drug use.
When Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato was assailing his 1998 challenger, Charles E. Schumer, for missing hundreds of votes in Congress while on the campaign trail, it was Mr. Barrett who dug up the documents showing that Mr. D'Amato had done essentially the same thing 18 years earlier.
''An enterprising reporter helped save us,'' Mr. Schumer, who went on to win that race, wrote later.
Mr. Barrett uncovered the criminal record of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's father, who had committed armed robbery and went to prison during the Depression. As the former mayor was running for president in 2007, Mr. Barrett was the first to report that Mr. Giuliani owned four Yankees World Series rings, which had never been made available to the public, and that he had paid far less for them than they would have fetched on the open market.
Mr. Barrett and his Voice mentor, Jack Newfield, wrote ''City for Sale,'' the definitive account of the contracting scandals in the 1980s that were the darkest stain on the Koch administration and that sent several officials to prison.
If, as his targets and even some former colleagues say, Mr. Barrett was sometimes too quick to draw damning conclusions from the facts he unearthed, the facts themselves were solid.
''Did he write stories that I believed were unfair?'' former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo asked in an interview. ''From time to time, and I told him so. But he was also valuable and admirable. You weren't going to frighten him or bargain him out of a story.''
Writing for a more mainstream publication with a larger circulation might have given Mr. Barrett's work more exposure, might have made people take it more seriously. But he stayed at The Voice, he said, because it provided nearly total freedom to do what he liked. It was not until the last few years, he said, that editors even asked that he run his projects by them before getting started.
''I'm a spoiled brat,'' he admitted. ''I know I'm never going to have that again. I have to get used to the idea that an editor like Tina Brown is going to have her own ideas about what I should be doing.''
Wayne Barrett is not what you think, certainly nothing like an effete snob, as seen in the conservative caricature of the liberal news media.
A veteran of 1960s activism and the alternative press, he has seen several sexual and chemical revolutions unfold, but Mr. Barrett and several friends testified that he had never so much as tried marijuana, and he barely touches alcohol. He calls himself ''a country boy from Lynchburg, Va.,'' where he grew up the second of six children under the thumb of a strict father who was a nuclear engineer.
Journalists tend to be (or, at least, like to think of themselves as) relentless skeptics, mistrustful of institutions, authority and belonging. Yet Mr. Barrett held the same job for more than three decades, through more bosses than he can count.
His goal as a young man was to become a priest: he briefly went to a seminary and remains a practicing Roman Catholic -- albeit one who has no more kind words for the church than he does for politicians.
''I respect authority almost too much, I think,'' he said -- another statement sure to raise eyebrows. ''I'm not an angry guy. There's just a lot to be outraged about.''
He is cheerfully ignorant of much culture, high or low: he does not watch movies, and his favorite television channel is NY1. A combative contrarian living in New York, his favorite team is, naturally, the Boston Red Sox. His taste in food runs to hamburgers; he forces himself to swallow the occasional green vegetable but, he said, he has ''a total phobia of fruit.''
Mr. Barrett refuses to use a cellphone, insisting that people are not meant to always be in contact with one another; he is more animated and long-winded about this pet peeve than about any of the political corruption he has covered. He refused to use e-mail for years after it had become standard, insisting that his interns deliver their memos on paper to his home in Brooklyn. After he relented, it had to be explained to him that ''.com'' was not spelled ''d-o-t-c-o-m.''
No one thinks Mr. Barrett is easy to deal with, least of all Mr. Barrett, which may be one reason he rarely went into the Voice newsroom in Manhattan. Instead, over the phone, he fought bitterly with editors who wanted to make even the slightest changes to his articles, each of which he viewed as a tightly woven pattern of facts that would unravel if one thread were pulled.
''Battling with Wayne Barrett has been one of the best experiences of my career,'' said Mr. Ortega, the current editor of The Voice. ''You work with the guy, you're going to get into fights. I've found in my career that the people who are doing the best journalism are a challenge to work with.''
Back in the days when Mr. Barrett spent more time at the office, ''he would critique us on the way we did interviews on the phone,'' recalled LynNell Hancock, a professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, who worked at The Voice in the 1980s.
''He taught me everything I know about investigative reporting,'' she said. ''But everything with him turns into a debate, and you can't debate him. He's better at it, he's more relentless, and he's bigger and louder.''
That mix of exasperation and affection, intimidation and loyalty, creeps into every conversation with former colleagues. ''He's the scariest, sweetest man alive, and I know that sounds like a contradiction,'' said Jessica Bennett, one of a legion of his former interns, who now writes for Newsweek. ''He was kind of a dad to all of us, took an interest in our personal lives. But you also had to write down his instructions verbatim, because if anything was slightly different, there would be a public berating of the intern.''
Interning for Mr. Barrett became, over the years, a coveted boot camp for aspiring investigative reporters. Veterans have endless tales of the lists of things he wanted them to pursue without explanation, and woe to the youngster who interrupted to ask who Vander Beatty or Ramon Velez was.
''For years I was his de facto intern wrangler, interpreting him to them,'' said William Bastone, a Barrett intern in the 1980s, who became a staff writer for The Voice and then an editor of the Smoking Gun, the investigative journalism Web site that is probably best known for revealing that parts of a best-selling book billed as a memoir, James Frey's ''A Million Little Pieces,'' were fabrications. The site's bread and butter is making public legal documents and government records, often involving famous people.
Barrett alumni from later days recalled getting off the phone with him and frantically doing Google searches for every name he had dropped.
''Working with him was an incredible education that you couldn't get anywhere else,'' said Mr. Bastone. ''He turned a lot of people on to that kind of journalism -- and probably as many people, he showed them that they're not cut out for it.''
Mr. Barrett kept in touch with interns long after they had moved on, helping them land jobs in the nation's most prestigious newsrooms and taking particular delight in marriages between former interns.
As Ms. Hancock put it, ''Wayne manages to be endearing and obnoxious at the same time.''
Or maybe Mr. Barrett is exactly what you think. His approach to his work goes beyond obsession -- to a monomania that influences every facet of his life, in which gathering information trumps all else.
Fran Barrett, his wife since 1969, calls herself ''Wayne's liaison to the planet Earth.''
''He's brutally honest, at work or at home,'' Ms. Barrett said. ''If I buy him a shirt and it's not what he likes, he says, 'Oh, I hate this kind.' Or if you exaggerate something, he'll jump in and say 'Well, that isn't exactly what happened.' ''
Over the years, Ms. Barrett, who works for Atlantic Philanthropies, a charitable foundation dedicated to what the left would call social justice issues, has learned not to worry too much about the sketchy characters, the threats, even the occasional physical assault her husband suffers in pursuit of an article. It is often she who is left to deal with the politicians, mobsters, informants and journalists who knock or call at all hours (one of these, former Governor Cuomo, advised her several times that if she ever wanted a divorce, he would represent her).
''One night, two different guys called, anonymous sources, who said, 'Call me X,' and I'm taking messages,'' Ms. Barrett said. ''I told the second one, 'I'm sorry, X is taken today. I'm going to have to call you Y.' ''
When they met, Mr. Barrett was a Goldwater Republican at St. Joseph's University, a Jesuit school in Philadelphia. But by the time he graduated from Columbia's journalism school, his politics, like many of his peers, had veered hard to the left.
To Mr. Barrett, there were two models of the leftist in that era: Tom Hayden, who wanted to work within the political system, and Abbie Hoffman, who mocked it.
''I very much identified with the Hayden types,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''I took the politics extremely seriously. I wasn't interested in satire.''
After a brief stint as a reporter, he signed on as a New York City public school teacher in 1968, at the height of the Vietnam War, to avoid the draft. He joined a different kind of battle, going to work in the newly created Ocean Hill-Brownsville district in Brooklyn, a racially charged experiment in letting communities exercise some control over their schools. Administrators in the poor, mostly black district dismissed a group of teachers, and the mostly white teachers' union went on strike. Mr. Barrett crossed the picket line.
The Barretts lived in Brownsville for more than a decade. It was there, he said, that he learned how charlatans and crooks could control the flow of money in a low-income neighborhood.
His lifestyle is, in its own way, deeply countercultural, upholding another stereotype about journalism, that it is a refuge for people too off-kilter to make it in a 9-to-5 office job.
He never takes vacations. Ms. Barrett ticked off a long list of faraway lands she has visited without him, including Ireland, where she went this month. Even when they go to their beach house in Ocean City, N.J., he works.
Ms. Barrett remembers driving to get a kitten for their son, Mac, who is now 30, only to have Mr. Barrett spot a car belonging to a politician he was tracking. He followed the car, and they never made it to the animal shelter. Another time, Mr. Barrett called from a remote spot in upstate New York; he had run out of gas following a legislator who he was trying to prove did not live in his district.
Their living and dining rooms are lined with books, all of them nonfiction, all of them read. Mr. Barrett cannot remember the last time he read a novel, and when asked if he felt he was missing something, he said, ''Nyah.''
He has never used an A.T.M. ''I don't spend any money,'' he says. ''Fran gives me $20 on Monday, and I give her change on Friday.'' She buys his clothes, too, and sometimes tells him which ones to wear. ''None of that stuff interests me,'' he says. ''What does is the next story.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
PERILS OF REPORTING: In 1985, while investigating the empire that Ramon S. Velez had built through a network of social services programs in the South Bronx, Wayne Barrett and a photographer visited a Velez property in Puerto Rico. Mr. Velez lunged at them with a broom as a gardener, left, watched. Mr. Barrett said he was also tackled and choked. The photographer rescued him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FERGUSON
 THE VILLAGE VOICE) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); WRITERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); JOURNALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (62%); TRANSCRIPTS (62%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



709 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OPEN & SHUT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle of a Changing City

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
HASH FIFTY FIVE, a snazzy new hookah lounge upstairs from the new restaurant Fifty Five, has a ''Midnight at the Oasis'' theme, with lots of mirrors, black drapery, glam art and low sofas of white leather. 
The bilevel haunt, on 55th Street near Avenue of the Americas, strives to infuse the Midtown scene with some downtown hipness and Middle Eastern exotica. It has a Moroccan-influenced restaurant menu and a variety of flavors of shisha-style tobacco for the hookahs, including chocolate, watermelon, pineapple and others. It's $30 a pop, but there's enough for a good group smoke.
The name, along with its hookahs and decor, seems to suggest all sorts of illicit activity. But the head chef, Victor LaPlaca, who has worked under Todd English, said that they made it ''abundantly clear'' to customers that real hashish was not served.
''There are no drugs going on,'' he said.
Well, maybe one gustatory one, he allowed: his ''hash brownie,'' which he described as ''rich and underdone'' and topped with Cocoa Puffs cereal, cardamom, chocolate shavings and streusel, ''rolled into a ball so it looks like hash.''
COMIX, the comedy club, had an advertising slogan that said: ''Life's tough. Laugh more.'' The first part of this dictum has shown its truth. Tough economic times, a dwindling crowd and high rent and overhead all contributed to the club's shuttering.
''We made a big impact on the New York comedy scene, but it's too bad we couldn't hold on and make it work,'' said its co-owner, Harlan Halper.
The club, on 14th Street near Ninth Avenue, opened in September 2006 and attracted to its stage Roseanne Barr, Craig Ferguson, Richard Lewis, Kathy Griffin, Rosie O'Donnell and Sarah Silverman.
But it had trouble competing with nearby nightspots in the meatpacking district.
''It's hard opening a comedy club in New York, '' said the comedian Bobby Slayton, who performed at Comix shortly before it closed, ''especially in an area like that, where everyone's going to those Euro-trash bars in the meatpacking district or buying $9,000 shoes at Stella McCartney.'' COREY KILGANNON

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN: Feb. 24, Midtown
 SHUT: Feb. 12, Chelsea. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CANNABIS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



710 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Buffett Plans to Buy Local, Investing Mostly in the U.S.

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett does not put a title on his annual letter. But if he did, this year's dispatch might be headlined ''God Bless the U.S.A.''
In the face of persistent worries about the American economy, the country's most famous -- and closely followed -- investor struck a patriotic tone in his annual report to shareholders of his company, Berkshire Hathaway, writing that ''money will always flow toward opportunity, and there is an abundance of that in America.''
Mr. Buffett said Berkshire last year spent more than $5 billion on property and equipment in the United States - more than 90 percent of the company's total expenditure - and that the overwhelming part of the company's future investment will be at home. 
''The prophets of doom have overlooked the all-important factor that is certain: Human potential is far from exhausted, and the American system for unleashing that potential - a system that has worked wonders for over two centuries despite frequent interruptions for recessions and even a Civil War - remains alive and effective,'' he wrote.
''Now, as in 1776, 1861, 1932 and 1941, America's best days lie ahead.''
Dispensing financial observations in a folksy manner, the yearly dispatch from the 80-year-old Mr. Buffett has become something of a state of the union address for Wall Street and, more broadly, for the global economy.
But the letter also serves as an update for Mr. Buffett's most important constituency - the shareholders in Berkshire, an investment holding company.
Mr. Buffett wrote that Berkshire had net income of $13 billion last year, about 61 percent higher than in 2009. The company also reported a 13 percent rise in book value.
Shares of Berkshire Hathaway, which peaked in late 2007 at more than $148,000 apiece, closed Friday at $127,550. They rose about 29 percent in 2010, more than double the performance of the broader stock market.
Mr. Buffett also highlighted smaller numbers in trumpeting the thrifty culture at Berkshire, which operates from modest offices in Omaha, Nebraska. He and his business partner, Charlie Munger, ''treat your money as if it were our own,'' he wrote to his shareholders.
''At Berkshire's ''World Headquarters'' our annual rent is $270,212,'' he wrote. ''Moreover, the home-office investment in furniture, art, Coke dispenser, lunch room, high-tech equipment - you name it - totals $301,363.''
Beyond the flag-waving, the letter provides fodder for investors and business executives who look to Mr. Buffett for sage advice. In a two-page discussion of ''intrinsic value'' - a favorite security analysis concept of Mr. Buffett and his investment hero, Benjamin Graham - he emphasized the importance of having the right chief executive in place.
''The difference in outcome can be huge,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''A dollar of then-value in the hands of Sears Roebuck's or Montgomery Ward's C.E.O.'s in the late 1960s had a far different destiny than did a dollar entrusted to Sam Walton.''
Those looking for clear insights into Mr. Buffett's succession plans, one of Wall Street's favorite parlor games, will be disappointed. He praised the head of his large insurance business, Ajit Jain (''even kryptonite bounces off Ajit''); lamented the retirement of one potential successor, Lou Simpson (''one of the investment greats''); and praised a new hire, the unheralded hedge fund manager Todd Combs (hopefully ''a two-year-old Secretariat''). But there was no specific mention of a succession plan.
Mr. Buffett has said that when he dies his job will be split into three positions: a chairman, a chief executive and a chief investment officer.
Though his letter was largely free of negativity, Mr. Buffett used the hiring of Mr. Combs - and his relatively modest compensation arrangement - to take a swipe at the hedge fund industry.
''The hedge-fund world has witnessed some terrible behavior by general partners who have received huge payouts on the upside and who then, when bad results occurred, have walked away rich, with their limited partners losing back their earlier gains,'' he wrote. Mr. Buffett also mocked fund consultants who ''like to require style boxes'' -- or investment categories -- ''such as 'long-short,' 'macro,' 'international equities.' At Berkshire our only style box is 'smart.'''
Mr. Buffett addressed one of Berkshire's most closely watched holdings on Wall Street, the $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs made during the depths of the financial crisis. He explained that Goldman has the right to repurchase his preferred shares, which have sharply increased in value, on 30 days notice. Goldman, he wrote, ''has been held back by the Federal Reserve (bless it!), which unfortunately will give Goldman the green light before too long.''
Mr. Buffett attributed much of the year's success to his acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad, calling it the highlight of 2010. The $26 billion deal, he said, has increased his company's earnings power by more than 30 percent. But Mr. Buffett also trumpeted the benefits of rail travel beyond profits.
''Railroads have major cost and environmental advantages over trucking, their main competitor,'' said Mr. Buffett. ''Our country gains because of reduced greenhouse emissions and a much smaller need for imported oil. When traffic travels by rail, society benefits.''
He said that the railroad would need to invest in its infrastructure in order to expand its business, and that Berkshire was ready to spend on that.
''However slow the economy, or chaotic the markets, our checks will clear,'' he said.
Mr. Buffett also teased his shareholders - and Buffett-watchers - in writing that he was on the hunt for ''more major acquisitions.''
''We're prepared,'' he wrote. ''Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is itchy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011



711 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Integration, Whatever the Path

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: oneducation@nytimes.com

 BODY:
RALEIGH, N.C. -- For decades, the Wake County Public School System -- the nation's 18th largest -- has been known as a strong academic district committed to integration.
From the 1970s to the 1990s, that meant racial integration.
In 2000, after courts ruled against using race-based criteria, Wake became one of the first districts in the nation to adopt a system of socioeconomic integration. The idea was that every school in the county (163 at present) would have a mix of children from poor to rich. The target for schools was a 60-40 mix -- 60 percent of students who did not require subsidized lunches and 40 percent who did.
Then in 2009, a new conservative majority was elected to the Wake school board, and last spring it voted to dismantle the integration plan. Instead, families would be assigned to a school nearer their neighborhood. This meant a child who lived in a poor, black section of Raleigh would be more likely to go to a school full of poor black children, and a child living in a white, upper-middle-class suburb would be more likely go to a school full of upper-middle-class white children. 
In most places that would have been it. Not here. This is a well-educated labor force (50 percent of employees are college graduates) that works in the high-tech Research Triangle and is predisposed to finding new ways to solve complex problems.
And that's just what they set out to do. Two weeks ago, civic leaders here unveiled their proposal for a third generation of integration: integration by achievement. Under this plan, no school would have an overwhelming number of failing students. Instead a school might have a 70-30 mix -- 70 percent of students who have scored proficient on state tests and 30 percent who are below grade level.
The plan -- believed to be the first of its kind in the nation -- was developed by community leaders who sound nothing like the civil rights leaders of the 1960s. They sound more like members of the Chamber of Commerce -- which they are. ''We believe our proposal is consumer friendly,'' said Harvey A. Schmitt, president of the Greater Raleigh Chamber. ''We believe it will sell well in a market of high expectations.''
The initial reaction has been positive. In interviews last week, a conservative board member (John Tedesco) and a liberal member (Kevin Hill), a leader in the African-American community (Bill McNeal, a former Wake school superintendent) and the current superintendent, Anthony Tata, all said the same thing -- the plan is a good start and could work.
This may be the first time these four have agreed on anything.
The board is split five Republicans to four Democrats, and for the last 15 months meetings have looked like a Cartoon Network special, featuring in the lead role Mr. Tedesco, 36, the most verbal member of the majority. He is single with no children and has lots of time on his hands to stir things up.
Since he was elected, his ups and downs have been chronicled practically daily in the media: his house was in foreclosure; he'd been interviewed by Fox News; he'd lost his job; he was a featured speaker at a Tea Party rally; the county Republican Party was asking for donations to support him; he refused to accept those donations and said he would give them to charity.
Things got so out of hand that last fall, the board committee headed by Mr. Tedesco, which was supposed to develop a plan to replace socioeconomic integration, voted unanimously to disband itself.
''Every day, something I said was a story,'' Mr. Tedesco said in a recent interview. ''I said the school system is kind of like the Titanic, it's hard to turn around. Next day the headline is 'Tedesco Compares Wake County Schools to Titanic.' ''
Nevertheless, the school system did seem to be sinking. After a complaint from the N.A.A.C.P., the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights launched an investigation into whether the new board's policies had led to the resegregation of schools. A national school accreditation agency is conducting a similar investigation.
In January, Arne Duncan, the federal secretary of education, called the board's action ''troubling'' and ''backward.'' Gov. Bev Perdue has called it ''one of the most disheartening things'' she's seen. And last week, Bill Clinton chastised the board for being insensitive to the poor.
Perhaps most devastating of all, Stephen Colbert devoted one of his very faux newscasts to eviscerating the board, describing the abandonment of the socioeconomic policy as ''disintegration.'' ''What's the use of living in a gated community,'' Mr. Colbert asked, ''if my kids go to school and get poor all over them?''
For people who worried about Wake County's image, this was a disaster. ''The business community asked us a hundred times, 'What's going on here?' '' said Tim Simmons, a vice president of the Wake Education Partnership, the educational arm of local business groups. '' 'Isn't there something that could bring order to this debate?' ''
Since last summer the Chamber of Commerce had been working on a plan that would do just that. In September the chamber hired Michael Alves, a nationally known consultant who has been developing school integration plans since 1981.
SAS Institute, a global software producer owned by James Goodnight, the richest man in North Carolina, with a reported worth of $6.9 billion, provided two doctorate-level programmers free to do data analysis for the plan.
One reason Mr. Tedesco was elected is that parents were upset about how often their children had to change schools. Because Wake enrollment has exploded to 143,000 students in 2010 from 101,000 in 2001, children often had to be reassigned to maintain a 60-40 economic balance at each school. Mr. Simmons said it was common for students who entered a school in kindergarten to be reassigned to a second school by the time they reached fifth grade.
Under the proposed plan, once students entered a school, they would not have to move.
Parents also wanted more school choice, and Mr. Alves calculated that he could balance schools by achievement and still give families their first-choice school 80 percent of the time and their first and second choices 93 percent of the time.
Advocates of the plan believe that schools balanced by achievement won't look too different from schools balanced by socioeconomics. That's because there is a strong statistical correlation between wealth and test scores; generally the wealthier a child's family, the higher the child's test scores.
Mr. Schmitt thinks that both racial and socioeconomic integration have been proxies for academic integration; that what a parent -- white, black, Hispanic, Asian -- wants most for a child is to attend an academically successful school; and that race and wealth have been roundabout ways to accomplish that.
He says integration by achievement will be good for business because no matter where a family lives in the county, their children can attend a high achieving school. ''Companies can come into this market and not have to pay extra for employees to send their children to private schools,'' he said.
While the chamber's plan has impressed many, it is only a recommendation. The ultimate decision will lie with the board.
The consequences of having no plan are clear from what's happened at the Walnut Creek Elementary School, a new Wake County school located in a poor section of Raleigh that will open next fall.
Walnut Creek is projected to be 95 percent minority, with 81 percent of the students receiving free and reduced lunches. A school in North Carolina is considered low performing if more than 50 percent of its students are below grade level. Fifty-three percent of the incoming Walnut Creek students have scored below grade level on the most recent state tests.
In December the board chose a new superintendent, Mr. Tata, a retired brigadier general, who worked under Michelle Rhee in the Washington school system On his blog he once wrote that he admired the Tea Party and Sarah Palin, which caused a sizable stink here.
Since then he has assured people that as a career military man, he can be objective and fair. His first three weeks on the job, he has kept a low profile, visiting 32 schools and mostly listening.
Two weeks ago he asked board members for permission to take over from them the responsibility of drafting a new student assignment proposal. He told them he'd have it to them by spring, and they looked like they had just been rescued from the Great Dismal Swamp.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ligon Middle School in Raleigh, N.C. The Wake County school system, after abandoning one integration approach, is considering another that would assign students based on achievement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); FAMILY (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



712 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: When Health Insurance Isn't for Sale

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Money Won't Buy You Health Insurance,'' by Donna Dubinsky (Op-Ed, Feb. 20):
Three years ago, I discovered the hard truth about health insurance. Although I was and continue to be self-employed, my husband worked for a company with generous health care benefits. Our family, the three of us, were healthy -- until, that is, my husband received a diagnosis of terminal pancreatic cancer at age 51. He died just over a month later.
Although his company extended our coverage for as long as legally possible, its end was rapidly in sight. I learned firsthand how expensive and limited individual coverage was to buy. 
I have submitted my application and am patiently waiting to hear if I've been accepted. I've been told that as long as my coverage has been continuous, I stand an excellent chance. But I am now days away from my coverage ending. To be honest, I'm terrified.
What most do not understand is that we are one death, one job loss or one illness away from catastrophe. I am more fortunate than most; I have the financial resources to afford health coverage. Now I hope I am lucky enough to be approved to be allowed to buy it. Health care reform cannot come fast enough for me.
Jo Turpin Millburn, N.J., Feb. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
I was deeply moved by Donna Dubinsky's tale of trying to find insurance for her family. I am aware of many people, both unemployed and underemployed, who live without any health insurance because they simply cannot afford it. Some of them have not pursued the more expensive private options, so they have not suffered being refused for trivial reasons; others have had care for conditions (like breast cancer) that make them ineligible.
I imagine every American knows people who are living in fear of needing basic medical help, healthy care. I am appalled that a nation of great wealth and potential so underserves its population, regardless of health and age.
I strongly support the suggestion that members of Congress should no longer have preferential treatment. As Ms. Dubinsky writes, ''Let's credit their pay for the amount that has been paid by the taxpayers, and let them try to buy health insurance in the individual market.'' They might soon recognize the desirability of health care reform with a single-payer system.
Mary D. Allen Philadelphia, Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
I was sorry to read how hard it was for Donna Dubinsky, the former Palm executive, to find individual health insurance for her family -- and about the 20 percent yearly rate increases they face. I noticed she lives in California. Perhaps if Americans were allowed to buy insurance in any of the 50 states, more and cheaper options would be available.
That and other ideas -- tort reform to cap malpractice verdicts and expanded health savings accounts, to name two -- have been discussed for years. Sadly, the onerous and convoluted health reform law that Congress passed ignores those and other worthy reforms.
Bill Apple New York, Feb. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
The key phrase in Donna Dubinsky's article is, ''If we are not going to have universal coverage.'' Any reform that doesn't offer nonprofit, quality, affordable universal access is inferior and fraught with serious problems, not to mention the complexity and unfairness of for-profit insurance.
Until we reform Medicare and create Medicare for all, including the option to buy private insurance as we do with public and private education, the nation will suffer with the ever-growing injustices of the lack of access to care for more and more Americans, skyrocketing inflation of health care costs and the worst outcomes among all the developed nations on the planet.
Jerry Frankel Houston, Feb. 20, 2011
The writer is a urologist.
To the Editor:
Donna Dubinsky hypothesizes that if members of Congress -- particularly those intent on undoing the recent health care legislation -- had to procure their own individual coverage, they would all be denied. They would then (presumably) better understand the need for reform.
Of course, the reality is that none of them would be denied coverage. Any sensible insurance company would weigh ''pre-existing conditions'' against ''member of Congress'' and make the choice most likely to ensure its own long-term health.
Jonathan R. Bass San Francisco, Feb. 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Donna Dubinsky describes her family's frustrating inability to buy individual health insurance in California because of minor pre-existing conditions and other obstacles.
What she doesn't mention is that in just one state, Massachusetts, her dilemma can't happen. No one can be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition, and any resident can buy a quality health insurance policy, without a broker, online in 10 minutes flat, making easy apples-to-apples comparisons among policies.
This is the future of health insurance for all Americans thanks to the federal Affordable Care Act -- a health insurance system that puts consumers first. Ms. Dubinsky's story illustrates why the law needs to be carried out and why it is worth defending.
John E. McDonough Brookline, Mass., Feb. 20, 2011 The writer is a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health and a former United States Senate staff member.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of the letter from Brookline, Mass., referred incorrectly to the Affordable Care Act. It is the federal health reform law, not the Massachusetts law.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD MIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CANCER (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DISMISSALS (72%); BREAST CANCER (71%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011



713 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: For Times Scholars, the Promise of the Future

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
One is a superintendent's son who used to hold his father's toolbox on the job and may become an electrical engineer. Another is the daughter of an unemployed mother who has moved eight times in the past three years and could achieve her goal of building homes for the poor in foreign countries. A third is the youngest member of a seven-person family that lives together in a small, one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx; he might end up as a mechanical engineering student at Princeton University.
The gap between the present tense (reality's tense) and the future conditional (where dreams and aspirations reside) is usually a wide one, traditionally bridged by sweat or perseverance or an optimistic attitude or mere good luck. Sometimes, though, it takes a little more than these, a little extra push, to make it from the present to the future; and that is why these three young students -- Guillermo Malena, Tami Forrester and Syed Habib, all 17 -- were awarded money last week by The New York Times to help them attend the college of their choice. 
They were among a total of eight high school seniors in New York, chosen from an applicant pool of hundreds, to receive four-year college scholarships, as well as summer jobs at The Times, introductions to various cultural events in the city and mentoring to help them navigate the often-difficult transition from their rocky homes and high schools to collegiate academic life. The Times Scholars program, established in 1998, has now helped more than 200 promising, financially challenged students. It is supported mostly by The New York Times Company Foundation and by annual donations from various readers of The Times. This year, the program received a generous bequest from the estate of Dr. Muriel (Miki) Grubel to pursue its stated mission: finding college-bound seniors in New York and recognizing them for their academic accomplishments, their community involvement and their determination in overcoming economic adversity.
They are seniors like Faheem Zaman, a 17-year-old student at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, who was raised by parents selling traditional Bengali clothes and trinkets from their home, and who now wants to study neuroscience and health care policy at Harvard University. ''They always told me, 'You know, Faheem, we don't want you to necessarily be the richest guy on the block,' '' he said. ''But always try to help people, especially globally, if you can.''
Dextina Booker, who now attends the Secondary School for Law in Brooklyn, spent part of her childhood in her native country, Guyana, where she remembers ''being barefoot a lot of the time.'' At age 11, she and her mother, Shellon; her older brother, Dexter; and her younger sister, Destiny, moved to Brooklyn, where they changed apartments several times because they did not have enough money for rent, and where they eventually faced eviction.
Then, in the 10th grade, Ms. Booker took a chemistry class that changed her life. She said she told her teacher, Jenny Barrett, ''I just want to be great,'' and Ms. Barrett answered that one definition of greatness was touching other people's lives. Now, Ms. Booker says, she wants to be a chemistry teacher herself. ''There's no sense sitting down on your knowledge,'' she insisted, ''and keeping it to yourself.''
Olivia Chavez, a senior at the New Explorations Into Science, Technology and Math school, known as NEST + M on the Lower East Side in Manhattan, was born four months premature and has cerebral palsy. She was adopted and raised by her maternal aunt, Rosario Chavez, a former housekeeper at Columbia University, after what Olivia Chavez called ''some personal issues'' caused her mother to give up parental custody rights.
Ms. Chavez, who lives in Glendale, Queens, has always loved science and wants to attend Yale University to pursue a major in biomedical engineering. ''I love the physical aspect of science,'' she explained. ''You know, seeing stuff as it actually happens.''
David Boucard, who attends the Life Sciences Secondary School on the Upper East Side, was raised in Brooklyn and Harlem by a single mother who worked as a filing clerk for a home-health services company. The two are close and often attend concerts together at Carnegie Hall when they can find discount tickets.
''She was worried about the financial situation with me going to college,'' he said. (Mr. Boucard's dream is to attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and to study computer science and electrical engineering.) ''I want to build and to create,'' he added. ''I want to be involved in technology.'' Receiving a scholarship from The Times, he said, ''took a burden off my mother's back.''
Then there is Kenneth Hicks, an eloquent and composed senior at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx. Mr. Hicks, who helped form a debate club at his school (where the topics include the ethical implications of abortion to whether teenage criminals should be tried as adults), wants to be a lawyer.
In 2006, when he was in the eighth grade, his mother was found to have breast and bone cancer; three years later, she died. On the day she died, Mr. Hicks summoned the strength to return to school and sit through an Advanced Placement test. He now lives with his legal guardian, Stephanie Bennett, who was also his mother's best friend, and will attend Columbia University, which recently accepted him through early admissions.
Over the years, Times scholars have overcome an astonishing list of obstacles (rough neighborhoods, poorly equipped schools, family drug use) to achieve an equally astonishing list of accomplishments. Former scholars now include bankers, doctors, scientists, a film student raised in a Bronx homeless shelter, an analyst in the money laundering unit of the Manhattan district attorney's office and a licensed aircraft mechanic whose mother worked as a cashier in the food court at LaGuardia Airport.
One scholar from 1999, Anahad O'Connor, grew up with six brothers and sisters in a public housing project on the Lower East Side and was the first member of his family to graduate from college. He is now a Times reporter; his 2007 book, ''Never Shower in a Thunderstorm,'' has sold more than 35,000 copies.
Nearly all of them -- 98 percent -- graduate from the colleges they attend. This year, the program moved back to an earlier method of selecting applicants: the students were not nominated by teachers or administrators; they nominated themselves.
''We love it that our kids do that,'' said Ria Coyne, a program manager with R&R Educational Consultants, which has worked with the scholarship program since it began. ''We love it that our students are ambitious and aggressive about pursuing their own education.
''These,'' Ms. Coyne said, ''are real New York kids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, recipients of the Times scholarships: Syed Habib, Dextina Booker, Faheem Zaman, Olivia Chavez, Tami Forrester, David Boucard, Kenneth Hicks and Guillermo Malena. The eight, chosen from hundreds, will receive four-year college scholarships. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); NEUROSCIENCE (60%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



714 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Leaving Children Behind

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
Ross Douthat is off today.

 BODY:
Will 2011 be the year of fiscal austerity? At the federal level, it's still not clear: Republicans are demanding draconian spending cuts, but we don't yet know how far they're willing to go in a showdown with President Obama. At the state and local level, however, there's no doubt about it: big spending cuts are coming.
And who will bear the brunt of these cuts? America's children. 
Now, politicians -- and especially, in my experience, conservative politicians -- always claim to be deeply concerned about the nation's children. Back during the 2000 campaign, then-candidate George W. Bush, touting the ''Texas miracle'' of dramatically lower dropout rates, declared that he wanted to be the ''education president.'' Today, advocates of big spending cuts often claim that their greatest concern is the burden of debt our children will face.
In practice, however, when advocates of lower spending get a chance to put their ideas into practice, the burden always seems to fall disproportionately on those very children they claim to hold so dear.
Consider, as a case in point, what's happening in Texas, which more and more seems to be where America's political future happens first.
Texas likes to portray itself as a model of small government, and indeed it is. Taxes are low, at least if you're in the upper part of the income distribution (taxes on the bottom 40 percent of the population are actually above the national average). Government spending is also low. And to be fair, low taxes may be one reason for the state's rapid population growth, although low housing prices are surely much more important.
But here's the thing: While low spending may sound good in the abstract, what it amounts to in practice is low spending on children, who account directly or indirectly for a large part of government outlays at the state and local level.
And in low-tax, low-spending Texas, the kids are not all right. The high school graduation rate, at just 61.3 percent, puts Texas 43rd out of 50 in state rankings. Nationally, the state ranks fifth in child poverty; it leads in the percentage of children without health insurance. And only 78 percent of Texas children are in excellent or very good health, significantly below the national average.
But wait -- how can graduation rates be so low when Texas had that education miracle back when former President Bush was governor? Well, a couple of years into his presidency the truth about that miracle came out: Texas school administrators achieved low reported dropout rates the old-fashioned way -- they, ahem, got the numbers wrong.
It's not a pretty picture; compassion aside, you have to wonder -- and many business people in Texas do -- how the state can prosper in the long run with a future work force blighted by childhood poverty, poor health and lack of education.
But things are about to get much worse.
A few months ago another Texas miracle went the way of that education miracle of the 1990s. For months, Gov. Rick Perry had boasted that his ''tough conservative decisions'' had kept the budget in surplus while allowing the state to weather the recession unscathed. But after Mr. Perry's re-election, reality intruded -- funny how that happens -- and the state is now scrambling to close a huge budget gap. (By the way, given the current efforts to blame public-sector unions for state fiscal problems, it's worth noting that the mess in Texas was achieved with an overwhelmingly nonunion work force.)
So how will that gap be closed? Given the already dire condition of Texas children, you might have expected the state's leaders to focus the pain elsewhere. In particular, you might have expected high-income Texans, who pay much less in state and local taxes than the national average, to be asked to bear at least some of the burden.
But you'd be wrong. Tax increases have been ruled out of consideration; the gap will be closed solely through spending cuts. Medicaid, a program that is crucial to many of the state's children, will take the biggest hit, with the Legislature proposing a funding cut of no less than 29 percent, including a reduction in the state's already low payments to providers -- raising fears that doctors will start refusing to see Medicaid patients. And education will also face steep cuts, with school administrators talking about as many as 100,000 layoffs.
The really striking thing about all this isn't the cruelty -- at this point you expect that -- but the shortsightedness. What's supposed to happen when today's neglected children become tomorrow's work force?
Anyway, the next time some self-proclaimed deficit hawk tells you how much he worries about the debt we're leaving our children, remember what's happening in Texas, a state whose slogan right now might as well be ''Lose the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); RANKINGS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (56%); HOME PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



715 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Limit Pay, Not Unions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG. 
Michael R. Bloomberg is the mayor of New York.

 BODY:
IN Ohio, Wisconsin and other states facing budget deficits, some elected officials assert that closing those gaps requires achieving labor savings and weakening labor unions. They are half-right.
Across the country, taxpayers are providing pensions, benefits and job security protections for public workers that almost no one in the private sector enjoys. Taxpayers simply cannot afford to continue paying these costs, which are growing at rates far outpacing inflation. Yes, public sector workers need a secure retirement. And yes, taxpayers need top-quality police officers, teachers and firefighters. It's the job of government to balance those competing needs. But for a variety of reasons, the scale has been increasingly tipping away from taxpayers.
Correcting this imbalance is not easy, but in a growing number of states, budget deficits are being used to justify efforts to scale back not only labor costs, but labor rights. The impulse is understandable; public sector unions all too often stand in the way of reform. But unions also play a vital role in protecting against abuses in the workplace, and in my experience they are integral to training, deploying and managing a professional work force. 
Organizing around a common interest is a fundamental part of democracy. We should no more try to take away the right of individuals to collectively bargain than we should try to take away the right to a secret ballot. Instead, we should work to modernize government's relationship with unions -- and union leaders should be farsighted enough to cooperate, because the only way to protect the long-term integrity of employee benefits is to ensure the public's long-term ability to fund them. In Wisconsin, efforts to rein in spending on labor contracts have included proposals to strip unions of their right to collectively bargain for pensions and health care benefits.
Yet the problem is not unions expressing those rights; it is governments failing to adapt to the times and act in a fiscally responsible manner. If contract terms or labor laws from years past no longer make sense, we the people should renegotiate -- or legislate -- changes. Benefits agreed to 35 years ago that now are unaffordable should be reduced. Similarly, work rules that made sense 70 years ago but are now antiquated should be changed.
In New York City, we share the same goal as cities and states across the nation -- less spending and better services. We, too, are seeking to legislate changes to reduce pension and benefit costs and modernize our labor laws. But in some cases, we believe expanding collective bargaining would be more beneficial than trying to eliminate it.
For example, in New York, state government -- not the city -- has the authority to set pension benefits for city workers, but city taxpayers get stuck with the bill. The mayor cannot directly discuss pension benefits as part of contract negotiations with unions, even though pension benefits could be as much as 80 percent of an employee's overall compensation. In addition, members of the State Legislature pass pension ''sweeteners'' for municipal unions that help attract support for their re-election campaigns.
These are problems that mayors around the country also face. In New York City, taxpayers will be forced to pay $8.3 billion in pension costs this year, up from $1.5 billion 10 years ago. Our proposal to the state is simple: legislate lower costs this year and, going forward, give us the authority to negotiate fair pension savings ourselves.
Pensions are not the only area where we would like to expand our collective bargaining authority in order to modernize government. New York is one of only a dozen or so states with a law requiring layoffs of teachers based strictly on seniority -- a policy that's known as ''last in, first out.'' In New York City, we are preparing to lay off workers across city agencies, including 4,500 teachers. And the only thing worse than laying off teachers would be laying off the wrong teachers -- some of our very best.
That's why we are asking the state to give us the legal authority to collectively bargain a layoff policy with the teachers' union -- and in the meantime, to conduct layoffs based on common-sense factors like eliminating teachers who have been rated unsatisfactory, found guilty of criminal charges or failed to meet professional certification requirements.
To the extent that collective bargaining agreements or state laws are no longer serving the public, we should change them. That is what democracy is all about -- and that is our responsibility. The job of labor leaders is to get the best deal for their members. The job of elected officials is to get the best deal for all citizens.
Rather than declare war on unions, we should demand a new deal with them -- one that reflects today's economic realities and workplace conditions, not those of a century ago. If we fail to do that, the fault is not in our unions, or in our stars, but in ourselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



716 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Concern for Underclass As the City Progresses On Its Willets Point Plan

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
Two years ago, as the mayor attended the Mets' home opener at the new Citi Field, Adrien Nicolescue, an auto mechanic from Romania, joined a procession of honking garbage trucks to protest the city's plans to condemn the nearby Willets Point area and build a $3 billion project of apartments, office buildings, stores, restaurants and a hotel.
But as his comrades geared up for another showdown with the mayor at a public hearing on the project scheduled for Wednesday, Mr. Nicolescue decided to pack up and leave. ''I am going home, back to Romania,'' he said, standing on the same pothole-pocked corner of Willets Point where he has been drawing in customers for windshield repairs for 36 years. 
Willets Point, in Queens, is a 61-acre expanse of junkyards and auto-repair shops so squalid that local business owners compare it to Iraq. ''I don't want to leave,'' Mr. Nicolescue said, ''but I have nowhere to go. This may look like the third world, but it is my world.''
For half a century, Willets Point has proved remarkably intractable -- Mayors Robert F. Wagner Jr. and Rudolph W. Giuliani were among those who failed in their attempts to give the area a facelift. But in the latest four-year skirmish, which has provoked heated debates on class and ethnicity, inspired furious lobbying on all sides and spawned allegations of conflicts of interest, the administration of Michael R. Bloomberg has gotten further than its predecessors, managing to persuade many of the larger businesses to sell out or relocate.
The city agency overseeing the project, the New York City Economic Development Corporation, hopes that at the hearing on Wednesday it can make the case that it is redeeming a hazardous industrial wasteland.
Seth W. Pinsky, president of the corporation, said in an interview that the project would create 5,300 new jobs, provide affordable housing and generate $25 billion in investment over the next 30 years. He said that 29 developers had already expressed interest, and that the city would choose finalists this spring.
But opponents of the Bloomberg plan counter that the project is speculative and environmentally unsound. They insist that the area, however bedraggled, has become an Ellis Island of sorts for a newly arriving underclass that depends on it to get by. They also complain bitterly that the city is shutting down thriving small businesses that have nowhere else to go.
The city will have 90 days to respond to concerns raised at the hearing on Wednesday. Officials said they planned to proceed with the project, including seizing property, if necessary, by the middle of 2012.
City officials estimate that Willets Point is home to 255 businesses, which employ about 1,700 people, some in sheds made of tin or cinder blocks. Of 74 property owners, 28 have agreed to sell their land or relocate, city officials say; the city already owns 90 percent of the property where the first five-year phase of development would go.
While opposition to the plans remains strong, people on both sides said that the city's divide-and-conquer strategy seems to have worked, with many of the largest landowners conceding defeat and planning to depart, leaving the smaller shops and the immigrants who work there to fight a lonely battle.
''I'm not going to fight a man like Bloomberg: You know you aren't going to win,'' said Daniel Sambucci, 80, who said he had agreed to accept an offer of a ''few million'' dollars from the city for his 2.5 acres of land and to relocate his 61-year-old auto salvage company to a nearby neighborhood. ''They treated us pretty good. But I am upset that I paid $50,000 a year in taxes for years for a place with no sewers. This place is worse than Iraq, and the city let it become this way.''
On a recent afternoon, as garbage cans burned, Mexican norteno music wailed from boom boxes on the hoods of cars. Large pools of swirling dirty water overwhelmed unpaved roads. Locals complained that the police handed out tickets for parking cars on the sidewalk, even though there were no sidewalks.
Whatever the challenges, some are determined to stay. Michael Rikon, a lawyer representing 82 businesses that have refused to leave, said that he was preparing to file a lawsuit against the city, claiming that the project flouted environmental laws. But he acknowledged that history and precedent were not on his side.
In November 2009, the Court of Appeals, New York's highest court, ruled that the state could take businesses and private property for the $4.9 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. Legal experts said that decision reaffirmed New York's right to use eminent domain even as many state legislatures have been moving in the opposite direction.
While some critics have portrayed the redevelopment of Willets Point as a class battle by a billionaire mayor intent on supplanting scrap metal with sushi, the Bloomberg administration has some unlikely allies in the project. ''We see Willets Point as a form of modern-day slavery in which poor people are working in conditions worse than in their home countries,'' said Eduardo Giraldo, head of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Queens. ''It is better to shut it down.''
Mr. Pinsky, of the Economic Development Corporation, stressed that the first phase of the project would include 140 affordable housing units and noted that the city had offered free English language lessons and training for Willets Point's dispossessed. But, Mr. Giraldo said, many of the immigrant workers could not take advantage of the classes because they were already working 12-hour days.
Meanwhile, some small business owners are frustrated that their neighbors are getting lucrative deals from the city and they are not. Ralph St. John, whose company has built apartment buildings and parks for the city for nearly 20 years, said he had been offered nothing, and that his 18 employees would lose their jobs if he were forced to leave.
City officials said that Mr. St. John's land was not earmarked for development in the first phase, and that by the time the city was ready to make a deal with him, his land would probably have increased in value. But Mr. St. John, who is 77, does not want to live in limbo.
''If you want what I got, act like a man and come face me,'' he said. ''Don't use eminent domain and steal from me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adrien Nicolescue has worked on the same corner of Willets Point for 36 years, but he is leaving.
Ralph St. John, a contractor, said his 18 workers would lose their jobs if he were forced to leave.
 Daniel Sambucci, 80, plans to move his business after accepting the city's offer of a ''few million.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); JOB CREATION (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



717 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Unions Debate What to Give to Save Bargaining

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Kate Zernike and Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As Wisconsin's governor and public employees square off in the biggest public sector labor showdown since Ronald Reaganfired striking air traffic controllers in 1981, government employees' unions in a range of states are weighing whether to give ground on wages, benefits and work rules to preserve basic bargaining rights.
It is not yet clear whether Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin will succeed in his quest to strip public employee unions of most of their bargaining rights. But by simply pressing the issue, he has already won major concessions that would have been unthinkable just a month ago.
Some of Wisconsin's major public sector unions, faced with what they see as a threat to their existence, have decided to accept concessions that they had been vigorously fighting: they said they would agree to have more money deducted from workers' paychecks to go toward their pensions and health benefits, translating into a pay cut of around 7 percent. 
But Mr. Walker is not settling for that. He said that those concessions were ''an interesting development, because a week ago they said that's not acceptable.''
In Tennessee, where teachers are fighting a bill that would repeal the 1978 law that gave them the right to bargain collectively, they have already signaled that they would be willing to make some concessions on tenure, said Jerry Winters, the manager of government relations for the Tennessee Education Association, which represents 52,000 teachers. And he said negotiations could be tough in the current atmosphere.
''When you're fighting to keep the very right to have collective bargaining, it's going to have some impact on what you do in your bargaining,'' he said.
The sudden spate of bills seeking to eliminate or weaken collective bargaining -- and the fierce protests by unions trying to preserve those rights -- are largely a product of November's elections. Those elections brought a new class of conservative Republican governors to power, including Mr. Walker and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who is also taking aim at collective bargaining. Republicans won control of both houses of 25 state legislatures, up from 14.
Now some of those newly powerful Republicans have decided to check the power of public sector unions, saying they have long used their political influence to win wages and benefits that the lawmakers believe are not affordable. Democrats, however, see the anti-union bills as an effort to weaken organized labor, which has long been one of their major sources of support.
Several Republicans seeking to overhaul labor laws said that they felt strong constituent support for taking on public sector unions. These unions have lost considerable popular support in recent years from private sector workers, many of whom no longer enjoy the job protection, health benefits and, especially, pension plans that many state and local workers still have.
Mr. Walker, who has called public sector workers ''haves'' and private sector workers ''have-nots,'' said in an interview last week that he was looking for a long-term solution to Wisconsin's budget problems. ''We're asking for a reasonable amount from state and local workers,'' he said, ''and most people in the private sector will say what we're asking for is pretty modest.''
Robert B. Reich, who was secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, said he saw the effort to curtail bargaining rights as a politically motivated act by Republican governors. ''Wisconsin state workers have already signaled their willingness to give the governor what he wants in concessions -- they just don't want to give up the right to bargain,'' said Mr. Reich, one of the more liberal voices in the Clinton White House. ''We're likely to see the same pattern across the country. This is exactly the pattern we've seen over the last 20 years in the private sector.''
But some labor leaders said the governors were overreaching, and could create a measure of public sympathy for government employees' unions by shifting the conversation from whether they earn overly generous benefits to whether they should have the right to negotiate at all. ''I think it's been a galvanizing force, a seminal moment for American labor,'' said Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
Art Pulaski, the chief officer of the California State Labor Federation, said the Wisconsin standoff could encourage some Republican governors to take a harsher stance in bargaining. ''But for those with a more moderate stance, those not tied to the Republican strategy, I think they're going to hold back, and say: 'Wait a minute. The response is so vigorous and spontaneous and strong, we have to be careful how far we go on this,' '' he said.
But focusing national attention on public employees' benefits could put unions on the defensive in many states. Thomas A. Kochan, a professor of industrial relations at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he thought unions were increasingly recognizing reality. ''There has to be a new bargain in the public sector on pension costs and health care costs, and to get out front on it,'' he said. ''That helps them take that issue off the table and to focus on the issue of worker rights and the attack on unions.''
Anti-union groups, seeing this as their moment, are urging governors not to settle for economic concessions. Tim Phillips, head of Americans for Prosperity -- a conservative, free-market advocacy group that was created and financed in part by the billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch -- said Mr. Walker should push for a ''complete victory.''
''If you just did the cuts to pension and benefits without the changes to collective bargaining,'' Mr. Phillips said, ''it helps in the short term, but over the long term, benefits will creep back up again.''
Several union members protesting at Wisconsin's Capitol last week said they did not think the unions were losing by offering concessions to preserve their right to bargain. ''I don't feel that you lose when you give something to gain something,'' said Rachelle LaFave, 36, a mail carrier from Madison. ''That's how democracy is supposed to work.''
Bryan Kennedy, president of the Wisconsin branch of the American Federation of Teachers, said preserving bargaining was crucial. ''Most of our contracts are about the working conditions, about grievances and hours and vacation and sick leave and when our breaks are and what our schedules look like,'' he said.
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican who has been assertively trying to scale back public employees' benefits, pointed out that many unions had gotten state legislatures and governors to award their members benefits that the local cities and counties they were negotiating with did not want to give.
''The thing that kind of makes me laugh about this whole conversation is you have union leaders now talking about the sanctity of collective bargaining,'' said Mr. Christie, who said he had no plans to take away bargaining rights in New Jersey. ''But the collective bargaining situation is not that way when they don't get what they want. When they don't get what they want, they go to the legislature. And then they legislate those benefits that they couldn't get at the collective bargaining table.''
Mayors, whose bargaining powers are often set by state law, have been watching the battle closely. Several cities -- including Newark and Camden, N.J. -- were forced to lay off police officers when their unions failed to agree to concessions. In Toledo, Ohio, Mayor Michael P. Bell is watching with added interest.
As a young firefighter, Mayor Bell was laid off for a year before he was rehired. He eventually rose to chief. When he took office last year as an independent, he faced a $48 million deficit. He closed part of it by winning union concessions, after threatening to impose them by invoking a little-used law that lets mayors do so in ''exigent circumstances.'' Now, he said, he supports bargaining rights but wants to find a way to give the city power to alter contracts in hard times.
''In local governments and even in our school system, there's no ability to hit a reset button -- the only option that a lot of cities have is to lay off a large amount of people,'' Mr. Bell said. ''Nobody's going to come to your city if you don't have police officers or firefighters, or you're not picking up your trash.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%)

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (79%); JOHN KASICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



718 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Rallying for States' Rights, G.O.P. Legislators Tell Washington to Go Away

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Jim Robbins contributed reporting.

 BODY:
State legislatures, bolstered by the huge Republican freshman classes that were swept into power from New Hampshire to Montana last year, have intensified their attacks on federal authority in the name of states' rights.
The efforts actually began before the election, in fights over the health care bill and gun regulation, but have spread to issues including the regulation of greenhouse gases, commerce and food safety.
''There is a lot more activity on a broader front,'' said Karl Kurtz, a staff analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''Fueled by the election results, more Republicans are pursuing their agenda.'' 
In Kentucky, the State Senate is expected to take up a bill this week declaring the state a ''sanctuary'' from meddling by the Environmental Protection Agency.
In Arizona, the State Senate approved a measure this month that would exempt all products made and consumed within its boundaries from federal interstate commerce laws.
The Montana Legislature is considering a bill that would allow the state to nullify federal laws that protect endangered species. And in Georgia, a bill that would override federal monetary regulations by requiring banks to accept payment in gold or silver has survived two readings in the State House of Representatives.
''There's been a kind of ramping up,'' said Michael Boldin, the founder of the Tenth Amendment Center, a research and advocacy group in Los Angeles. Last year, Mr. Boldin said, many of the bills were simply statements of dissatisfaction or intent. This year, he said, the bills are armed with teeth and recommended penalties. The Arizona bill, for instance, would make it a felony for anyone who tried to enforce federal commerce laws.
Critics say the measures are mostly still just talk -- rhetorical flourishes shaped to criticize the Obama administration. Federal law, by dint of multiple legal precedents, almost always trumps state law. Even worse, the critics say, the effort to wrest power from Washington is distracting legislators from making tough economic and budget decisions.
''This is the theater of the absurd, and it is dangerous rhetoric,'' said Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana.
Mr. Schweitzer is a Democrat in a state where the Republican-controlled Legislature is considering, among a raft of antifederal proposals, a declaration that would require the F.B.I. to get the local sheriff's permission before making any arrests. The governor, who is from a family of ranchers, said he had just registered a cattle brand that spelled out the word ''veto.''
''I'm going to have it red hot and ready to go,'' he said.
The movement's supporters say that they are acting in the name of democracy and freedom, and that no fight could be more important. And they hope that if enough legislatures take action, their collective voice will be heard in Washington.
''I'm not sure what will happen, but obviously it is our intent to get some relief,'' said State Senator Brandon D. Smith of Kentucky, who is chairman of the Natural Resources and Energy Committee and sponsor of the resolution declaring sanctuary from the E.P.A.
Mr. Smith said the thrust of his argument is not that agencies like the E.P.A. have no authority, but rather that they have exceeded the authority they were granted by Congress.
''It sends a very clear message that there has been a lot of overreaching,'' he said of his bill, adding with the confidence of an experienced head counter that he expected only two ''no'' votes in the Senate.
Some of the measures have spread after being tried out last year on a small scale.
Utah's Legislature -- often a pioneer in challenging federal laws -- passed a bill in 2010 that authorized the state to use eminent domain protections to seize federal lands. It then appropriated $3 million for what state officials acknowledged would be an uphill legal battle to defend their stance.
This year, six more states -- Arizona, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington -- have taken up the argument, according to the American Legislative Exchange Council, a nonprofit group that supports limited government and free markets.
Clint Woods, the director of the group's energy, environment and agriculture task force, said the wave of new bills had been fueled by the Department of Interior's talk about designating ''wild lands'' that would be protected from development and creating new national monuments.
''Legislators have seen this as an expansion by the federal government,'' Mr. Woods said.
Some lawmakers supporting the drive against the federal government acknowledged the possible negative consequences. But they said the system was so broken that any federal retaliation might be an empty threat.
Montana, for example, could lose $500 million a year or more in federal money that goes to highways, parks, conservation and other programs if it nullifies federal authority over endangered species, legislative analysts said.
But the bill's sponsor, State Representative Krayton Kerns, said he did not care. ''We are being bribed by debt to fall in lockstep behind the federal government,'' he said. ''It's debt; it's not money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COMMERCIAL LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); SHERIFFS (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); MAMMALS (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); FELONIES (63%); GOVERNORS (59%); FOOD SAFETY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%)

PERSON: BRIAN SCHWEITZER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



719 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND A RISE IN AUTO SALES, EASIER CREDIT

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Detroit is crowing that the auto industry is back, but so far, at least, it is a success story built as much on a revival in lending as on the development of desirable cars.
Sales of new cars rose 11 percent, to around 11.4 million, in 2010 and are off to an even stronger start this year, according to Autodata, an industry research service. Sales of used cars have been similarly robust.
After radically scaling back auto lending during the financial crisis, banks and the lending arms of the automakers have started to issue loans more aggressively. Borrowers of all types are now finding it much easier to obtain a loan compared with a few months ago.
Even car buyers with tarnished credit histories are getting financing, in some cases without making a down payment. More than 859,000 new cars were sold to consumers with a so-called subprime credit rating in 2010, a nearly 60 percent increase from the year before, according to CNW Marketing Research. 
The revival of auto lending is emblematic of an increased appetite for risk in the American economy. Consumers, showing renewed confidence in the recovery, are opening their wallets again after putting off car purchases during the recession.
Banks, flush with deposits to lend out, have eased their standards for extending credit. And investors, who fled from the bond market during the throes of the crisis, are starting to snap up higher-risk debt as they seek higher yields.
Wall Street's loan packaging business has once again become a crucial engine for supplying money to auto and credit card lenders -- and it is happening much faster than most economists had predicted.
Nobody is suggesting an imminent return to the heady, reckless days of the housing boom, and any one of a number of factors -- like the recent surge in oil and commodities prices -- could set the recovery off track. But the gradual expansion of credit in virtually every area except real estate is an important sign that the American economy is returning to health.
The rebound in auto lending has been especially pronounced. Michael E. Maroone, the president of AutoNation, which has a coast-to-coast network of more than 200 dealerships, called it the single biggest factor spurring the sharp increase in car sales last year.
''We had people coming to our showrooms that wanted to buy, but we couldn't get them financed,'' Mr. Maroone said in an interview. ''We are now getting them the financing.''
Kevin Lauterbach, 29, an operations manager from Coral Springs, Fla., said he was surprised that so many lenders were willing to give him a loan when he went shopping for a new car in December. Although he had worked hard to repair a mildly damaged credit score, several major lenders rejected his application for a new credit card a few months earlier. But five banks offered to help him finance a car, all with no money down.
Mr. Lauterbach eventually locked in a 4.75 percent rate on a $19,000 loan from City County Credit Union of Fort Lauderdale to cover the cost of a 2008 Jeep Liberty. The 72-month loan requires payments of $150 every two weeks.
''My credit wasn't great, and what I had been hearing is that credit is tight right now,'' he said. ''But it wasn't really as difficult as I was anticipating.''
For the auto industry, the surge in sales represents a remarkable reversal. Only two years ago, Detroit's Big Three automakers were in such dire condition that they took more than $87 billion in federal aid; Chrysler and General Motors required Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection to turn themselves around, with the government's help.
The Obama administration provided other forms of assistance as well. It engineered the rescues of the CIT Group, a major lender to auto dealerships and parts suppliers, and also bailed out the troubled auto finance companies Chrysler Financial and GMAC, now known as Ally Financial.
Just as crucial, economists say, was the administration's effort to lure private investors back into what was once a $100 billion-a-year bond market for auto finance companies, according to Deutsche Bank Securities. That market had all but dried up by the end of 2008.
The federal program provided more than $11.7 billion in below-market financing to dozens of private investors -- a group that included hedge funds like FrontPoint Partners, money managers like BlackRock and Pimco, and even a retirement fund operated by the City of Bristol, Conn. -- to encourage them to resume buying bonds backed by auto loans. Although the amount of government financing was relatively small, it accomplished its goal: to revive the market for packaged consumer loans and get credit flowing again, especially to weaker borrowers.
That market stood at $36 billion in 2008, during the throes of the crisis, but by 2010 it had bounced back to almost $58 billion. Bankers and analysts project that could rise by as much as 15 percent in 2011.
''To me, it feels like it's returning to normal,'' said Ted Yarbrough, Citigroup's head of global securitized products.
Several factors contributed to the quick recovery of auto lending. Both banks and auto lenders can reap large profits on new loans, since interest rates near zero have kept the cost of their funds extremely low. Auto lending was also largely unaffected by the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulations, which reduced the fees that banks could charge for services like credit cards and overdraft protection.
In addition, auto lenders, unlike home lenders, have long issued loans expecting that the vehicle will start to lose value as soon as it is driven off the lot. That helped them avoid the costly mistakes of mortgage lenders, who underwrote loans during the boom on the belief that prices would keep going up. In fact, auto loans fared better than almost any other loan category during the crisis.
There were other reasons, too. Car dealers, unlike mortgage brokers, tend to have closer relationships with their lenders, so that a dealership that passes along a lot of bad loans might quickly find it hard to secure loans for other customers.
Meanwhile, used cars began drawing higher prices, a result of sagging new vehicle sales over the last few years. That encouraged banks to take bigger risks since they would assume ownership of a more valuable car if a borrower defaulted.
As the economic recovery gathered steam, domestic auto lenders like GMAC and Chrysler Financial flooded back into the business in the fall. That lured traditional banks like Bank of America, Banco Santander, Capital One, JPMorgan Chase, TD Bank and Wells Fargo back in a bigger way, and helped prop up lending for used vehicles.
Dealers say the frenzied competition has made it possible for weaker borrowers -- those denied credit even six months earlier -- to finally obtain loans. AutoNation, for example, said that approvals for subprime customers reached 38 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with 18 percent a year earlier, amid only a modest increase in applications.
Over all, lending to subprime borrowers has risen to about 38 percent of the auto finance market, although it is still well below its precrisis highs when it made up nearly half of all loans, according to credit bureau data from Experian.
''The biggest improvement started in December,'' said Rick Flick, who runs Ford and Chevrolet dealerships in the New Orleans area. ''The banks are getting aggressive again. They are calling us and asking why aren't we sending them more business.''
Still, lenders are typically demanding more stringent terms, including higher down payments compared with those required in the boom years. But, as Mr. Lauterbach's experience suggests, even those are starting to ease.
Meanwhile, the automakers have come up with innovations to help. One program that is currently popular: down payment assistance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Lauterbach, 29, with his 2008 Jeep Liberty. Five banks offered to help him with the financing, although his credit was not spotless. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Coming Back: Auto sales financed to borrowers with subprime credit have risen sharply in recent months. (Source: CNW Research) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BONDS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: AUTONATION INC (58%)

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (58%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



720 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Tremors From Libya Threaten to Rattle the Oil World

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
This is no oil shock -- not yet, anyway.
But the events unfolding in the Arab world, the epicenter of global oil production, are a sobering reminder that trading in oil, that mother of all commodities, is at heart a political game. Not since Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 have the politics of crude loomed so large. Like much of the Arab world, this market seems like a pocket full of firecrackers, just waiting for a match.
As rebels tightened their noose around Tripoli on Sunday, its critical oil supplies remained constricted. Production from most of Libya's oil fields was down to a trickle.
Several ports and refineries were left stricken by workers too afraid to go to work. And with most foreign oil company employees having left the country and armed men beginning to loot equipment left behind, a return to normal production appears weeks away at best. 
About 80 percent of the nation's oil production lies in rebel-held territory, though there is not a way to verify how much rebel leaders directly control.
Granted, the world can cope with a disruption of exports from Libya. But what has brought us to $100-a-barrel oil again -- and set people on edge -- is the possibility that the uprisings that toppled autocrats in Egypt and Tunisia might spread to other OPEC nations in the Middle East.
For the moment, heavyweights like Saudi Arabia can make up the difference, and big consumers, like the United States, have stored millions of barrels of oil for just this kind of emergency.
But few oil experts are surprised that the unrest has so unnerved the market. The world is thirsty for oil, and supply and demand are in delicate balance. There is little room for more disruptions in supplies. Indeed, spare capacity -- essentially that amount of extra oil that OPEC members are able to produce in a pinch -- is now about five million barrels a day. That is about 6 percent of the oil that the world consumes every day. That cushion is greater than in 2008, when it equaled about 2 percent of daily consumption, but it remains worryingly thin. And that is not even taking into account the loss of about one million barrels a day exported from Libya.
''There is a vulnerability to tightness,'' said David Knapp, senior energy economist at Energy Intelligence, a specialized publisher. ''But for now, there are enough barrels out there in commercial storage and OPEC's spare capacity and strategic reserves held by industrial countries to handle a medium-duration outage from Libya.''
The question on everyone's mind is what if this goes beyond Libya. Costanza Jacazio, an energy analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, says further unrest -- or simply fear of further unrest -- could well drive oil prices higher. ''The degree of geopolitical risk now is massive.''
Jan Stuart, an energy economist at Macquarie Securities, explained: ''This brings back the political dimension to oil-price dynamics. For the best part of the past 25 years, the Saudis have bent backwards to make sure politics would be banned from discussions about oil supplies. The risk today is we could go back the other way again.''
The price of oil had been rising steadily even before the wave of pro-democracy protests swept much of the Middle East and North Africa. A recovering global economy had convinced traders that demand for oil was going to rise by about 2 percent in 2011. Some industry experts and Wall Street seers were predicting a gradual march back to $120 and even $150. The thinking was that investors would pour money into the commodity markets.
Oil futures in New York jumped nearly $12 last week to settle at $97.88 a barrel, their highest since October 2008; in London, benchmark Brent crude traded close to $115 a barrel.
Now economists worry that high and rising energy prices could hurt the economy just as it is beginning to revive. The price of gasoline averaged $3.29 a gallon on Friday, up from $3.11 a month ago. As a rule, every 1-cent increase takes more than $1 billion out of consumers' pockets a year.
If prices keep climbing, consumers will in all likelihood tighten their belts. If prices stay high for long, the impact could be severe: every oil shock of the past 40 years has helped push the global economy into recession. Nariman Behravesh, senior economist at IHS Global Insight, said that every $10 increase in the price of a barrel of oil reduces economic growth by two-tenths of a percentage point after one year and a full percentage point over two years.
In some ways, something like this was bound to happen. This is not a ''black swan'' event -- a sudden, unexpected occurrence -- but a white swan one, said Michael A. Levi, senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations.
''You can't predict what the specific disruption there will be, but you can be sure there will be some disruption,'' he said.
To calm markets, Saudi Arabia has started to increase its crude output to more than nine million barrels a day, roughly 700,000 barrels more than at the end of 2010, Energy Intelligence reported. Saudi officials are also asking European refiners, who are most directly affected by the drop in Libyan exports, how much and what grades of crude they need for quick shipment.
And the International Energy Agency, an organization of consuming countries, also helped defuse tensions in the markets when it said Thursday that the world had ''the tools at hand to deliver adequate oil to the market,'' including the availability of emergency stocks held by consuming nations.
Much now hinges on what happens next in the Middle East. The price spikes that accompanied the two Persian Gulf wars did not have deep impacts because of they did not last long enough. But several oil price increases have preceded economic downturns.
The biggest shock followed the 1973-74 OPEC embargo, which quadrupled oil prices and helped produce stagflation, a period of slow growth, high unemployment and inflation.
The 1979 Iranian revolution caused another shortage, and again American motorists were forced to wait in long lines for gasoline. Oil prices surged, but they did not stay elevated for long, as Mexico, Nigeria and Venezuela expanded production and OPEC lost its unity. Oil prices remained low for years, and the economy through the later half of the 1980s and most of the 1990s was generally strong.
If the current unrest helps drive the price of a barrel up by $40 to $50, back to its level of three years ago, that would really hurt.
''If gasoline prices go over $4 a gallon, there could be a big psychological effect,'' Mr. Behravesh said, ''but it would have to last.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A refinery at Sirte, part of Libya's national oil company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The uprisings in Libya are taking oil prices higher. Even fears of unrest in the Middle East are enough for oil to trade higher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUSSEIN MALLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) CHART: Heading for Another Oil Shock: The price of oil adjusted for inflation, per barrel (Source: Federal Reserve
Energy Information Administration
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); POWER FAILURES (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



721 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: States at War, And Joined At the Hip

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In popular culture, one is Mars and the other is Venus -- Tony Soprano, Snooki and the Boss meet the Gilmore Girls, Mr. Blandings and Peter Duchin. ''On the Waterfront'' meets ''The Ice Storm.'' Xanadu comes to Greenwich.
Yet in truth, New Jersey and Connecticut often seem joined at the hip. There is the same demography of wealthy suburbs surrounding poor, aging cities, the same struggle for elbow room in New York's media orbit. For years, they took turns being able to claim they were the nation's wealthiest state (the Census Bureau's latest figures on median household income show New Jersey second and Connecticut third, behind Maryland). New Jersey ranks first in total tax burden and Connecticut ranks third. 
Pick your measure: percentage in poverty (8.7 in Connecticut to 8.8 in New Jersey), population older than 25 with a bachelor's degree (35.1 percent in Connecticut, 34.1 in New Jersey), the states are almost identical. Even the ethnic mix is more alike than you would think. Somehow setting ''The Sopranos'' in Westport wouldn't have quite worked, but Connecticut, not New Jersey, has the highest percentage of residents of Italian descent -- almost 20 percent in Connecticut and 17 in New Jersey.
Each has a casino economy and a turnpike from hell. Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut resigns amid sleazy scandal. July 1, 2004. Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey resigns amid sleazy scandal. Nov. 15, 2004.
So there's something predictable and slightly off kilter in the low-key neighborhood war between New Jersey's governor, Chris Christie, and his Connecticut counterpart, Dannel P. Malloy, that has seen Mr. Malloy grab the anti-Christie niche while Mr. Christie is getting more air time than the Situation.
On the one hand, it's probably a good deal for both of them. Mr. Christie, blushing violet that he is, could use a little more exposure. Mr. Malloy, as a new Democratic and heretofore unknown governor in a Republican moment, has managed to present his own style as a more balanced approach to governing in hard times than Mr. Christie's union bashing and YouTube theatrics.
Both Connecticut and New Jersey are in the upper tier of fiscally challenged states. Connecticut actually ranks first in per-capita, tax-supported debt (New Jersey is fourth), but New Jersey's credit ratings are lower and its medium-term budget issues are worse. When the Pew Center on the States did a survey in 2008 on long-term state obligations, it put both states among the 19 with the most serious pension funding problems.
The two governors' different approaches in part reflect real differences in the two states. If no place in America these days can really be considered the land of steady habits, Connecticut still has enough of that New England reserve that favors Mr. Malloy's attempt to navigate the middle over Mr. Christie's over-the-top bluster. And Connecticut voters are more liberal, bucking the Republican tide last year and ranking fourth in a recent Gallup poll of states where voters described themselves as liberals. New Jersey ranked ninth.
Conversely, at a moment when the default position is hostility to government and, by extension, government employees, no place has more government to hate than New Jersey, with politicians routinely holding down two public jobs and more municipalities per capita than any other state. Other states have crooked politicians, but it's been ahead of the curve in turning public corruption into baroque spectacle.
It is way too early to know how either act will play over the long term, how Mr. Christie's confrontational swagger will wear over time or whether Mr. Malloy will end up alienating both friends and enemies. Mr. Malloy's program of flat budgets, tax increases and union givebacks is driving against the traffic, but a report last week by Janney Capital Markets on the state's debts said Connecticut's approach was preferable to New Jersey's as credit-market policy.
Still, the bottom line is this: In two of the nation's most liberal states, with strong labor traditions, the difference between Mr. Malloy and Mr. Christie isn't whether to push back at the state's public employees and the size of government, but how. And both in their own way, Mr. Christie on cutting entitlements and Mr. Malloy on tax increases, are saying what most people don't want to hear. Like New Jersey and Connecticut, the styles are very different, but there's plenty in common, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut have contrasting styles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CENSUS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



722 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: White House Is All Sweaty? He's the Cause

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Michael Strautmanis had no sooner started his White House job as a deputy assistant to the president when his boss began badgering him.
''Am I working out? Am I eating right?'' Mr. Strautmanis recalled President Obama asking. ''And then he told me that I should use his trainer.''
The very fit president has sent other White House aides to Cornell McClellan, the trainer, a genial master tormenter who is the secret weapon behind Michelle Obama's famously toned arms and who has overseen both Obamas' exercise programs for more than a decade.
Mr. Strautmanis made one -- and only one -- appointment with Mr. McClellan, just to satisfy the president. But Mr. Obama had other plans. 
As Mr. Strautmanis walked away from a White House news conference one morning, the president caught up with him and called out, ''Strautmanis, Cornell says you're not showing up for your workouts.''
''And that's when I knew this was going to be a different experience for me,'' said Mr. Strautmanis, who has forsaken cheeseburgers, taken up egg whites and lost 20 pounds since he started twice-weekly sessions with Mr. McClellan in a gym at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
An unassuming 54-year-old with a compact body and an easy laugh, Mr. McClellan has become the unlikely man at the center of a group of top staff members who work out with him, gossip with him, talk about him and even rat one another out to him, especially when someone -- that means you, David Axelrod -- slips up and gets an extra scoop of ice cream in the White House mess. (But the real culprit, aides joke, are the M&Ms found throughout the West Wing).
''He has this gift where he works you pretty hard and you don't even realize it,'' said Mr. Axelrod, a former senior adviser to the president who shed 25 pounds on Mr. McClellan's watch. ''And then you go home and you can't lift up your arms.''
Mr. McClellan grew up practicing martial arts, eventually earning a black belt, and as a college student realized that he had a knack for working with people. He owns Naturally Fit, a personal training and wellness center in Chicago, and now spends part of his week in Washington at Mr. Obama's request.
''It was an easy sell for me, because I thought of it as kind of a duty, to serve the president,'' said Mr. McClellan, who works out with the first couple, often in the early morning, at the gym in the White House residence. Mr. and Mrs. Obama both try to exercise for at least an hour every day, and Mr. McClellan says he usually sees them two to four times a week, depending on their schedules.
The president, a well-known fitness buff, does a mixture of cardio and strength training and spends his free time playing basketball and golf. ''He is very motivated and he loves to work, so that makes it very easy for me,'' Mr. McClellan said.
People who have seen Mr. Obama at the gym, wearing black wind pants and a dark baseball cap, say that sometimes he and Mrs. Obama work out together, and that he runs hard on the treadmill, with the television tuned to ''SportsCenter'' on ESPN.
In the gym, Mr. McClellan, a father of six, seems to be one part gentle, prodding father and one part drill sergeant. ''I believe in working people as hard as possible, but as polite as possible,'' he said, laughing.
''It's not boot campish or militaryish from day one,'' he added, ''but it can go there.''
His clients can be divided into two camps -- the enthusiastic and the grudging, White House staff members say. The president and the first lady are the star students -- eager, dedicated, with the toned limbs to prove it.
Tommy Vietor, a National Security Council spokesman, and the speechwriter Jon Favreau are competitive, and Mr. McClellan sometimes pits them against Sam Kass, a young White House chef. Mona Sutphen, a deputy chief of staff who recently left the administration, and Lisa Brown, the staff secretary, are hard core, naturally fit and athletic exercise partners who push themselves. And Mr. Axelrod, Mr. Strautmanis and Pete Rouse -- the president's senior adviser, who is considered Mr. McClellan's crowning achievement, having overhauled his diet and lost 20 pounds since his early, reluctant days -- are the whiners who crack jokes and make conversation, anything to avoid sweating.
''There will be lots of e-mails or hallway chatter of 'Did he make you do that insane thing and now you can't walk?' '' Mr. Vietor said.
Though Mr. McClellan claims his shop is a gossip-free zone, staff members say they unwind there, talk about their families and get to know about the personal lives of their fellow gym rats.
''Cornell knew better what was going on in the White House than most people who worked in the White House,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, who recently left as one of Mr. Obama's top economic advisers. ''Who's up, who's down, which way things are moving. Everybody talked to Cornell.''
Some of the best gossip involved Mr. Summers himself. One day, he forgot his exercise gear and began working out -- shirtless -- on the treadmill. A frantic e-mail quickly made its way to the West Wing: did someone -- anyone -- have a shirt Mr. Summers could borrow? Mr. Strautmanis, whose office is nearby, ran one over, but the incident quickly became White House lore.
''There was a brief interval of that,'' Mr. Summers confirmed, before adding, gamely, ''I liked it better when I didn't have to see how in shape some of the president's younger aides were.''
Mr. McClellan has conspired with Mr. Strautmanis's assistant, who now orders his boss only healthy food from the White House mess. ''He has spies all over the White House,'' Mr. Strautmanis joked. ''He's got us surrounded.''
Mr. McClellan, sounding gleefully conspiratorial, put in another way: ''You kind of team up and say, 'Hey, make sure they're doing this.' It's really good when you can have a support team.''
Mr. Obama has offered to buy personal training sessions for his most recalcitrant staffers. (So far, no one has taken him up on the offer, according to several staff members.) Mr. McClellan would not say what he charges, only that his rate ''varies.'' One staff member said he paid $60 per session.
Some aides joke that the president feels guilty about having brought Mr. McClellan all the way to Washington and is trying to help drum up business for him. But the Obamas are health conscious themselves, and aides say they care about the well-being of their staff.
''They both know how hard their staffs are working, so they really want to encourage some sort of balance,'' said Susan Sher, Mrs. Obama's recently departed chief of staff.
Aides say they do not need to feel guilty about leaving their desk to work out. Not only is it acceptable to do so during lunch or an afternoon lull, it is considered beneficial for people's sanity.
''As a friend,'' Mr. Axelrod said, the president ''has always been on my butt about this, and as a result, my butt is a little bit smaller.''
He and other White House clients have helped introduce Mr. McClellan to their lifestyle, as well. For Christmas, they pitched in and bought him an iPad. Since he spends much of his day in the gym, they explained, they thought he would want to be able to get online and check his e-mail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cornell McClellan, at his Chicago gym, trains President Obama and many aides, some of whom are more willing than others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (75%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



723 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: A Three-Man Band Of Budget Cutters

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and JEFF ZELENY. 
Monica Davey reported from Chicago, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
In private, three of the Republican governors at the center of a growing national debate over public sector workers commiserate in telephone calls and e-mail messages. In public, the three -- now members, it seems, of a newly established fraternity -- sound like one another's biggest boosters.
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, whose proposal to cut collective bargaining rights for government workers has drawn thousands of protesters outside the state Capitol in Madison, has described Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana as a ''great inspiration'' and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey as a confidant.
Mr. Christie, whose is famous for his clashes with the New Jersey teachers' unions, has praised Mr. Daniels as ''a great help to me.'' And the Indiana governor, who ended collective bargaining for state workers six years ago, has defended Mr. Walker's choices. ''He is simply keeping a commitment that he made very openly in running for office,'' Mr. Daniels said in an interview over the weekend. 
Yet for all their camaraderie, significant differences exist -- both in tone and substance -- in the three governors' approaches to cutting the costs of their public work forces, limiting unions and demanding austerity. Their strategies are shaped by their states' relationships with the unions, by their personal styles and even by their political ambitions.
And while there is no immediately apparent competition among the three -- a function of age, geography and their positions on the Republican political ladder -- their budget fights will become part of their political resumes, and they know it. The degree to which the governors' approaches succeed will also help shape the party's broader message on budgets and cuts.
For now, Mr. Daniels, Mr. Christie and Mr. Walker seem to be everywhere. On Sunday, they appeared, separately, on the morning television talk shows.
Throughout the weekend, they were at the center of conversation at the National Governors Association's winter meeting in Washington.
Mr. Walker stayed in Wisconsin, where the Legislature remained in a standoff over a bill to cut the negotiating power for public sector employees. But Mr. Daniels and Mr. Christie were at the Washington meeting, often surrounded by clusters of fellow governors and their aides, offering advice and answering questions about their states' financial burdens. And in Arizona, the mere mention of Mr. Walker's name elicited a standing ovation at a weekend Tea Party gathering.
All that attention has become a point of irritation and suspicion to the governors' critics, some of whom accuse the three of trying to outdo one another with cost-cutting measures as a way to feed their political ambitions.
''Some of the more extreme ideologues among the Republican governors are exasperating the pain of this recession in order to settle old scores,'' said Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, who is critical of the fiscal approaches in New Jersey, Wisconsin and Indiana.
Of the three governors, Mr. Daniels, who is in his second term, is considered something of a role model for the others.
He is the only one of the three -- for now, at least -- who is openly considering a race for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination. He said he intended to make up his mind this spring, but he conceded that his family had deep reservations about it.
Mr. Christie says, loudly and repeatedly, that he has no interest in running for president next year, but his denials have done little to quiet the clamor from some Republicans that he run. Mr. Walker, the newest of the governors, answers questions about his political future this way: ''My only goal right now is to balance the budget.''
Mr. Walker has been in office only two months, but his relationships with Mr. Daniels and Mr. Christie began during the race last fall, when they both traveled to Wisconsin to help him campaign. It did not hurt that Mr. Walker's wife, Tonette, and Mr. Christie's wife, Mary Pat, were said to hit it off, and that both families have children around the same ages.
''It's really guys like Mitch and Chris and Tim that I've probably talked to the most about this -- and not just about this,'' Mr. Walker said, including Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, in his list of consultants as the situation in Madison boiled over.
Still, the methods employed by Mr. Walker, Mr. Daniels and Mr. Christie -- while aimed at the same general goal -- carry important differences, a fact that has left some of them answering awkward questions when asked to reflect on the others' efforts.
Mr. Daniels has pushed for education changes this year, including restrictions on collective bargaining for teachers -- part of a package of bills that Indiana's Democratic lawmakers, who are in the minority, said led them to flee the state last week in order to prevent votes from being taken.
But perhaps the most controversial measure that Indiana Republicans have proposed -- ''right-to-work'' legislation that would prohibit any requirement that employees in private sector workplaces pay union dues or fees -- was not one that Mr. Daniels initiated. In fact, to the dismay of some of those who are opposed to unions, Mr. Daniels has said he is worried that the idea ''might get in the way'' of the rest of his agenda.
''I thought it ought to really wait for a different time,'' Mr. Daniels said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
In Wisconsin, private sector workplaces are not addressed in Mr. Walker's proposal, but his plan would significantly limit collective bargaining for some 170,000 public sector workers, including many employees in local governments and school districts -- not just state workers.
Mr. Christie has certainly battled with the unions in New Jersey, demanding increases in how much the state's public employees pay for their pensions and health care. But he has not called for truncating collective bargaining rights in the way that Wisconsin's plan would.
So has Mr. Walker gone too far in Mr. Christie's eyes? Does Mr. Christie support collective bargaining for state employees while his colleagues, it seems, do not? What is the larger goal here anyway?
''Every state is different,'' Mr. Christie said on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation'' when asked whether Mr. Walker had gone too far. ''And I'm not going to micromanage Wisconsin from Trenton, N.J.
''I know Scott Walker. I like him and I trust him. And I think he believes he's doing what's in the best interest of Wisconsin, the same way I'm going to do what I think needs to be done for New Jersey, which is to reform the pension system, to roll back expensive health benefits for public sector workers, to put them more in line with the rest of the population in New Jersey, to put us on a long-term path to fiscal stability.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Govs. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Chris Christie of New Jersey. (A11)
From the top, Govs. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, Chris Christie of New Jersey and Mitch Daniels of Indiana. Their battles with public sector unions have been shaped by differences in their states' relationships with unions, by their personal styles and even by their political ambitions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRIS USHER/CBS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); MITCH DANIELS (79%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011



724 of 724 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Consider Libya No-Fly Zone

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington, and Rachel Donadio from Rome.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Obama administration officials held talks on Sunday with European and other allied governments as they readied plans for the possible imposition of a no-fly zone over Libya to prevent further killings of civilians by forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Further increasing international pressure on Colonel Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, Italy suspended a 2008 treaty with Libya that includes a nonaggression clause, a move that could allow it to take part in future peacekeeping operations in Libya or enable the use of its military bases in any possible intervention. 
''We signed the friendship treaty with a state, but when the counterpart no longer exists -- in this case the Libyan state -- the treaty cannot be applied,'' Italy's foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said Sunday in a television interview.
White House, State Department and Pentagon officials held talks with their European and NATO counterparts about how to proceed in imposing flight restrictions over Libya. A senior administration official said Sunday that no decision had been made, and expressed caution that any decision on a no-fly zone would have to be made in consultations with allies.
A diplomat at the United Nations said that any such action would require further debate among the 15 nations of the Security Council, which was unlikely to act unless there was a significant increase in state-sponsored violence in Libya, including the use of aircraft against civilians.
Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, was scheduled to meet with President Obama on Monday afternoon at the White House to discuss the deteriorating situation in Libya.
Obama administration officials said Sunday that they were also discussing whether the American military could disrupt communications to prevent Colonel Qaddafi from broadcasting in Libya. In addition, the administration was looking at whether the military could be used to set up a corridor in neighboring Tunisia or Egypt to assist refugees.
''There hasn't been discussion that I'm aware of related to military intervention beyond that, and a discussion of that nature would have to begin at the U.N.,'' a senior administration official said. But, the official added, ''I wouldn't say we've ruled anything out, either.''
Italy's treaty with Libya, signed by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi in August 2008, calls on Italy to pay Libya $5 billion over 20 years in reparations for its colonial past there. In return, Libya pledged to help block the flow of illegal immigrants to Italy and grant favorable treatment for Italian companies seeking to do business in Libya.
But the treaty also contains a nonaggression clause that some analysts said complicated Italy's position in the event of international military intervention in Libya. In it, Italy pledges not to use ''direct or indirect'' military force against Libya, or to allow the use of its territory ''in any hostile act against Libya.''
There are several United States and NATO bases in Italy that presumably would be staging areas for any action against Libya, including the United States Sixth Fleet base near Naples. After the treaty was signed, Italy had to explain to NATO that it would respect its multilateral international treaties.
An Italian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Maurizio Massari, noted that Italy had suspended the treaty, not revoked it, and would evaluate how to proceed as the conflict in Libya evolved.
At the United Nations, there was no formal discussion about Libya on Sunday, as diplomats weighed possible next steps and digested the Security Council resolutions passed Saturday night that imposed an arms embargo and economic sanctions on Libya.
An American official, who discussed United Nations deliberations on the condition that he not be identified, said the Security Council had moved more quickly on Libya than on almost any issue in recent years. The body is poised to take further steps, if warranted, like ''a rapid deterioration, a significant uptick in violence,'' he said. ''In terms of big ideas like a no-fly zone, if the international community is ready, and there is a need to impose a no-fly zone or authorize use of force, that would require another whole debate and resolution.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REFUGEES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%); FRANCO FRATTINI (53%); BAN KI-MOON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

 
