

1 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: A Doo-Wop Shop Prepares to Close, Signaling the End Of a Fading Genre

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
CLIFTON, N.J. -- The end is near for Ronnie I's Clifton Music after 40 years on Main Avenue -- yet another victim of the Internet, the economy, and changing tastes in music and shopping.
But this time it is not just a store that is dying, four years after its founder did, but perhaps a whole genre of music as well. For the aging fans of the group harmony of the Harptones and the Heartbeats, the Orioles and the Ravens, the Five Keys and the Five Satins, the passing of Clifton Music is a reminder that rock 'n' roll may never die, but one hyperbolic sect, the fading kingdom of doo-wop, just might.
In a world where fans and the remaining performers are almost invariably in their 60s and 70s, or older, no one did more to keep it alive than Ronnie Italiano, a beverage company delivery man turned doo-wop dynamo. He ran the store, which carried only doo-wop, and put out around 150 CDs, either compilations or originals he produced and recorded, and at least 50 LPs and more than 100 45s. He formed an organization, the United in Group Harmony Association, with 2,000 members at its peak, that became the community square for fans and put on 354 monthly doo-wop shows. 
His efforts, and those of others, will provide a permanent historical record, whether on dusty liner notes or on YouTube videos, that augments iconic songs like ''Rama Lama Ding Dong'' by the Edsels or ''In the Still of the Night'' by the Five Satins. But fans and collectors say that as a business, a living tradition and a part of American entertainment, doo-wop seems destined to go the way of Clifton Music.
''This music is going when we do,'' said Val Shively, owner of R & B Records in Upper Darby, Pa., who is considered the leading doo-wop collector. ''Everyone is old or dying, and no one new is coming up to replace them. If it has 10 years left, that's a lot in my opinion.''
Fellow fans say Mr. Italiano's biggest achievement may have been to bring back aging groups -- the Four Fellows, Lillian Leach and the Mellows, the Solitaires -- for a final curtain call, with nearly all of the 354 shows recorded on VHS tapes and DVDs.
But Mr. Italiano died of cancer at age 67 in 2008, the group harmony organization died with him, and his widow, Sandra, after struggling to keep the store going, has sold it to someone who wants to sell eyeglasses there. Clifton Music, with its faded green linoleum, its colored wax 45s and 33s hanging from the pressed-tin ceiling, the old Don Mattingly poster and Ronnie I's silver and turquoise show jackets hanging in the rear, is scheduled to close sometime this month.
''There's no replacement for Ronnie I; everyone knows that,'' Ms. Italiano said. ''So I'm sad because this is Ronnie's legacy, but I'm relieved to have the financial burden off my shoulders.''
A product of urban life and street-corner singers, white and black, the music boomed in the 1950s and early '60s. About 200 to 300 45s were released every week from 1955 to 1962.
But, as the faithful gloomily recount, the British Invasion of the '60s all but killed doo-wop. There was a brief revival in the 1970s. But unlike other American musical genres -- rockabilly, various forms of jazz, blues, Cajun music, bluegrass -- doo-wop never attained any sort of retro cool or developed a new generation of musicians and devotees. Aside from a few off-hour, once-a-week shows mostly on college radio, it is largely absent from the airwaves.
''It has not proved exportable either to younger people or the rest of the world,'' said Donn Fileti, who with a partner ran Relic Records, now defunct, which specialized in doo-wop reissues and documenting the music's history. ''There was a cult of doo-wop in Spain for a while and in Japan, probably in the '80s and early '90s, but it seems to have dissipated completely. Almost everyone who cares about it is in their 60s and 70s. It's a dying art form.''
It is not quite dead. Every month perhaps 100 fans gather at the Pleasure Lounge, a frayed nightspot surrounded by warehouses, cheap motels and used-car lots off Route 46 in South Hackensack, for the North Jersey Rhythm & Blues and Doo Wop Party. Regulars spin treasured 45s. Sometimes vintage groups like the Solitaires perform a cappella.
A handful of acts still perform, with perhaps the most popular being Kenny Vance and the Planotones, led by a former member of Jay and the Americans. And a few of the original bands, augmented by younger replacements, still work at oldies shows. Willie Winfield, 82, of the Harptones, who began singing on 119th Street in Harlem in the early 1950s, said that four of the six original members still remained and that the group had six concert dates scheduled, including a Bahamas cruise.
''Just like rock 'n' roll is here to stay, doo-wop will be here forever,'' Mr. Winfield said, optimistically.
Admirers say the best of the music, particularly the gospel-tinged music of the black groups viewed as doo-wop's greatest artists, is a vital link in pop music that morphed into Brill Building pop and Motown soul. But whether because of an absence of charismatic individual stars, musical shortcomings or the way it has been relegated to ''Happy Days'' nostalgia, doo-wop has been marginalized as tacky music stuck in time.
''It's music people tend to trivialize and make a mockery of,'' said Christine Vitale, a rarity as a woman in her 40s in a field dominated by older men, who broadcasts the Group Harmony Alley on Sunday nights on WFDU at Fairleigh Dickinson University and puts on shows that mix doo-wop with other musical genres, whether Latin soul or blues.
''If people took more time to study the whole body of work,'' she said, ''there's a lot of really good music, but it's usually just dismissed as silly and immature.''
At least Ronnie I's most famous artifact is being taken care of. In 1988, Mr. Italiano scraped together $3,000 in donations for a 2,000-pound granite tombstone dedicated to the pioneering rock 'n' roll singer Frankie Lymon of the Teenagers, which then sat in the shop for almost a quarter-century after his widow decided she did not want it placed at his grave.
Ms. Italiano said it has been moved to a friend's iris garden, where it, if not the music, will rest in peace after all these years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SANDRA ITALIANO Owner of Ronnie I's Clifton Music in New Jersey
Ms. Italiano, top, at Ronnie I's Clifton Music, which is closing this month. Bob Campbell, above left, drove to the store from Philadelphia last month. Tom Hight, right, from Pennsylvania, had bought records online from the shop but had never been there.(A24)
 Donn Fileti, who with a partner ran Relic Records, now defunct, at the Pleasure Lounge, which hosts doo-wop parties. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); AGING (71%); HISTORY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



2 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Clashes Erupt in Western China

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Edy Yin contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- An outburst of violence in a remote desert region of western China has underscored the tensions over Chinese rule in ethnic-minority areas just days before an important national policy meeting here in Beijing. Reports from the region said about 20 people were killed on Tuesday night in clashes in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in China's far west.
The tensions have been growing during the past year in ethnic Uighur and Tibetan areas, and violence involving security forces and civilians is becoming a regular occurrence. 
Questions about the governing and security of those regions are expected to be raised next week during annual meetings here of the National People's Congress and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, both attended by delegates from throughout China. Delegates often discuss the most important political and economic issues in their provinces, regions or cities, though their ultimate purpose is to approve policy decisions already made at the highest levels of the Communist Party.
As with virtually all such events in remote parts of China, there were competing accounts of the violence on Tuesday, which took place in the town of Yecheng, known in Uighur as Kargilik. The town is populated mostly by Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking group whose members generally practice Sunni Islam.
A report on a Web site run by the propaganda bureau of Xinjiang said Wednesday that 13 people were killed and many others wounded when nine attackers armed with knives stabbed people in a crowd on Happiness Road in Yecheng. The police shot dead seven attackers and captured the other two, the report said. The attack began at 6 p.m. on Tuesday.
Global Times, an officially approved newspaper, reported that the attackers killed at least 10 people. The newspaper cited a statement from the local government. Xinhua, the state news agency, reported that the police killed at least two attackers.
A man who answered the telephone at a police station in Yecheng said he could not provide any information. A local policeman told Agence France-Presse that a dozen attackers armed with axes attacked people in a market in Yecheng. The policeman said that most of the victims were ethnic Han, though there were Uighur victims, too, and that the police had shot five of the attackers, all Uighurs.
Radio Free Asia, whose journalists talk regularly to Uighurs in the region, reported that a group of Uighurs had killed 3 Han, and that security officers then killed 12 Uighur youths.
''China's demonstrated lack of transparency when it comes to unrest in East Turkestan necessitates deep speculation of official Chinese claims,'' said Alim Seytoff, president of the Uyghur American Association, an advocacy group based in Washington. In his written statement, Mr. Seytoff used the name that many Uighurs prefer for the Uighur-dominated parts of Xinjiang.
The long-serving party chief of Xinjiang, Wang Lequan, was replaced in 2010, after a surge in violence in the region. Some Uighurs held out hope that the new party leader, Zhang Chunxian, the top official in Hunan Province, would adopt a softer line and try to examine the discriminatory policies that had led to the rise in ethnic tensions. But cycles of crackdowns and violence have continued. Last July, clashes erupted in the towns of Hotan and Kashgar, which lie on either side of Yecheng County.
''Zhang Chunxian brought a new style, but the policies haven't changed,'' Nicholas Bequelin, a senior Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch, said in an e-mail. ''They were laid out at the Xinjiang work conference in 2010. These policies promised a rapid boost to the local economy -- which has happened -- but absent from this blueprint were the issues that top the list of the Uighur discontent: discrimination, Han in-migration and the ever more invasive curbs on language, culture, religious expression.''
Mr. Bequelin added that the one notable change since Mr. Zhang took office was a greater recognition that socioeconomic discrimination against Uighurs needed to be addressed. ''But not much has been done in this respect,'' he said, ''and the polarization between Uighurs and Chinese continues to grow.''
The biggest eruption of violence in Xinjiang in recent years occurred in July 2009, when frustrated Uighurs took to the streets of Urumqi, the regional capital. The Chinese government reported that at least 197 people were killed and more than 1,700 injured, most of them ethnic Han. Uighur groups outside China say many Uighurs not involved in carrying out the violence were killed, tortured or detained by security forces.
Chinese officials often attribute the violence to what they call ''separatist'' forces, and point to a shadowy group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement. Uighur advocates say no such group exists; they contend that tensions arise because of Han discrimination and policies that put Uighurs at a disadvantage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police officers last year patrolled parts of the Xinjiang region in western China, where violence broke out again this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); NEWS REPORTING (68%); RELIGION (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); WRITERS (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (51%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (94%); XINJIANG, CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); TIBET (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



3 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Belarus Sees 'Dead End' in European Pressure for Reform

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Diplomatic rancor flared anew on Wednesday between Belarus and the European Union, as the former Soviet republic accused the bloc of pursuing a ''dead-end'' policy of escalation. 
At the center of the dispute is the human rights record of President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko's government, regarded as the most authoritarian in Europe. Western governments have been gradually increasing pressure on it in the hope that political and economic isolation will force political liberalization. But a move by the European Union on Tuesday to impose new sanctions touched off a cycle of diplomatic retaliation and counter-retaliation that has sharply worsened the already fraught relations between Belarus and the West.
''Brussels and the capitals of the European Union should not forget that tactics of intimidation do not work on Belarus,'' the Belarus Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. ''Under conditions of unilateral pressure, the normalization of relations is not possible.''
The new sanctions adopted by the European Union on Tuesday, meant to punish Belarus for the continued persecution of Mr. Lukashenko's opponents, included a travel ban and asset freeze for 21 Belarussian officials ''responsible for the repression of civil society and the democratic opposition,'' a statement from the union said. They were imposed on top of similar sanctions already in place against more than 200 officials, including Mr. Lukashenko himself.
They stem from a violent crackdown on antigovernment protesters after a presidential election in December 2010 that international observers called deeply flawed. The United States, which has not had an ambassador in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, for years, has imposed comparable sanctions.
In response to the European move, Belarus asked the union's envoy in Minsk and the Polish ambassador to Belarus to return to their capitals for consultations. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's high representative for foreign affairs, countered by requesting the recall from Minsk of all 27 member nations' ambassadors ''in an expression of solidarity and unity.'' The 27 embassies will be left in the hands of charges d'affaires, diplomats who are a rung below ambassadors in rank.
The deterioration of relations with the West has left Belarus isolated and almost completely dependent on economic assistance from Russia, its longtime patron. On Wednesday, Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's prime minister, said that he was ''sorry'' about the latest dispute, but that it would not affect Russia's relations with Belarus.
The country, which shares borders with three European Union members -- Poland, Latvia and Lithuania -- has been reeling from its worst economic crisis since the collapse of the Soviet Union, and there have been increasingly desperate calls from within Belarus for reform.
So far, Mr. Lukashenko, who has ruled the country since 1994, has been unyielding.
Human rights groups say that opposition activists and independent journalists are frequently harassed and arrested in the country, at times for seemingly absurd reasons. Last week, an activist named Pavel Vinogradov was arrested and sentenced to 10 days in prison for organizing an antigovernment protest on a square in Minsk. Instead of people, though, the protest was populated by plush toys.
One toy, a gray one-eyed rabbit, held a sign reading, ''The cops ripped out my eye.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) BELARUS (98%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); POLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATVIA (78%); BELGIUM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



4 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2371 words

HEADLINE: Paycheck 101

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
EVER since the deep recession hit four years ago, many colleges have been rethinking their continuing education programs, straining to figure out how best to help the many unemployed Americans who have looked to them as a lifeline.
With the unemployment rate still stubbornly high, this rethinking has led to a powerful trend in which many schools, whether prestigious state universities or workhorse community colleges, are trying harder than ever to tailor their continuing-education offerings to where the job openings are -- and where the jobs of tomorrow will be.
The University of California, Los Angeles has established a program in ''global sustainability'' that includes courses on renewable energy and green marketing. With the nation's exports booming, Miami Dade College has expanded its program to train people to become private customs brokers -- facilitators of overseas shipping. Seeing how Google, Facebook and Twitter have exploded in popularity, New York University and Rutgers University have set up programs in digital marketing. 
''We've become much more focused, much more agile and much more driven by what the data is telling us on where the jobs are,'' said Bob Templin, president of Northern Virginia Community College. ''We're very market-oriented now, whereas before we would offer the courses that people were interested in teaching and we'd see who would show up. In the last 24 months, we've thoroughly reorganized our continuing-education unit, and we now refer to it as 'Work Force Development in Continuing Education.' ''
Even though nearly 13 million Americans are still out of work, many employers complain that they cannot find the right people to fill myriad job openings -- for example, specialists in medical information technology or operators of computer-controlled manufacturing machinery. All told, the nation's employers have 3.4 million job openings, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- a number of jobs that if filled could cut the unemployment rate, currently 8.3 percent, to around 6 percent.
Realizing this, many politicians, businesses and economic development officials are pressing schools with continuing-education programs to do their utmost to upgrade workers' skills. Not only is the effort helping the jobless find work and employers find workers, it is also helping to lift the hobbled economy and increase the nation's industrial competitiveness, meaning, presumably, fewer jobs lost to China, India and other countries. Continuing-education programs often give students certificates attesting to their upgraded skills without giving them formal academic credits or degrees.
Sensitive to employers' needs, Northern Virginia Community College, with six campuses and more than 75,000 students, has begun offering continuing-education programs in cybersecurity to help protect computer networks, telephone systems and the power grid. And with satellite and computer data ever more plentiful, the school has expanded its courses in geospatial information systems, which can help federal agents track terrorists or alert transportation officials where deer commonly cross roads and cause accidents.
''The old ways of describing continuing education don't fit anymore,'' Mr. Templin said. ''Most of our students are adults who are there to skill up and change careers. They permeate the entire institution and everything we do.''
Henry Merrill, president of the American Association for Adult and Continuing Education, sees a common denominator in what schools are offering and students are pursuing. ''People have really been going where the money is,'' he said. ''The liberal arts and humanities kind of continuing-education programs haven't been as attractive to people. Schools haven't worked as hard to keep them alive and enroll people in them, not nearly as much as programs that have some connection to workplace skills and professional development.''
After completing a four-year stint in the Army in 2008, Ian Sullivan, 30, enrolled at Northern Virginia Community College to ''skill up'' in geospatial information systems. Mr. Sullivan, a 2004 graduate of James Madison University, where he majored in geology, did a lot of mapping work while in the army, using data from satellites and drones to help build bases and otherwise assist the American military surge in Iraq.
''I found I knew just enough to get myself in trouble,'' he said. ''I could make simplified maps, but I didn't understand the science behind it. Very quickly I realized I needed additional education to bring myself up to the same level as other geography professionals.''
Over two years of classes -- he said he much preferred in-person classroom study to taking courses online -- he learned how to use mountains of electronic data from satellites and aircraft to make elaborate two- and three-dimensional maps showing roads, buildings, railroads, even fire hydrants.
''I paid about $350 a semester, less than $2,000 to acquire the additional skills,'' said Mr. Sullivan, who obtained his certificate in geospatial technology in December. ''It was obviously a good deal.'' He has already found a job doing sophisticated mapping work for BAE Systems, a company that develops defense, security and aerospace systems.
President Obama has recognized the important role that the nation's 1,200 community colleges and their continuing-education programs play in supplying employers with workers possessing in-demand skills.
''Everybody in America should be able to get those skills at a community college,'' Mr. Obama said in a Feb. 13 speech at Northern Virginia Community College. ''Companies looking to hire should be able to count on these schools to provide them with a steady stream of workers qualified to fill those specific jobs.'' In that speech, Mr. Obama proposed creating an $8 billion Community College to Career Fund, with the goal of training two million workers for good-paying jobs in growing industries.
Stacey Horricks opted to return to school after leaving her job overseeing the production of background music tracks for television programs and video games. With a longtime interest in marketing, she decided to enroll in a six-course program at New York University in digital media marketing.
For her course in ''digital strategy,'' she and several classmates collaborated on an elaborate PowerPoint presentation proposing how the L'Oreal company's Diesel brand, popular with many men, could create and market a fragrance aimed at women 18 to 24. With that 43-slide presentation in hand, Ms. Horricks, 35, applied for several unpaid internships, and to her surprise, landed a full-time paying job as a digital strategist with the JAR Group, an interactive marketing firm, before she had even completed the N.Y.U. program.
Explaining her switch to digital marketing, she said, ''I was looking at video games and the interactive marketing they do, and I wanted to go in that direction and be in front of the wave, instead of being crushed by it.''
In New Jersey, Rutgers University has ''as many students each year in continuing education -- 50,000 -- as we do each year in all of our degree programs,'' said David Finegold, Rutgers' senior vice president for lifelong learning -- its term for continuing education.
Rutgers plays a major role in what New Jersey calls its Talent Networks. These networks, established in six key sectors including pharmaceuticals and transportation and logistics, work to match laid-off workers and new graduates with employers' needs. The networks' coordinators often turn to Rutgers or other state colleges for their expertise and statewide reach to find people with the right skills or to provide courses that help jobless workers qualify for openings. At the same time, the Talent Networks help Rutgers identify which fields its continuing education programs should address.
''There's certainly been high demand in health care,'' Mr. Finegold said. ''Virtually all the employment growth over the past decade in New Jersey has been in health care.''
After 18 years as a food-process engineer with Campbell's Soup in Camden, N.J., Carrie Greisser concluded it was time to upgrade her managerial skills. At the time, she oversaw a team of eight scientists, who did research on Campbell's soups, Prego tomato sauce and Swanson broth. She didn't think it worth the time and effort to get an M.B.A., so she instead enrolled in a Rutgers program offering a certificate of management in science and technology. The program adds ''another dimension to my leadership skills,'' said Ms. Greisser, 43. ''It has helped me be a more successful business partner within the organization.''
To her, a major benefit of the program was studying alongside millennials 15 and 20 years younger. She said it was valuable to mix with students from a different age group and with different perspectives. She nevertheless complained that her weekends were consumed by schoolwork, leaving little time for her family.
''A lot of folks with masters' in science do not have well-rounded educations,'' she said, ''and it takes awhile for them to understand the business implications of what they do. When someone has this basic business course knowledge, it puts them in a spot to contribute right off the bat every day.''
At Miami Dade College, the provost, Rolando Montoya, said that school officials were in ''constant communications with the Chamber of Commerce and different industries in the private sector about their employment needs.'' He said that the health care industry was booming in Florida, just as it is in New Jersey, and his school had broadened its continuing-education programs to meet that sector's demand. With the state vulnerable to hurricanes, the college is also training more insurance adjusters to meet the needs of property and casualty insurers.
''One advantage of continuing education is we have the flexibility to put something together relatively fast,'' Dr. Montoya said. ''When we are working with associate degrees or college credits, we have to go through a very rigorous academic review. That takes time. For continuing education, we can react very quickly to the opportunity.''
N.Y.U. created its digital program in the fall of 2006, and eight students received its certificate in digital media marketing that academic year. Last year, 117 students received such certificates, after taking courses like Web Analytics or Strategic Search Engine Marketing Campaign Planning and Execution. To receive a ''D.M.M.'' certificate, students have to complete six courses, costing about $800 each.
''It's a great investment,'' said Jackie Vendetti, a University of Pennsylvania graduate in psychology who was ready to change careers after working seven years in video production, most recently as an account manager. An Internet search about interactive marketing led her to N.Y.U. There she was impressed by the professors' expertise, their connections with industry professionals and their willingness to help with everything from drafting resumes to prepping for job interviews. Certificate in hand, she has landed a job in digital engagement for the American Red Cross.
''Without my experience at N.Y.U., I wouldn't have gotten this job,'' said Ms. Vendetti, 42. ''But they were also looking for the customer skills that I brought from my past experience. I'm not a newbie right out of college. I've been in the working world for 20 years.''
At Sinclair Community College in Dayton, Ohio, the president, Steven L. Johnson, took an unusual step five-and-a-half years ago, creating a vice president's position with the sole responsibility of work force development, including consulting with employers about their personnel needs. The vice president, Deborah L. Norris, is fond of saying, ''Community is our middle name.''
''We have seen this increasing call for us to be more closely aligned with employers,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''We have this terrible dissonance -- we have all these unemployed people across the nation, and we have employers who say, 'We can't find the people we want to hire; they don't have the skills.' A lot of us in higher education have been talking about how we can serve the economy, and that means how do we help train the work force to meet the economy's needs.''
Sinclair has an advanced manufacturing program to train people how to run factory robots and computer-controlled metal-cutting machines -- skills that few laid-off factory workers have. Sinclair also offers courses in ''advanced materials,'' in which students learn, among other things, about lightweight composites for aircraft construction.
Going well beyond what many schools do, Sinclair is working closely with state and local officials and business groups to help figure out how to attract and nurture industry. After the closing of the area's huge General Motors and Delphi auto parts plants, Sinclair is working with government and business to attract a fast-growing industry: unmanned aerial vehicles, also known as drones. President Obama signed a law on Feb. 14 allowing drones to be used for many commercial activities, including crop dusting, selling real estate, checking pipelines for cracks and monitoring oil spills and wildlife. The Teal Group, an aerospace consulting firm, estimates that $94 billion will be spent on such unmanned systems over the next decade.
Dayton -- home of the Wright Brothers and the location of the huge Wright-Patterson Air Force Base -- has considerable aviation expertise, and the state of Ohio has given Dayton a planning grant to develop the drone industry and its anticipated thousands of jobs.
Sinclair Community College is part of the effort. After consulting with industry experts, it is offering a certificate in unmanned aerial systems, with courses in piloting the vehicles remotely, maintaining them and operating their cameras. Seventy students are already taking classes in that program, with 67 more planning to this spring.
''Sinclair is working with us to anticipate what the training needs of business will be in the future,'' said Jeffrey C. Hoagland, president of the Dayton Development Coalition, an economic development group. ''That's a little risky. But at the end of the day, it's worth the reward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUCCESS: Stacey Horricks enrolled in a program at New York University in digital media marketing and landed a full-time job as a digital strategist with the JAR Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
 MAPPING: Ian Sullivan brushed up on geospatial information systems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON JENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); GREEN MARKET (74%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (67%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (62%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



5 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Bonuses Dip From Fallout On Wall St.

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
9:07 p.m. Updated
It is apparently going to take more than shrinking bank profits to put a big dent in Wall Street bonuses.
The total payout to security industry workers in New York is forecast to drop only 14 percent during this bonus season, according to a report issued on Wednesday by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli. By comparison, profits last year plunged 51 percent.
''The securities industry, which is a critical component of the economies of New York City and New York State, faces continued challenges as it works through the fallout from the financial crisis and adjusts to regulatory reforms,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement. 
Hurt by the European debt crisis, a sluggish economic environment at home and the introduction of new regulations that have threatened once-profitable business lines, the nation's largest banks had a weak 2011. Goldman Sachs reported that profit dropped 67 percent from 2010. Morgan Stanley's earnings fell more than 40 percent.
In all, securities firms in New York made an estimated $13.5 billion in 2011, down sharply from $27.6 billion in 2010, according to the comptroller's estimates. It is the second consecutive year that Wall Street's profit fell by more than half.
''The financial industry is in the midst of structural change,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the New York City Independent Budget Office. ''It's not just the boom and bust cycle we've seen in the past.''
Despite the difficult environment, New York firms paid roughly $20 billion in year-end cash compensation to their employees. The average bonus was $121,150, down just 13 percent from the year before as the head count shrank. In 2006, the year before the financial crisis, the average investment bank employee took home a bonus of $191,360.
But the comptroller's estimates do not include noncash compensation given for last year and so may not give the full picture given that many banks dole out a larger portion of their annual payouts in stock.
Still, a dip in year-end cash compensation is cause for concern for New York government officials. Before the financial crisis, Wall Street accounted for 20 percent of the state's tax revenue. Last year, that tally was 14 percent. For New York City, the share dropped to 7 percent of tax revenue from 13 percent over the same period.
''The city budget is dependent on a very small group of people - the 1 percent, if you will,'' said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. ''If the 1 percent isn't doing well, the city's not doing well.''
Not only is it local and state governments that are feeling the pinch of lower Wall Street pay. High-end restaurants, luxury goods stores and the real estate market in New York stand to suffer as well. Mr. DiNapoli estimates that every job lost in the securities industry in New York costs two city jobs in other industries.
For the Wall Street firms themselves, compensation has presented a quandary. It is their biggest cost and banks have been cutting thousands of jobs amid the worst year for banks since the financial crisis. Yet at the same time, keeping pay relatively stable is critical to retaining and rewarding employees.
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said at an investor conference on Tuesday that even in tough times, he would not pay his employees less than the going rate.
''We are going to pay competitively,'' Mr. Dimon told a roomful of analysts and investors at the conference. ''We need top talent. You cannot run these businesses with second-rate talent.''
Wall Street continues to be a lightning rod for politicians and critics who contend that the industry's pay packages are too high. In 2010, the average pay, including bonuses, in the securities industry in New York City hit $361,180. (Figures are not yet available for 2011.) At that level, Wall Street paychecks are 5.5 times higher than those in the rest of the private sector.
Banks are wrestling with ways to trim the tab, including paying more stock and less cash. At Morgan Stanley, for instance, cash bonuses were capped at $125,000 - a small fortune to many Americans, but a pittance for investment bankers and traders used to seven-figure payouts.
Some top executives at the bank, including James P. Gorman, the chief executive, deferred the entire cash portion of their bonuses.
''It's a pickle,'' said Alan Johnson, a compensation consultant who advises big banks on their pay plans. ''Paying employees and giving attention to the external constituents, be they politicians or regulators, is a very delicate balance.''
As Wall Street struggles to adapt to leaner times, government officials are asking themselves what it means if the industry never returns to its heights before the crisis.
''Local and state politicians see this as a cycle we've seen a million times,'' Ms. Gelinas of the Manhattan Institute said.
''They're kind of conditioned to kick the can down the road, because down the road, Wall Street comes and rescues them. The problem is, they're not looking at the structural change,'' she said.
In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. DiNapoli said that while he believed that ''the ups and downs and the cycles are always there'' on Wall Street, he and other state officials had been forced to prepare for the possibility that securities firms might never be able to hoist up the local and regional tax base.
''This could be the new normal,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller, said the state must prepare for sustained lower profits on Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); EURO CRISIS (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



6 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Year-End Economic Data Points to a Better 2012

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The economy grew at a slightly faster pace in the final three months of last year, and Americans earned more income than previously reported. That could set the stage for stronger growth this year.
The Commerce Department said Wednesday that the economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the October-December quarter, the fastest pace since the spring of 2010. It exceeded the previous estimate of 2.8 percent and was better than the growth rate of 1.8 percent in the third quarter of 2011. 
Most of last quarter's growth stemmed from a jump in company restocking. That happened because businesses rebuilt inventories that had been depleted last summer. Stockpiling is expected to slow sharply this quarter. And as it slows, economic growth could, too.
But economists stressed that the fundamental drivers of the economy -- incomes, consumer spending and business investment -- are rising. They will most likely sustain modest growth this year.
Expectations for growth this quarter are slightly better than they were a month ago. Economists project that the economy will expand at a roughly 2 percent annual pace in the current quarter and about 2.5 percent for the full year, according to the National Association for Business Economics. Last year's growth rate was 1.7 percent.
In its first report in January on fourth-quarter growth, the government had estimated that incomes rose only slightly. That estimate was revised Wednesday to show incomes grew much more than previously thought.
After taxes, inflation-adjusted incomes rose 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter.
And in the third quarter, incomes rose 0.7 percent, compared with earlier estimates of a 1.9 percent drop.
Economists had worried that growth would not be sustainable without more income gains. Wednesday's report showed that households were in better financial shape than many had expected.
Some economists detect signs of a self-fulfilling cycle in which more jobs fuel more spending and pay, which spark further hiring and spending.
''Today's figures give encouraging evidence of a virtuous cycle developing where incomes and consumption move up together,'' said Nigel Gault, an economist at IHS Global Insight.
Higher incomes should also make it easier for consumers to absorb higher gas prices and keep spending on other items.
''The consumer is in a better position to weather higher gasoline prices than appeared to be the case prior to these revisions,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief economist at MFR, wrote in a note to clients.
A big reason for the higher estimate of growth in the October-December quarter was that consumers and businesses spent more than first thought.
Imports, which subtract from the gross domestic product, rose by a smaller amount. G.D.P. is the broadest measure of the nation's output of goods and services.
The savings rate was revised higher. Americans saved 4.5 percent of their incomes in the October-December quarter. That was down slightly from the third quarter. But it topped the previous 3.7 percent estimate for the fourth quarter.
Consumer spending rose 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter, powered by a jump in spending on autos and other long-lasting goods. That was an improvement from the third quarter. And it was much better than spending during the spring, when high gas prices nearly brought consumer spending to a standstill.
Growth would have been stronger last quarter if not for a steep drop in government spending. Cuts in federal defense spending, along with reduced spending at the state and local levels, shaved nearly a full point off growth.
Recent data has made many analysts more optimistic about this year's prospects. Companies have stepped up hiring, pushing the unemployment rate down for five straight months, to 8.3 percent.
In another report, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago said its business barometer, a measure of manufacturing in the Midwest, rose to a seasonally adjusted 64 in February, from 60.2 in January. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy.
Some trends likely to slow growth in the current quarter are still good for consumers. The warm winter weather will most likely mean Americans will not have to spend as much to heat their homes.
Still, growth could be held back this year by rising gas prices, which have jumped 30 cents in the past month. That forces consumers to spend more for the same amount of gas and leaves less money for other purchases.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Most Regions Experienced Modest Growth: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before Nov. 18. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



7 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2166 words

HEADLINE: If Twitter Is a Work Necessity

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

 BODY:
WHEN Anne Klein shut down its designer line in 2008, Eileen McMaster was among the fashion professionals there who found themselves without jobs. After years of working long hours, she took some time off, turning her attention to improving her health, becoming a Pilates instructor and wellness consultant along the way.
Now, with signs that the struggling economy is slightly improving, she is looking to get back into the fashion industry. To help strengthen her position in the job market, she returned to the classroom last year to develop expertise in social media that she can layer on top of her deep marketing and corporate communications experience.
''I didn't have the social media savvy in the way I do in other areas of marketing,'' said Ms. McMaster, 44, of North Babylon, N.Y., who signed up for the social media marketing boot camp online courses at Mediabistro.com. ''When I left fashion, social media wasn't even something we were doing in the industry. Fast-forward four years, and if you are a brand and you are not on social media, you are missing a huge audience.'' 
For midcareer executives, particularly in the media and related industries, knowing how to use Twitter, update your timeline on Facebook, pin on Pinterest, check in on Foursquare and upload images on Instagram are among the digital skills that some employers expect people to have to land a job or to flourish in a current role.
''Six months ago, Pinterest wasn't on everyone's radar,'' she said. ''Because I am taking these courses, I am not behind.''
Pamela Tate, president and chief executive of the Council for Adult and Experiential Learning, based in Chicago, said digital literacy, including understanding social networking, is now a required skill.
''They are essential skills that are needed to operate in the world and in the workplace,'' she said. ''And people will either need to learn through formal training or through their networks or they will feel increasingly left out.''
For most people looking for a job, she said, it is vital that they understand how to use LinkedIn and other social tools to network and present themselves online. ''If you don't have a LinkedIn or Facebook account, then employers often don't have a way to find out about you,'' she said.
To help bridge the gap, major universities, community colleges, online educational businesses from Lynda.com to ed2go.com offer continuing education classes in digital media, including social media skills, Web design, search optimization and Web analytics.
The University of San Francisco has an Advanced Social Media certificate that can be earned in an eight-week online course. New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies offers courses where students can also earn certificates within its business programs.
Harvard's Extension School has a social media marketing course for $1,900 aimed not at midcareer executives, but at younger marketers who need help learning how to integrate social media at their companies.
At Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism, Sree Sreenivasan, dean of student affairs and a professor who has been teaching digital journalism and skills for more than 16 years, began teaching continuing education classes in social media in 2010.
With students, Professor Sreenivasan said his goal is to ''make them think really carefully about what they do and when they do it on social media.''
''We have to think about social media in a new strategic way,'' he said. ''It is no longer something that we can ignore. It is not a place to just wish your friends happy birthday. It is a place of business. It is a place where your career will be enhanced or degraded, depending on your use of these tools and services.''
While the classes are meant for working journalists, people from many different fields have signed up. In addition to the two courses offered for nondegree students last fall and spring, Professor Sreenivasan and Ernest R. Sotomayor, assistant dean, career services and continuing education, organized a weekend of panels and workshops in late January for 500 people after a similar weekend conference approach drew 300 students last May.
Participants paid up to $200 for lectures and panels that began on a Friday evening with Fred Wilson, the venture capitalist, talking about the future of social networking, and Vadim Lavrusik, who oversees journalism initiatives at Facebook, offering insight on how to use the platform for reporting, content creation and sharing.
Over the next two days, the discussions ranged from how to build a community using social networking tools to how social media is changing the way people watch television.
For those participants, who wanted one-on-one attention from an experienced social media user, the ''social media doctors'' were in the house.
Stationed at small tables with laptops in the school's lounge, two dozen volunteers met with people throughout the weekend, offering guidance on topics like how to set up a Twitter account, create an audio recording on SoundCloud and how to take a Tumblr blog to the next level.
A professional photographer was nearby for participants who needed a profile photo for their online presence. There was a line of people waiting on his services both days.
The idea behind the ''doctors'' was to give people some individual instruction at a conference setting, said Liz Borod Wright, a freelance writer who works with Linda Bernstein, another freelance writer, to help Professor Sreenivasan teach the classes. ''They are looking at your Facebook page, your Twitter account, your LinkedIn account and giving guidance on what is most relevant to you,'' she said.
Dr. Kate Uraneck, 53, a doctor and emergency disaster preparedness official for New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene said she attended the weekend program to learn more about social networking tools. A graduate of Columbia journalism school, she heard about it through the school's alumni network.
''Within my field of emergency preparedness, social media is taking on a more prominent role,'' she said, noting how government and Red Cross officials turned to Twitter and Facebook to get the word out during Hurricane Irene. ''I wanted to get more knowledge about it.''
Dr. Uraneck emphasized that she does not have social media responsibilities as part of her job. She met with one of the social media doctors to learn more about how to use her personal account, @thedisasterist, more effectively. One of her chief goals, she said with a laugh, was to better understand the role of the hashtag in the Twitter system.
She sat down with one of the most experienced volunteers: Serbino Sandifer-Walker, a fellow alumna of Columbia's journalism school who is a multimedia journalism professor at Texas Southern University in Houston. Professor Sandifer-Walker said she was interested in not only learning about new platforms during the conference, but also seeing how Columbia's journalism school approached teaching social media skills because a similar continuing education class is being explored at her university.
''We are looking at creating a course that would be good for seasoned professionals, people who want to develop skills to move their career to the next level,'' she said. ''For the program to be strong, we know that it will be important to keep up with all of the changes.''
Educators also say skills classes have to help translate what seems to be a different language -- hashtags, mentions, heart.
For Dr. Uraneck, her advice on Twitter was straightforward: ''Use it to inform, enlighten, bring value,'' she said. ''Engage.''
Over the next hour, Professor Sandifer-Walker, using layman terms, explained to Dr. Uraneck how Twitter can be used to find people around the world who share similar passions and interests. They talked about the importance of sharing links to useful, relevant content and looking for organizations and people who did the same.
They also discussed how interacting with people on Twitter is an important part of both building and joining a community. And how a hashtag is a useful way to help discover and follow topics or issues on Twitter.
''To me, just learning about mentions and hashtags was almost worth the price of admission,'' Dr. Uraneck said. ''I had picked up books on Twitter but now I understand it. I also understand the relationship-building piece, being responsive and the give-and-take that goes with that.''
Several businesses also offer online courses to help people understand social networking.
For years, Mediabistro.com, now a division of WebMediaBrands, which publishes blogs about social media and sponsors trade shows, has offered a robust lineup of digital media courses for media professionals, including workshops on blogging basics and podcasting.
In 2007, there were 150 workshops and courses about digital media and technology but none specifically about social media, according to Carmen Scheidel, Mediabistro's vice president for education and events.
Last year, she said, there were 190 workshops and courses in the digital media and technology program with 32 courses dedicated specifically to social media topics that included social media metrics and marketing on Facebook and Twitter. Many of these courses are now offered online.
''In general, the digital natives are earlier in their careers, and they are not the ones taking these types of classes,'' Ms. Scheidel said. ''It tends to be people who are very accomplished in their careers but are new to social media. It is an interesting mix.''
Fueling interest in learning has been a sharp increase in the number of employers looking for people with social media skills. Since 2010, the number of jobs listed on Mediabistro's job board in the categories of mobile, social media, Web development and social-app gaming increased 140 percent, she said.
In January, job listings in those categories were up 51 percent over from the previous January.
To deliver social media training in a more effective way, Ms. Scheidel said that Mediabistro last year introduced a new approach. Instead of offering mostly small workshops with 15 to 20 students, they began offering what she described as an online social media conference.
As part of the course, industry leaders, who often appear at major digital conferences, deliver their presentations online during a webcast. At the same time, she says they still offer students small online workshops and one-on-one guidance with instructors who give them advice for whatever specific social media project they are doing.
''We wanted to give them the experience of being at a conference but maintain that small group setting, where you can get feedback and actually learn,'' she said. ''We also know that they can benefit from helping each other. They can share, connect and give feedback in small group workshops.''
The online conference approach also gives the students an opportunity to establish social media connections with one another, giving them an instant social network of peers interested in the same topic.
On a recent Thursday afternoon, Ms. Scheidel opened the first session of an eight-week online Social Media Marketing Boot Camp by welcoming about 250 students linking in from their computers from around the country for the live seminar.
While some of the participants were in between jobs, most of the students worked for major corporate brands, universities and government agencies, including MTV, NBC Universal, M.I.T., Bobbi Brown and the World Health Organization.
At the first session, Ms. Scheidel introduced Michael Brito, senior vice president for social business planning at Edelman Digital, who was followed by Dave Kerpen, chief executive officer of Likeable, a marketing firm. The title of his talk was ''How to Establish a Brand Personality Through Social Media.''
As both speakers delivered their presentations into a Web camera, zipping through their PowerPoint slides visible in one of the modules on the computer screens, Ms. Scheidel guided a lively interactive chat in another module, allowing the students to ask questions of the speakers and each other.
When one of the speakers brought up Pinterest, one of the students typed into the discussion forum, ''What is Pinterest?''
In seconds, another student typed into the chat box: ''It's a social bulletin board -- image based.''
Then, Ms. Scheidel typed in the link, pinterest.com. Another student added: ''It is a new photo share. You have to be invited, which I think is not very friendly.''
Yet another student, suggested he ''check out their Web site'' but warned it ''can be addicting.''
At the end of the first session, Mr. Kerpen from Likeable invited the students to find him on Twitter and ask any questions that they might have after the class.
He also announced that he would give copies of his book to students who said hello to him on Twitter immediately after the class. He emphasized, ''There is no timeline tweeting me questions.''
''The timeline is the rest of our lives,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM ME TO YOU: An ability to post on Facebook is expected. And there are courses for that. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
 ATTENTION, CLASS: Carmen Scheidel of Mediabistro conducting an online class, part of the social media marketing boot camp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (73%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



8 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: More Courses Get You Ready to Face the World

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
DONNA LAMBERT, who works for I.B.M. in Washington, was recently part of a team that helped set up financial management software for the company in Beijing. To do that she had to communicate not only with employees in China, but also with information technology personnel in Belarus, Britain and Australia.
That experience is one of many that have validated her decision to pursue an internationally focused M.B.A. Ms. Lambert, a management consultant, is obtaining one through a new program offered jointly by Brown University and IE Business School in Madrid.
''A lot of businesses are expanding globally,'' she said, ''and you have to learn to interact with people in different locations.'' 
The program, which is part time, is ''aimed at people who operate on a world scale one way or another,'' said Matthew Gutmann, vice president for international affairs at Brown.
More continuing education departments, like Brown's, have recognized that if they are to meet students' demands for global knowledge, they must provide instruction in culture, customs, laws, marketing and more, in addition to the standard foreign language classes.
Gustavo Demoner, an adjunct professor who teaches a course called Global Business Skills through U.C.L.A. Extension, said interest had been strong as businesses recognized that more of their revenue would come from foreign countries.
Mr. Demoner's students have included people from Hollywood studios, NASA, construction companies and small family businesses -- all of them thrust into the global economy in one way or another.
In his global skills course, Mr. Demoner discusses negotiation strategies, business etiquette and even body language in countries around the world.
In Latin America, for example, do not be alarmed by effusive hugging and kissing during a business deal, he said. And in places like Brazil and Argentina, tread very carefully when discussing soccer or barbecue because opinions are strong on both topics.
In Japan, do go out and socialize with your business partners; otherwise, they may keep a distance during negotiations, Mr. Demoner said. If you go out to happy hour with the Japanese, he said, you are likely to gather valuable information. But don't drink too much sake, or they may get too much information out of you, he added.
For anyone doing business in Taiwan, he said, ''all the high rollers belong to Rotary International; if you want to do business in Taiwan, you should definitely join Rotary.''
Mr. Demoner also teaches a course called Doing Business in Latin America. U.C.L.A. is among the universities offering business classes tied to certain regions, especially those that include the fast-growing BRIC countries, Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Demand for these classes has grown because the United States is in many ways an aging market, and much new business growth is abroad, said Van Anderson, program director for U.C.L.A. Extension.
Sometimes people must learn how to do business in a country they have not even visited, he said. It may be necessary to understand laws on patents, intellectual property and incorporation that are quite different from those in the United States.
Hiring presents another set of issues. Many companies must go outside the United States to find talent, especially in science and technology, Mr. Anderson said. Whether these employees work from their home countries or in the United States, requirements governing their employment and compensation can be complex. And management practices may differ depending on an employee's country of origin.
Understanding customers is another topic of great interest. Take marketing: In Latin American, unlike in the United States, a huge portion of the population watches soap operas, and it may be ''a lot more effective to use merchandising on television on a specific soap opera rather than going through regular marketing and communication channels,'' Mr. Demoner said. And using social networks like Facebook and LinkedIn to attract customers can work differently, too.
Courses with a global focus respond to demand -- and find teachers -- based on the industries and groups in the area. In San Diego, a biotech hub, the University of California offers a course called Clinical Trials Administration that has a strong international focus.
''Many of the clinical trials that used to be done in America have moved over to Europe,'' especially Eastern Europe, and to South American countries like Brazil and Peru, said Donna Stern, manager of clinical trials education at the university. That requires knowing specific international rules, rather than just those of the Food and Drug Administration.
New York University has long drawn on its proximity to the United Nations and nongovernmental organizations as it plans courses. It has offered a global affairs certificate since 1989 and began a certificate program in global philanthropy in 2010. This summer the university will offer a one-week intensive course called Creating a Nonprofit in a Global Landscape.
Global affairs topics have shifted since the early 1990s, when the world was absorbing the fall of the Soviet Union, said Vera Jelinek, divisional dean of the Center for Global Affairs at N.Y.U.'s School of Continuing and Professional Studies. Current areas of emphasis include ethnic and cross-border conflicts, human rights issues, climate change and food and energy resources, she said.
''You can't just go into a corporation and start investing without understanding the geopolitical issues'' affecting various countries, Dr. Jelinek said, adding, ''We don't sacrifice theory, but the emphasis is on the practical applications.''
One exercise in the university's Summer Institute in Global Affairs involves a daylong crisis simulation, in which students must represent delegations of various countries involved in an urgent global conflict.
For Brown's collaboration with IE, the M.B.A. program brochure points to ''sources of disruptive change that will occupy the management agenda for years to come,'' including climate change, migration flows, epidemics and transnational terrorism.
The program, which lasts 15 months, is arranged so that weeks featuring face-to-face classes -- at both Brown in Providence, R.I., and at IE in Madrid -- alternate with online sessions so participants can continue working.
Ms. Lambert, who received a degree in mechanical engineering from Brown in 1998, has a few months remaining to complete the M.B.A. program. She said the liberal arts focus of the program had encouraged her to look at new ways of solving problems.
You might not think that a class session about an orchestra would have much practical application for Ms. Lambert. But the session, part of a course on politics and culture, was about the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra, a group of Israeli, Palestinian and other Middle Eastern musicians who play together despite their leaders' political differences.
Ms. Lambert said one lesson from the class was that to operate outside the United States, ''you have to understand the culture, and you have to understand the history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: P'S AND Q'S: Gustavo Demoner teaches through the U.C.L.A. Extension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); SOCCER (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (70%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (66%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); BELARUS (90%); INDIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



9 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Land Spreading Out, but Not So Far and Wide

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
MORE than a century ago, many universities created extension departments expressly to help farmers improve their crops. Over the years, these departments have broadened, with farming still taught but sometimes overshadowed by classes covering every corner of the sciences and humanities.
Now more continuing education classes are returning to their agricultural origins, as people living in cities, towns and suburbs express interest in small-scale farming. 
''We've offered classes on how to grow stuff since the beginning of time,'' said Dennis Lukaszewski, urban agriculture program coordinator for Milwaukee County University of Wisconsin-Extension.
But in just the last few years, more beginning farmers with small plots of land have stepped into the mix. Just a few years ago, the Milwaukee campus began offering a beginning farming class in response to demand. That requires a different kind of lesson plan than one for a commercial farmer with hundreds of acres, or a family farmer who has been steeped in agricultural knowledge since birth.
Students in urban agriculture classes can range from seasoned gardeners looking to expand, to people seeking a wholesale career change to farming, Mr. Lukaszewski said. He gives better odds to those who hope to supplement their income while holding onto their day jobs.
As an income boost, small-scale gardening on at least an acre of land can work, he said. If you put in 20 hours a week, it's possible to make $7,000 to $8,000 a year in the Milwaukee area, he said, with the added benefit of free food.
Trying to make it full time with a smaller plot is a harder proposition, he said. ''Unless you've got equipment and reasonable acres and good markets, it's going to be rough,'' he said. Many people ''just don't realize the intensity and the amount of work,'' he said.
In urban agriculture classes, students learn techniques to maximize their time and space, for example how to rotate crops through the seasons. With preference running high for organic produce, the university's Organic Learning Center offers classes that cover proper methods of planting, fertilizing, composting and pest control.
Students of urban agriculture can learn fundamentals of entrepreneurship and marketing, including the ins and outs of farmers markets, the sales vehicle of choice for many small-scale operators.
Robert A. Kluson, an extension agent at the University of Florida in Sarasota, began teaching small-scale agriculture classes several years ago partly because the farmers markets in his area do not have enough vendors.
His classes in ''market gardening'' teach commercial production ''on a scale larger than a home garden, yet small enough that many of the principles of gardening can be applied,'' and they focus on local markets, according to the course description.
Mr. Kluson teaches a course for beginning farmers that is partly financed by the Agriculture Department. And he helped set up a program called Annie's Project for women who want to be ''agri-preneurs.''
Heightened interest in the local food movement, which encourages small-scale operators to offer fresh produce while supporting the local economy, has drawn students to these and other classes.
Mr. Kluson has taught classes to large-scale farmers; his market gardening classes are much different. You will not need a giant John Deere tractor to do your work, for one thing. For the small-scale farmer, he favors a walk-behind tractor with attachments.
He also helps his students confront zoning issues that are peculiar to city and suburban areas. ''I want to make sure everyone knows what the regulations are so they don't get fined'' and perhaps work with officials to allow more farming in these areas, he said.
Mr. Kluson started a network of small farmers because he found that many of them fell prey to isolation. It works because ''in small ag, everyone's very generous with their information and their time.'' Among larger farmers, ''Everyone tends to think of their neighbor as their competitor,'' he said.
The hope of finding a community of farmers is one reason Aluna Michelle decided to attend the seven-monthlong Growing Agripreneurs Program at Oregon State University in southwest Oregon.
Sponsored through a grant from the Oregon Department of Agriculture, the new program is for people who want to break into farming but have other careers, said Shaina Bronstein, facilitator for Oregon State's small-farms program.
Ms. Michelle, 35, lives in Medford, Ore., and also runs an organic food gardening business. She has a bachelor's degree in biology and a master's in environmental science. Although she has previous farming experience, she took the Oregon program because ''I wanted hands-on practical experience in farming in this particular location; farming here is new to me.'' And she wanted to connect with other farmers in the area, known as the Rogue Valley.
Ms. Michelle farms three and a half acres in Medford along with a business partner. Vegetables in the ground include turnips, napa cabbage, arugula, purple mustard, parsley, brussel sprouts, cabbage, broccoli, Swiss chard, kale, peas, radishes, carrots and potatoes.
The Oregon State program, she said, ''helped build the support and camaraderie that is so crucial to both our individual and shared success as farmers'' in the area, she said, adding, ''The connections that I made during the program have already grown in ways that support my farming and business ventures.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FRUITFUL: Aluna Michelle at her Oregon farm, HappyDirt Veggie Patch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM CRAVEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); GARDENING (87%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (85%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); CITIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); ORGANIC FOODS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



10 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: Coming Home From War to Hit the Books

BYLINE: By DAVID WALLIS

 BODY:
FALLING asleep in a crowded lecture hall was never a problem for Adam Connell. Just the opposite.
As a freshman at the University of Iowa in fall 2010, he uneasily eyed his classmates. ''I had feelings of bad anxiety,'' recalled Mr. Connell, 25, a Navy veteran. ''When you pull into ports, because terrorism is so high, you are always supervigilant at all times. In these 300-person lecture halls, you are just surrounded by people you don't know.''
Fortunately, he found a port in the storm. Mr. Connell enlisted in ''Life After War: Post-Deployment Issues,'' a three-credit course open only to veterans. The class helps veterans examine their military experiences while honing study skills, like managing test anxiety. ''People know where you are coming from,'' said Mr. Connell, who developed a quick camaraderie with his seven other classmates. ''They actually speak your language. It felt really cool.'' 
The war in Iraq is over, and approximately 22,000 troops are scheduled to return home from Afghanistan by the fall. Leon Panetta, the defense secretary, is calling for a ''smaller, leaner'' military, so colleges and universities are welcoming -- or in some cases ignoring -- an invasion of students taking advantage of the modern heir to the G.I. Bill. Despite the influx of former soldiers on campus, a veterans-only class that awards credit is the exception, not the rule.
Asked whether the 6,700 colleges and universities approved as eligible to educate veterans on the G.I. Bill were doing enough to support former troops, Rodrigo Garcia, national chairman of the Student Veterans of America, gave them ''an overall C+.''
''There are some great colleges and universities that deserve an A+,'' said Mr. Garcia, a former Marine. ''But there are some colleges and universities that perform varying unscrupulous practices, and they deserve an F.'' An area needing immediate improvement, according to Mr. Garcia, is career counseling. As of January, 9.1 percent of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans were unemployed, higher than the national rate of 8.3 percent.
Clearly, some schools deserve high marks for looking out for student-veterans. Columbia University, which banned the Reserve Officers' Training Corps in 1969 and allowed it back only in 2011, now ships out admissions staff members to military bases to recruit students.
And what a difference a war makes at the University of California, Berkeley. Rocked by violent antiwar protests during the Vietnam era, the school currently promotes its ''military friendly'' designation from G.I. Jobs magazine on its Web site for veterans.
Still, Gene van den Bosch, who founded the Arizona Veterans' Education Foundation, frets that some schools pay student-veterans little more than lip service. ''Perhaps some colleges are trying to maximize a public relations benefit and portray themselves as being military- or veteran-friendly,'' Mr. van den Bosch said. ''And yet when you investigate and say, 'Define that,' it turns out it may be in many cases, 'We have somebody who's going to help them process their G.I. Bill checks.' ''
There are plenty of checks to cash. According to the United States Department of Veteran Affairs, the number of veterans receiving benefits soared 16-fold -- to 555,329 -- within three years of enactment of the so-called post-9/11 G.I. Bill of 2008, which greatly expanded educational and other benefits. Under the latest iteration of the G.I. Bill, signed by President Obama in December 2010 and known as ''G.I. Bill 2.0,'' many enroll in online schools or vocational programs, but a growing number of student-veterans attend traditional colleges and universities.
Among the latter is a former Navy fighter pilot, Jeffery Hensley. As a reservist, he volunteered to serve with an Army civil affairs unit in Iraq in 2006. He had a job as a pilot at United Airlines waiting for him upon his return. But a few months after coming home to Frisco, Tex., in April 2007, he and his wife separated. ''I wound up becoming the full-time caregiver for my kids,'' Mr. Hensley said. The here-today, gone-tomorrow life of a pilot was ''a real tough way to raise kids,'' he said.
Having seen his children flourish in a program providing therapy through horseback riding, Mr. Hensley decided to change careers. He left United and enrolled in the University of North Texas to pursue a master's degree in clinical mental health. He is currently an intern with the Horses for Heroes therapeutic riding program for veterans in Keller, Tex.
Without the new G.I. Bill riding to his rescue, ''I would have had to stay at United -- and I was low down on the seniority list and close to being furloughed,'' Mr. Hensley said, adding, ''There was no way that I could have maintained a schedule that would have allowed me to go to school.''
Milton Greenberg, author of ''The G.I. Bill: The Law That Changed America,'' doubts that the new G.I. Bill will have the social impact of the original Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, which soon became known as the G.I. Bill of Rights and enabled millions of veterans to go to college and achieve upward mobility. But he considers the current benefits ''pretty damn generous.''
The first G.I. Bill allowed record numbers of veterans to go to college and offered recipients up to 52 weeks of unemployment compensation and guaranteed home or business loans. Student-veterans received a monthly subsistence allowance. ''With the Korean War, they began reducing the benefits,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''In Vietnam, they reduced it even more.'' In 1984, the ''Montgomery G.I. Bill,'' named after former Representative Gillespie V. Montgomery of Mississippi, increased benefits. Student-veterans who had paid a $1,200 enrollment fee could receive up to $300 a month for tuition, fees and living expenses for 36 months (four academic years), an amount subsequently increased several times.
''Before long -- you know what happened to tuitions -- it was practically useless,'' Mr. Greenberg said.
Those who served in the military for at least 90 days from Sept. 11, 2001, onward now qualify for an escalating level of benefits. Veterans with three years or more of service receive 100 percent of in-state tuition and fees at a public school for 36 months, or typically up to $17,500 an academic year if enrolled at private schools. Recipients also receive a substantial housing stipend, adjusted for local conditions. In expensive Midtown Manhattan, for example, the monthly housing allowance is $2,835.
The University of Iowa understands the equation of V.A. = $$. The university's Veterans Task Force Report, published in 2009, refers to veterans as an ''excellent revenue source.'' But the fact that the university evaluated its readiness to serve veterans sets it apart from many other schools. The report still found that the graduation rate for student-veterans at the University of Iowa was 15 percent lower than for other civilian students.
Reliable data about graduation rates is notoriously difficult to find, although Veterans Affairs last fall started to collect graduation figures for veterans on the G.I. Bill and plans to eventually report its findings. (By comparison, there is a wealth of information available about student-athletes.)
A recent study by Operation College Promise and the Pat Tillman Foundation suggests student-veterans thrive in supportive schools. It analyzed the academic progress of 200 veterans attending colleges with ''robust'' services, like mentoring programs. Participants maintained a 3.04 grade point average and 94 percent stayed in school from fall 2010 to spring 2011, surpassing national rates. The study did not investigate whether veterans prosper in schools without robust services.
Col. David W. Sutherland, special assistant to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff with a principal focus on warrior and family programs, credits colleges and universities for increasingly creating nurturing communities for veterans.
''When I say community, don't just think geographic,'' Colonel Sutherland said. ''The community of colleges. The community of employers. The community of health care providers. The bonds that exist on the battlefield are unlike any bonds you can imagine. You come home, and those are ripped apart, so you look for meaningful connections.''
Asked to play dean for a day, Colonel Sutherland, who commanded a brigade in Iraq, effortlessly barked a few orders:
''First, establish a Veteran's Resource Center that focuses on the needs of the veteran.''
''No. 2: Establish a student-veterans' association or organization, where the veterans have a place to congregate.'' Colonel Sutherland said the University of Arizona had a ''robust program'' aimed at minimizing its dropout problem. ''The police come in and bring pizzas on Fridays,'' he said. ''The Fire Department comes in and puts sodas in the fridge. They have graduate students tutoring the undergraduates.''
''No. 3 is changing the culture: faculty development programs.'' A veteran requires different attention from an 18-year-old just out of high school, Colonel Sutherland said, adding, ''I have different experiences, and he's texting, chewing gum, has his pants around his ankles and giggles every time the door slams -- and I may jump.''
Some student-veterans and their advocates argue that the military can do more to prepare soldier-scholars to be all they can be. Six months before demobilization, most service members attend the Transition Assistance Program, three days of workshops focusing mainly on getting a job and to a lesser extent on earning a degree.
Helen Shor, 25, a Marine Corps translator of Arabic from 2004-09 who is now studying for both a bachelor of arts and a master's degree at Columbia University, judges the transition program to be a missed opportunity. She faults instructors for leaving her with ''more questions than answers'' about her educational opportunities. ''They didn't explain the new G.I. Bill,'' Ms. Shor said. ''They couldn't tell us which schools would accept it, how much we would get paid for, whether or not our living expenses would be paid.''
Sean O'Doherty, who served in the Army from 2006-10, wished that the program prepared him for collegiate culture. ''They should tell you a little more about college,'' said Mr. O'Doherty, a freshman at the Community College of Baltimore County. For four years, he said, ''I was told what to do, I was told where to go, and when I got out here it was kind of like 'O.K., you are on your own.' ''
Colonel Sutherland defends the Transition Assistance Program, describing its mission as defining the postmilitary career path. ''TAP is not there to hold your hand,'' he said. He acknowledged, however, that it is being ''beefed up.''
Though disappointed by the Transition Assistance Program, Mr. Connell, the student-veteran at the University of Iowa who battled anxiety as a freshman, is a satisfied sophomore. He maintains a 4.0 grade point average and has kept up his friendships from the ''Life After War'' course. To explain his academic success, he borrows a phrase from his time on an aircraft carrier: ''Failure is not an option.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COLLEGE CREDIT: Helen Shor, a former Marine Corps translator of Arabic, is now studying at Columbia University. Col. David W. Sutherland credits colleges and universities with creating nurturing communities for veterans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGATON STROM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THERAPY: After Iraq, a veteran trains to help veterans at a Texas ranch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); NAVIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); TERRORISM (56%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



11 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Adviser to Businesses Laments Changes To Bankruptcy Law

BYLINE: By IAN MOUNT

 BODY:
For the past 23 years, Chuck Benjamin has been working as a turnaround consultant, primarily for troubled private companies with annual revenues of $25 million to $250 million. During that time, his company -- Benjamin Capital Advisors of Rye Brook, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fla. -- has handled some 70 cases. ''My endgame is to save companies,'' said Mr. Benjamin, 71, ''hopefully for their owners.''
That has become much more difficult in recent years, he says, as changes in bankruptcy law have given unsecured creditors more power and made bankruptcy more expensive. These legal changes and increased costs have in turn pushed troubled companies to liquidate their assets instead of reorganizing, Mr. Benjamin said, which ends up eliminating the original owners -- and many jobs -- in the process. The following is a condensed version of a recent conversation.
Q.You say the bankruptcy process is broken. How so? 
A. When bankruptcy evolved, it was to protect debtors, the owners. The whole concept was forgiving debts or restructuring so the business would survive in the hands of the owners. But the rules have changed over the years. Today, if they have to go into Chapter 11, the odds of the owners keeping the business are much lower. So there's no incentive for the owners to enter Chapter 11 and reorganize. Why save a company for somebody else?
Q.What changed?
A. First, the Supreme Court's 1999 LaSalle decision basically meant that any company that entered bankruptcy was on the market and could be bought either whole or piecemeal. And then in 2005, Congress passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, and that changed the face of Chapter 11 for privately held businesses. No. 1, B.A.P.C.P.A. changed the landlord's position. It limits the time to just seven months for debtors to decide whether to accept or reject the lease in bankruptcy. It used to be you could get extended almost forever the time you could accept or reject a lease. Now they have seven months. That's not a long time to decide which locations to close while you're in trouble and you're trying to work through all kinds of other issues.
The second change is exclusivity, that is, the debtor's exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization. It used to be you had all kinds of extensions. Sometimes bankruptcies used to take two, three, four, five years. I had one that was in Chapter 11 for seven years. But it survived. Now you have 18 months where the owner has the exclusive right to file plans for reorganization. Unsecured creditors know that after 18 months they can file a plan excluding the debtor. After you're in Chapter 11 for eight or 10 months, creditors say, ''I'm just going to hang on. I'll file my own plan and take over the company. Or after 18 months we'll just liquidate it.''
Q.It's hard to see anything positive about a bankruptcy that takes seven years.
A. Sometimes staying in bankruptcy a longer time was better, because it gave a debtor time to catch its breath.
Q.Who wins from this change?
A. The LaSalle decision and B.A.P.C.P.A. have given unsecured creditors a huge advantage, and the result is the cost of bankruptcy has gotten so high -- because of professional and other costs -- that the ability to continue the company under current ownership has reached almost zero. I understand the plight of unsecured creditors, but everyone who sells on unsecured account understands the risk. Every businessman understands this when he sells and makes a credit decision.
Q.Really? Small-business owners offer credit like this routinely. You don't think they expect to get paid?
A. You know that old saying, ''Let the buyer beware''? I think it's every businessman's responsibility to know to whom he sells and offers credit. If I sell to you and you begin to pay very slowly -- which often happens before a bankruptcy -- I should stop selling to you on credit. But if I continue to sell to you to make a buck, it's not your fault, it's mine.
Q.So what happens instead of reorganization these days?
A. Companies are liquidated. Back in 1983, the Lionel case allowed companies the freedom to sell off assets as opposed to filing a plan of reorganization. It expanded what could be sold in a ''363 sale.'' The 363 component was originally designed to allow companies to sell off spoilable product, like fruit. If you were in the grocery business and you filed bankruptcy, it allowed you to sell off assets. The Lionel case expanded that so you could sell major assets, virtually including the whole company. That's a quick way to avoid a plan of reorganization.
Q.How does a 363 sale work?
A. The 363 sale requires nothing more than saying, ''I'm going to sell you my equipment,'' and I publish that, and for 30 or 40 days people have a right to object to it and the judge can decide, O.K., sell it, or if there's a higher or better bid, it goes to the highest or best bidder. That happened in the Brunschwig & Fils bankruptcy where I was the chief restructuring officer. I sold the company's assets for $10 million, very successful, but the original owners lost control and 116 employees lost their jobs. In the old days we would have been able to reorganize the company.
Q.How do these changes affect a troubled company's ability to get financing during reorganization?
A. All of these changes say to the world that the chance of a company surviving bankruptcy is much lower. And if it's much lower, the banks aren't going to give debtor-in-possession financing -- and rightfully so. The D.I.P. financer gets a priority lien. Last in, first out. But the company has to survive to have the money to pay that super-priority lien.
Q.Does this change how troubled companies act?
A. Debtors are delaying seeking help longer and longer and longer. They're very frustrated. They're walking in molasses. They figure if they wait another week the economy is going to turn.
Q.What should business owners do instead of filing for Chapter 11?
A. People need to seek help quicker, change their business plan quicker, and avoid Chapter 11. It's just an absolute last resort. It's virtually nonsurvivable. One of the things we do as consultants is take two weak companies that are facing annihilation and we merge them and we get one survivable company -- without a bankruptcy. We also try to make out-of-court settlements with creditors, as opposed to Chapter 11 proceedings. In Chapter 11, the debtor pays for attorneys, accountants and consultants of the creditors' committee. They even pay for the investment bankers. The owner is paying the other side to oppose him. It's tilted to the unsecured creditor side.
Q.But doesn't this law fix some biases toward debtors that allowed them to drag out the process, hurting their creditors as they did so?
A. The law probably does fix some problems, but you have to look at the nuances. There are some cases with the tighter rules where the creditors get a little more but the company fails. The other option is the bankruptcy lingers and the creditors get a little less but the company survives, and that way the creditors continue to have a customer.
Q.You're a small-business owner yourself. How is your business doing?
A. Business right now is kind of quiet. I think this is the calm before the storm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chuck Benjamin, of Benjamin Capital Advisors, helps distressed companies. He says the bankruptcy process favors creditors over business owners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); SUPREME COURTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



12 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: A Civil Right to Unionize

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. KAHLENBERG and MOSHE Z. MARVIT. 
Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, and Moshe Z. Marvit, a labor and job discrimination lawyer, are the authors of ''Why Labor Organizing Should Be a Civil Right: Rebuilding a Middle-Class Democracy by Enhancing Worker Voice.''

 BODY:
FROM the 1940s to the 1970s, organized labor helped build a middle-class democracy in the United States. The postwar period was as successful as it was because of unions, which helped enact progressive social legislation from the Civil Rights Act to Medicare. Since then, union representation of American workers has fallen, in tandem with the percentage of income going to the middle class. Broadly shared prosperity has been replaced by winner-take-all plutocracy.
Corporations will tell you that the American labor movement has declined so significantly -- to around 7 percent of the private-sector work force today, from 35 percent of the private sector in the mid-1950s -- because unions are obsolete in a global economy, where American workers have to compete against low-wage nonunion workers in other countries. But many vibrant industrial democracies, including Germany, have strong unions despite facing the same pressures from globalization. 
Other skeptics suggest that because laws now exist providing for worker safety and overtime pay, American employees no longer feel the need to join unions. But polling has shown that a majority of nonunion workers would like to join a union if they could.
In fact, the greatest impediment to unions is weak and anachronistic labor laws. It's time to add the right to organize a labor union, without employer discrimination, to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, because that right is as fundamental as freedom from discrimination in employment and education. This would enshrine what the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. observed in 1961 at an A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention: ''The two most dynamic and cohesive liberal forces in the country are the labor movement and the Negro freedom movement. Together, we can be architects of democracy.''
The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognizes that ''everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.'' The First Amendment has been read to protect freedom of association, and the 1935 National Labor Relations Act recognized the ''right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations,'' but in reality, the opportunity to organize is a right without a remedy.
Firing someone for trying to organize a union is technically illegal under the 1935 act, but there are powerful incentives for corporations to violate this right, in part because the penalties -- mitigated back pay after extended hearings -- are so weak.
It is noteworthy that American workers in the airline and railway industries, which are governed not by the 1935 law but by a stronger statute, the Railway Labor Act, have much higher rates of unionization.
Past efforts to strengthen labor laws over four decades have gotten bogged down: Congress cannot pass reforms until labor's political clout increases, but that won't happen without labor law reform.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, has much stronger penalties and procedures than labor laws. Under our proposal, complaints about wrongful terminations for union organizing could still go through the National Labor Relations Board, which has expertise in this field. But the board would employ the procedures currently used by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which provide that after 180 days, a plaintiff can move his or her case from the administrative agency to federal court. There, plaintiffs alleging that they were unfairly dismissed for trying to organize could sue for compensatory and punitive damages and lawyers' fees, have the opportunity to engage in pretrial legal discovery and have access to a jury -- none of which are available under current law.
Our proposal would make disciplining or firing an employee ''on the basis of seeking union membership'' illegal just as it now is on the basis of race, color, sex, religion and national origin. It would expand the fundamental right of association encapsulated in the First Amendment and apply it to the private workplace just as the rights of equality articulated in the 14th Amendment have been so applied.
The labor and civil rights movements have shared values (advancing human dignity), shared interests (people of color are disproportionately working-class), shared historic enemies (the Jim Crow South was also a bastion of right-to-work laws) and shared tactics (sit-ins, strikes and other forms of nonviolent protest). King, it should be remembered, was gunned down in Memphis in 1968, where he was supporting striking black sanitation workers who marched carrying posters with the message ''I Am a Man.'' Conceiving of labor organizing as a civil right, moreover, would recast the complexity of labor law reform in clear moral terms.
Some might argue that the Civil Rights Act should be limited to discrimination based on immutable characteristics like race or national origin, not acts of volition. But the act already protects against religious discrimination. Some local civil rights statutes even cover marital status, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, source of income, or place of residence or business.
Should organizing at work for ''mutual aid and protection'' not also be covered?
While there are many factors that help explain why the nation has progressed on King's vision for civil rights while it has moved backward on his goal of economic equality, among the most important is the substantial difference between the strength of our laws on civil rights and labor. It is time to write protections for labor into the Civil Rights Act itself.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAXWELL HOLYOKE-HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (87%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (87%); OVERTIME (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BACK PAY (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



13 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Bank Reduces Ties With Iran, It Reports

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Artin Afkhami contributed reporting from Boston, and Annie Lowrey from Washington.

 BODY:
LONDON -- An Islamic bank in the United Arab Emirates said on Wednesday that it ''took pre-emptive action'' to end business relationships with some Iranian banks when it learned that the United States planned to apply economic sanctions against those banks.
The episode appeared to be related to efforts by the Obama administration to tighten economic restrictions in the dispute over Tehran's nuclear program. Western leaders suspect the program is designed to give Tehran the ability to produce nuclear weapons, but Iran insists that it is enriching uranium for civilian purposes. 
The decision by the Noor Islamic Bank, based in Dubai, was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, which said pressure from Washington had forced the bank to close off Iran's biggest single channel for repatriating foreign currency oil income.
Noor Islamic Bank, founded in 2007, is not a large institution; in 2010 it had assets of $4.6 billion, one five-hundredth as much as JPMorgan Chase, the largest American bank. But it is important to Iran as a conduit for receiving payments for its oil exports, handling a significant share of Iran's $100 billion a year in oil revenue from abroad, according to IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
In a statement issued in response to the article, Noor Islamic Bank said, ''As a U.A.E. bank, we comply with all U.A.E. Central Bank and U.A.E. government directives and international regulations, including those emanating from the U.N., regarding sanctions on Iran.''
''When we became aware, in December 2011, that unilateral U.S. sanctions were to be applied against a number of Iranian banks,'' the statement said, ''we took pre-emptive action to end our business relationships with Iranian banks licensed in the U.A.E.''
The statement did not refer specifically to American pressure.
A Treasury Department official said it was working ''closely and well'' with the government of the Emirates as it steps up efforts to isolate Iran financially. ''The U.A.E. has expressed its support for sanctions to pressure Iran to address the international community's concerns about its illicit nuclear activities,'' the official said.
In a sign that the sanctions may be biting, the Iranian authorities said Wednesday that Tehran would, unlike most oil producers, accept payment for oil in customers' currencies or in gold instead of the dollars that are usually demanded.
''In its trade transactions with other countries, Iran does not limit itself to the U.S. dollar, and the country can pay using its own currency,'' the central bank governor, Mahmoud Bahmani, was quoted by the state news agency IRNA as saying. ''If a country should so choose, it can pay in gold, and we would accept that without any reservation.''
Iranian officials have been taking a defiant line in public statements, insisting that Western sanctions will not be effective.
The Fars news agency quoted an Iranian deputy foreign minister as saying that the main customers for Iranian crude oil in Asia ''are doing their routine business activity with Iran despite the heavy pressures exerted on them by the U.S. and E.U. to block their trade ties with the Islamic Republic.''
Seyed Abbas Araqchi, the deputy foreign minister for legal and international affairs, said that 70 to 80 percent of Iranian crude oil exports went to Asia. ''Major customers have kept their ties with us and do not follow the U.S. unilateral sanctions,'' he was quoted as saying.
Earlier, Reuters quoted Khalid al-Ghaith, the United Arab Emirates' assistant foreign minister for economic affairs, as saying the action was limited to a single bank.
''They were just talking about Noor Islamic Bank,'' he said.
He added, ''We are still working with the U.S. government, and continue discussing to protect our bank sector and companies and continue this dialogue; this is what we are doing as a government.''
The Web site of Noor Islamic Bank says that its offerings are ''governed by a Shariah Board, comprising leading Islamic scholars with extensive experience and expertise in legal, financial and banking-related matters,'' and that it has offices in several gulf emirates and in Tunisia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLAMIC BANKING (91%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); IHS INC (67%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); IHS (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



14 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1133 words

PERSON: Anna Lou Dehavenon 

HEADLINE: Anna Lou Dehavenon, 85; Drew Attention to the Homeless

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Anna Lou Dehavenon, an urban anthropologist, was documenting the lives of women living in a Bronx homeless shelter in the 1980s when she had an epiphany.
She had just determined that the median age of women at the shelter was 26, and that the median number of children of the women was 2, when she suddenly remembered the day her own life was turned upside down -- when she, too, was 26 and the mother of two.
It was Oct. 29, 1953, the day her husband, William Kapell, one of his generation's most brilliant pianists, died in a plane crash at the age of 31. He was returning to the United States from a tour of Australia when the plane struck King's Mountain south of San Francisco, killing all 19 on board.
Mr. Kapell, who had spent a small fortune transporting his chosen pianos to concerts, left his widow little. And she, having dropped her own career as a promising pianist to raise a family, found herself with no income and no college degree. If she wasn't exactly homeless, she was the closest thing to it. 
At the Bronx shelter, Dr. Dehavenon saw how much she had in common with the women she was studying, and how her own experience had motivated her choice of career.
''I'm thinking, my God, that's one of the reasons I'm so concerned,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 2005. ''Freud would have had a wonderful time with it. Subconsciously, my own experience fed into it.''
With help, she rebuilt her life and went on to earn a Ph.D. in anthropology, becoming a respected authority on poverty, hunger and homelessness in New York City. She died at 85 on Tuesday at a nursing home in Greenport, on Long Island, her son David Kapell said.
Dr. Dehavenon's influence came from the strength of the statistics and empirical observations she collected as an urban anthropologist doing studies for private social welfare groups. Her reports were read closely by government agencies, judicial officials and the news media, and her research influenced a 1979 landmark ruling that affirmed a right to shelter in New York City.
She was as much an advocate as she was an observer. One organization she started was called the Action Research Project on Hunger.
''Are people starving?'' Dr. Dehavenon asked rhetorically in 1988. ''I don't really use that kind of language. We can't ever see hunger, because it's a subjective experience. But we can build a case inferring that people here are suffering from hunger, and that's what we've done.''
Starting in 1978, Dr. Dehavenon produced annual studies on hunger for the East Harlem Interfaith Welfare Committee, an alliance of seven religious, voluntary organizations she helped form. She had been raised a Presbyterian and embraced Buddhism.
Using social science research techniques, Dr. Dehavenon found that more and more Harlem residents went hungry each year, some of them relying on what they could steal, others sifting through garbage to feed their families.
She traced the causes to cuts in federal assistance and an eagerness by New York City officials to bump people from public assistance rolls. She titled her 1985 report ''The Tyranny of Indifference.''
Dr. Dehavenon focused increasingly on homelessness as the problem surged in the 1980s. Her analyses contributed to the litigation in a class-action suit brought by the Legal Aid Society on behalf of a group of homeless families. It led to the ruling, by a State Supreme Court justice, ordering New York City to provide shelter to all homeless families.
''In the society's court papers, she recounted her weekly observations of case after case of families who had been left without shelter,'' said Jane Bock, senior staff attorney for the society's Homeless Rights Project. Dr. Dehavenon's expert testimony about families living in filth led to contempt rulings against the city, Ms. Bock said.
When the Community Service Society presented Dr. Dehavenon with its highest award in 1990, it said, ''Her research has been instrumental in forcing critical changes in social policy in New York City.''
Rebecca Ann Lou Melson was born on Nov. 24, 1926, in Bellingham, Wash., and soon showed a gift for the piano. After two years at Reed College in Portland, Ore., she moved to Chicago to study at DePaul University with Sergei Tarnovsky, who had taught Vladimir Horowitz in Russia. She met Mr. Kapell when he performed in Chicago, and they married in 1948.
After Mr. Kapell's death, family friends helped her find an apartment. She met Gaston T. de Havenon, an art dealer, and married him in 1955. (She adopted a slightly different rendering of the surname.) They had two children, and with his two children from an earlier marriage and her two with Mr. Kapell, she acted as mother for six. She divorced Mr. de Havenon in 1974, having grown bored with being a homemaker, she told The Times.
At 40, she started taking classes at Columbia University's School of General Studies. One teacher, the anthropologist Marvin Harris, who was known for finding practical explanations for human behavior, had students videotape the behavior of a range of people, from garbage collectors to the Macy's Santa Claus.
Ms. Dehavenon continued to use videotape in her doctoral studies of hunger, recording the behavior of families, in some cases as they ran out of food. She spoke of being moved by an unemployed father in East Harlem who had borrowed $10 from his sister and spent three days comparing prices before buying a Thanksgiving turkey.
After receiving her doctorate in 1978, she taught on and off at both the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine throughout her career.
Besides her son David, she is survived by another son, Alexander; her daughters Rebecca Ellen Kapell Leigh and Sarah Alicia de Havenon Fowler; her stepson, Michael, and 10 grandchildren.
Dr. Dehavenon strove to keep Mr. Kapell's memory alive by helping to publish his diaries and issue new recordings of his music. In one instance, by a circuitous route, she unexpectedly received CD copies of some forgotten acetate-disc recordings of Mr. Kapell's last concerts, performed in Australia in 1953. A Melbourne department store salesman, who had since died, had recorded them from radio broadcasts.
The found music led to the release in 2008 of the two-disc album ''Kapell Rediscovered: The Australian Broadcasts,'' by Sony BMG Masterworks.
In a 2004 radio interview in Australia, Dr. Dehavenon said she still got goose flesh when she heard Mr. Kapell's music. There are times, she said, ''when music can speak but words can't speak.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Thursday about Anna Lou Dehavenon, an urban anthropologist, erroneously included a survivor. Andre de Havenon, a stepson, died in 2000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anna Lou Dehavenon, an urban anthropologist, in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dr. Dehavenon kept alive the music of her first husband, William Kapell, above in 1941. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); STARVATION (75%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RELIGION (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



15 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Hiring a Coach in Pursuit of an Advanced Degree

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

 BODY:
THE way back to school for many adults hoping to complete a bachelor's or master's degree is akin to being set loose in the wilderness without a compass. Adults have spent years juggling careers and life demands, and have ''no clearly articulated path to a degree,'' said Donald E. Fraser Jr., director of education and training at National Association for College Admission Counseling, whose members include independent consultants and school-based advisers.
According to the National Center for Education Statistics, the 25-and-over student population grew 43 percent from 2000-9 and will increase an additional 23 percent by 2019. Mr. Fraser says he and other professional academic advisers are ''paying close attention'' to this market.
Business for independent academic consultants has grown considerably as traditional students seek an edge in high-stakes undergraduate admissions. (Some 160,000 high school seniors used them in 2009, 100,000 more than in 2005, according to the Independent Educational Consultants Association.) 
Adults represent a small portion of that business, but as a sour economy makes even seasoned professionals consider further education, more working adults are seeking such advice on admissions and careers. For them, much is on the line -- jobs, finances, time, lifestyle sacrifices. ''If you're out in the work force and out of an academic mind-set for years,'' Mr. Fraser said, ''who are you going to turn to?''
For adults, a degree is a means rather than an end, says David Petersam, president of AdmissionsConsultants in Vienna, Va. Younger students, he says, typically go to college because they feel they must and often obtain first jobs that have nothing to do with their majors but allow them time to explore career direction.
Adults going back to school have no such luxury. Many are like Sami Balbaky, who earned a master's in biomedical engineering from the University of Southern California in 2010. His approach to the application process was one-shot and full-throttle. At 29, he saw little room for error: He identified his top schools, did the legwork for his applications, collected transcripts, prepared for the Graduate Record Examination and wrote a personal essay. But he ''could not click the submit button'' on his applications, he says.
Mr. Balbaky wanted his essay to be ''bulletproof and unassailable,'' so in 2008 he hired Write Track Admissions in Washington. He spent an entire summer working via computer from his home in San Francisco with an adviser, ''transforming my essay from a manifesto into a personal statement'' that helped win him admission to his top-choice school, he says.
Those who hire consultants can work with them for a few weeks or many months, and pay anywhere from several hundred dollars to thousands of dollars (not tax deductible as an education expense) depending on the services and time needed.
Pricing is by the hour or by the package. AdmissionsConsultants, for example, offers both options. Hourly rates range from $150 for applicants to medical school, to $250 for M.B.A. applicants. Fixed-fee packages are priced by the number of applications and the type of degree. A ''Gold Package'' of five applications for graduate programs, for example, costs $4,000.
For that investment, a client can expect an evaluation of prospective schools, guidance on admission strategies, help with an essay's theme and structure, interview preparation, G.R.E. advice and career information. With luck, a consultant becomes a sounding board who provides an insider's view on each school's admissions predilections and the marketplace forces that influence them. One wouldn't want to apply for a Harvard M.B.A. in finance, for example, at a time when university officials expect slack demand for the specialty.
Clients concede that it is expensive. But it was worth it to Ramsey Day, who bought a single-school graduate package from AdmissionsConsultants.
In 2011, Mr. Day decided to apply for a graduate degree in public administration while winding down a job as head of the United States Agency for International Development's Montenegro office.
At 36, out of school for 14 years, and living out of the country, Mr. Day said he ''had no idea what graduate schools were looking for.'' He worked with an adviser online or by phone from Montenegro, and completed an application to American University's School of International Service.
He figured he would replicate what he learned with four other applications completed on his own, including one to Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where he was accepted and started a master's of public administration last fall. Cost of the one-year program: $50,000. The cost of the consulting services -- $1,500 -- was ''pennies compared to what I will get from this degree,'' he said.
Whether to hire a private consultant depends not only on one's willingness or ability to pay, but on the type of program and school desired. Prospective students of schools with high admission rates, 25 to 30 percent, probably don't need them.
But Mr. Petersam and other advisers say they are beginning to serve a different adult clientele that, if not for the economic downturn, would not consider graduate school. They are needier and more confused, and seek guidance that is part career-counseling and part life-coaching.
''This person is coming to us and saying 'What do I do?' '' said Mr. Petersam, who has been advising adults since 1996.
Mark Sklarow, executive director of Independent Educational Consultants Association, says this customer is of concern to him and his group's 1,000 members.
''With adults, sometimes there is almost a desperation to move forward with school because they see that as the answer,'' he said. ''My fear is that adults go to school without a game plan, they spend time and money, but they're not furthering their careers.''
Consultants are adapting their services. At Write Track Admissions, a detailed questionnaire is administered upfront and is devised ''to get as personal as possible,'' said Hamada Zahawi, a co-founder of the company. ''Why have they made certain life decisions? What happened 10 or 15 years ago that impacted their goals? Do they have children to raise?''
Often the decision is not to go back to school. Such was the case with a client of Mr. Petersam's who had been running a construction business but was battered by the housing bust.
''He hated it and wanted to go back to school to do something else,'' he said. ''I said to him, 'You've got a lot invested here. Before you throw out the baby with the bath water, slow down. Do you hate everything?' ''
After consulting with Mr. Petersam, the client realized he liked sales and marketing, but didn't like the responsibility of running a business.
The result? Instead of retooling at school, he closed up shop and took a sales job with a larger company.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on March 1 about independent college counseling services erroneously included statistics about the benefits of independent counseling from a 2011 survey. They applied to undergraduate applicants -- not to students seeking master's degrees, which was the focus of the article. (The survey showed that 23 percent of admissions directors at private master's-granting universities and 20 percent from regional and state universities found the use of private counselors to be effective for undergraduate applicants.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GETTING ADVICE: David Petersam, left, president of Admissions Consultants, has been advising adults since 1996. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON JENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (70%); ENGINEERING (61%); SONG WRITING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



16 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Black Eye For Ticket Reseller

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
It was the kind of disturbance that could have happened anywhere alcohol flows free. But an outburst early Monday at an Oscars party in Connecticut has also cast a shadow over a fast-growing and controversial side of the entertainment business: the online market for scalped tickets.
Don Vaccaro, the chief executive of TicketNetwork, a national online marketplace for secondhand tickets to concerts and sporting events, was arrested Monday in Hartford and charged with hate crimes, police interference and other offenses. According to a police report, Mr. Vaccaro grabbed a woman inappropriately and then made racial slurs and threatened a security guard at an event attended by the Connecticut lieutenant governor, attorney general and other top state officials.
TicketNetwork, which is based in South Windsor, Conn., and says it has $111 million a year in revenue, suffered immediate consequences. On Wednesday, it said it would withdraw from a state program that would have given it up to $7.8 million in low-interest loans and grants to develop hundreds of jobs. Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, who had once praised Mr. Vaccaro as a ''serial entrepreneur,'' called his behavior ''disturbing.'' 
As news of the arrest spread this week, several elected officials in Connecticut distanced themselves from Mr. Vaccaro, saying that thousands in campaign contributions from him would be given to charity. And his arrest is another blow to scalpers -- who prefer to be called brokers -- as they try to cultivate an image of professionalism. It follows a report last week by the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection that detailed how some businesses deceived fans through fake Web sites.
Scalping, which by some estimates is a $4.5 billion business nationwide, remains a hot-button issue for consumers who increasingly find the secondary market the only source of tickets to desirable events.
''The secondary market is not just everyday folks trying to sell their tickets because they can't go to a show at the last minute,'' said Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, who has proposed legislation to curb scalpers' access to tickets. ''It's worth billions of dollars a year and is dominated by professional brokers, some of whom use every trick to snatch up hot tickets before the average guy and sell them at a profit. The result is that the average consumer is forced to pay a premium for a ticket they should have the ability to purchase at its face value.''
The five-page arrest report says that at the party, a benefit for a nonprofit AIDS group, Mr. Vaccaro called the police saying he had been assaulted by a security guard. The guard, according to his account in the report, had pulled Mr. Vaccaro outside after seeing him grabbing a woman ''who had a look of terror on her face.'' Mr. Vaccaro, 49, who the report says was visibly drunk, then threatened the guard with violence and used a racial epithet.
He is due in court in Hartford on Wednesday, and has said he will take a leave of absence and seek treatment for alcohol abuse.
But the arrest, and the consumer protection report, could complicate the company's political fortunes. TicketNetwork has lobbied aggressively for legislation that would benefit scalpers, like a bill to ban so-called paperless ticketing, a feature promoted by Ticketmaster that lets theater box offices check the names or credit card numbers of attendees rather than issuing a ticket that can be easily resold.
A TicketNetwork spokeswoman did not respond to attempts to reach Mr. Vaccaro.
Paperless ticketing remains a rarity in the concert business but has been used by Miley Cyrus and others. For Bruce Springsteen's new shows, it has reduced scalping by as much as 75 percent, Ticketmaster said, pointing to the difference in the number of tickets that have turned up on secondary markets for shows in New York versus other states. Paperless ticketing is allowed in New York only if the buyer has the option of other kinds of tickets that can be resold, a restriction that has effectively curbed paperless ticketing.
Connecticut's consumer protection report faulted primary sellers like Ticketmaster for not disclosing how many tickets are on sale at a given time, but it reserved most of its criticism for the secondary market. ''Our review uncovered a highly nefarious speculative ticket practice that combines speculative ticket sales with the practice of deceiving the consumer into thinking that they are dealing with the box office,'' the report said.
Some concert and ticketing industry executives applauded the report, and said that it did not bode well for those lobbying against the paperless ticketing option.
''The consumer protection letter to the general law committee is finally beginning to show the underbelly of abuses that go on in the secondary ticket market,'' said David Fay, chief executive of the Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts in Hartford, who has been a vocal opponent of the bills.
A bill to ban paperless ticketing last year was effectively killed after Mr. Vaccaro sued Mr. Fay for defamation over comments made during a legislative committee hearing. But a similar bill was raised last week in a different committee by Gary LeBeau, a state senator whose district includes TicketNetwork.
A spokesman for Senator LeBeau did not respond to a request for comment.
After Governor Malloy announced in July that TicketNetwork had been chosen for the state program, called First Five, there was some public objection that the government was rewarding the practice of scalping. There were also objections related to Mr. Vaccaro's character. At the time, he was being sued for sexual harassment by a former TicketNetwork employee. But the suit was withdrawn by the plaintiff the day after the governor's announcement.
In an interview on Wednesday, Catherine Smith, the Economic and Community Development commissioner, defended the vetting process behind TicketNetwork's approval for First Five, saying that the company had solid financials and was growing fast. But she also expressed regrets.
''I think the due diligence was reasonable and good on the business side in particular,'' she said. ''My lesson in retrospective is I wish we had done a little bit more due diligence around the individual associated with this.''
Paperless ticketing is allowed in New York only if a buyer has the option of other kinds of tickets that can be resold, a restriction that has effectively curbed paperless ticketing.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the arrest of Don Vaccaro, chief executive of TicketNetwork, an online reseller of entertainment tickets, misstated New York State's law on paperless tickets. The law says that ticket sellers who wish to sell paperless tickets must offer consumers an alternative in a form that is transferrable -- a requirement that has had the effect of curbing paperless tickets. It is not the case that paperless ticketing is banned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Vaccaro, chief executive of TicketNetwork, is due in court on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET AGENCIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CHARITIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); LEGISLATION (61%); EXECUTIVES (57%); SPORTS & RECREATION (56%); SPORTS (56%); AIDS & HIV (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (57%); BILL PASCRELL JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



17 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Tea And Tart Women

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- What happens when movie studios stop making the kind of movies you know how to make?
If you're the comedic screenwriter Robert Harling, and you've ruled out making a living as a Norma Desmond ''it's the pictures that got small'' drag queen, as he said the other day, you take your bag of writing tricks and go to television.
''Why not give it a whirl?'' Mr. Harling said, and so he is. His first TV series, an ABC dramedy called ''GCB'' that is loosely based on Kim Gatlin's novel, ''Good Christian Bitches,'' makes its debut on Sunday night.
From the late 1980s to the mid '90s Mr. Harling delivered a string of hit movies starring actresses of a certain age and dealing with female-focused themes like fading beauty. (Call them chick flicks if you must.) ''Steel Magnolias,'' centered on a group of eccentric Southern women, helped make Julia Roberts a star. ''Soapdish,'' with a scenery-chewing Sally Field, took audiences backstage at a soap opera. Mr. Harling was also brought in to fix comedies like ''Sister Act.'' 
His ''First Wives Club,'' starring Bette Midler, Goldie Hawn and Diane Keaton, took in over $261 million at the global box office (adjusting for inflation) in 1996.
Then Mr. Harling's run slowed. His first stab at directing flopped: ''The Evening Star,'' a 1996 sequel to ''Terms of Endearment,'' generated only about $18 million in today's dollars, according to Box Office Mojo. He took time off to travel, became a script doctor for films like ''Sweet Home Alabama'' and worked on some original ideas of his own. By the time he dived full bore into a new movie -- a big-screen, bigger-shoulder-pads adaptation of ''Dallas'' never completed -- Hollywood had changed around him.
The movie factories wanted franchises that could play on a global level, R-rated comedies aimed at young moviegoers, and animation. But as for films tailored for older women? With few exceptions (Nancy Meyers), not interested. ''I just kept being told what I wanted to do was too expensive, too expensive,'' Mr. Harling said of his torturous ''Dallas'' experience, which stretched over several years.
ABC, on the other hand, snapped up ''GCB,'' which stars Kristin Chenoweth as the rich ringleader of a nasty Texas clique. Her childhood frenemy moves home from California and claws start to pop. If the first episode is any guide, the series, produced by Darren Star (''Sex and the City''), will be way, way (way) over the top. Think ''Dallas'' meets ''The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.''
''Right from the beginning we thought this was a home-run idea for us,'' said Channing Dungey, senior vice president for drama development at ABC, a division of the Walt Disney Company.
ABC hopes the series will strike a chord among women 25 to 54 years old, the core audience for that network's ''Desperate Housewives,'' which will end in May. It's a risky endeavor. Although the chipper Ms. Chenoweth has recently kicked up dust on ''Glee'' and has a following from her work in Broadway musicals (''Wicked''), she has never anchored a successful series.
The network, worried that the show's full title could turn off conservative audiences, truncated it to the difficult-to-market ''GCB.'' (Mr. Harling said he rejected an effort to rename the series ''Good Christian Belles.'') Still, conservative groups have pounced.
''The B-word is toxic and is used to degrade, abuse, harass, bully and humiliate women,'' the Parents Television Council said when the show was announced last year. ''And the 'Christian' element only adds insult to injury.''
Ms. Chenoweth, who is overtly religious, said the naysayers are rushing to judge. ''Bobby Harling is a man who prays, and he doesn't make fun of his faith,'' she said. ''He has fun with it.'' As an example she rattled off one of her favorite lines from the series: ''Cleavage makes your cross hang straight.''
Ms. Dungey acknowledged sensitivity about the title in marketing material for the show but said she was not worried about the program's content. ''Treating religion and Christianity with respect is very important to everyone involved,'' she said.
It's not as if Mr. Harling, 60, has to work to pay the bills. ''Steel Magnolias,'' which he first wrote as a play in a blistering 10-day stretch after his sister's death from diabetes (the role Ms. Roberts played), has become a staple of American regional theater and is still routinely produced around the world, where it has been translated into more than 20 languages. Truth be told, part of him just wants to drink sweet tea on the porch of his 1830 estate, Oaklawn Plantation, near Natchitoches, La., his hometown.
''He's Southern, babe; that's what they do down there,'' said Shirley MacLaine, who starred in ''Steel Magnolias'' and ''The Evening Star'' and is a close friend. But she's happy he's back. ''His work is more emotionally sophisticated than it looks at first,'' she said. ''He's also artistically devilish -- extremely -- and that's a gift Hollywood needs desperately.''
Mr. Harling did not want to be a writer. He graduated from Tulane University with a law degree but then announced to his family that he planned to move to New York and become a tap dancer. That plan wasn't going all that well when his sister died and ''Steel Magnolias'' flowed from his fingertips. It became an Off Broadway smash, and suddenly Hollywood came calling, in particular older actresses who wanted in on the movie adaptation.
(He said he picked up the phone one day, before caller ID, and a voice said, ''This is Bette Davis, calling for Robert Harling.'' He thought it was a friend playing a joke. His response: ''Timmy, what do you want?'' It was Bette Davis.)
Mr. Harling has other projects in the works, including an ambitious pilot for NBC that is set on a Southern plantation in 1967. He describes it as ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' except with the family from ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' He is also moving forward with a musical version of ''Soapdish,'' which could arrive on Broadway next year.
Laurence Mark, a producer of movies like ''Julie & Julia'' and ''Dreamgirls,'' is working with Mr. Harling on adapting the movie into a musical. '' 'Soapdish' has characters that are way out there, and anything that's way out there you're allowed to sing about,'' Mr. Mark said. He added: ''One of the things I love about Bobby is the juxtaposition between his personality and his work. He's a refined gent, but in his writing quite mad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Harling(C1)
 From left, Brad Beyer, Jennifer Aspen, Kristin Chenoweth, Miriam Shor and Leslie Bibb in ''GCB,'' a series created by Robert Harling that begins Sunday night on ABC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL MATLOCK/ABC)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); TICKET SALES (74%); ANIMATION (73%); WOMEN (73%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: GCB (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



18 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Studying to Release Your Inner George Costanza

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
WHEN Brad Freeman left the Marines in 2006, he wondered what to do next. His work as a combat engineer had been fulfilling, but his skills were not necessarily the ones he needed in civilian life. So he finished a bachelor's degree in business at Ball State University in Indiana and, looking for a foothold in the sports world, founded a company, First Job in Sports, to help people find internships in the field.
Last year, he leapt full time into sports himself when he enrolled in the graduate sports business management program at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. By studying marketing, sports law and other topics with professionals in the sports business, Mr. Freeman hopes to land a job at the college level in facilities management (from practice gyms to stadiums). In doing so, he hopes to combine his love of sports with a desire to help people. 
''I do miss the military because I was doing something great for the country,'' said Mr. Freeman, 30. ''With everything that's going on in the world, people go to games to get away from everyday life. Sports keep people together.''
While others may not share Mr. Freeman's altruistic motivation, a growing number are taking a similar path. Lured by the glamour of sports and the possibility of becoming a real-life George Costanza, the character on ''Seinfeld'' who landed a front-office job with the New York Yankees, or prompted by a midcareer itch to put existing skills to work in a new field, students young and older are flocking to sports management programs.
More than 300 universities offer undergraduate and graduate degrees in sports business and management, according to the North American Society for Sport Management -- and little wonder, given that sports is a $425-billion-a-year business and growing. Sports, of course, is already a big business at many schools. And many universities, eager to develop new moneymaking ventures, see the combination of sports and business as an irresistible draw for students.
Undergraduate programs in sports management have been around for more than four decades, but there has been a marked increase lately in graduate programs with a specific focus on midcareer workers, taught by practitioners in the expanding sports sector.
As the number of teams and leagues has increased, along with the agencies, vendors and broadcasters who serve them, graduate sports business management programs have been established by Columbia University, Georgetown University, the University of Central Florida and the University of Oregon, among others.
Shannon Shae Spalten, in her last semester at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management at New York University, is typical of the students such programs are eager to attract. Before enrolling in the program, the 37-year-old sold commercial real estate. But her ability to network, close deals and run a business, it turns out, are all transferrable skills.
''What I know now that I didn't know at 19, beyond the classroom and learning, is that it's the connections you make with people,'' Ms. Spalten said. ''I felt getting a degree and having a real knowledge of the business would really help me with the business of sports.''
In addition to helping bring speakers and recruiters to campus, she has worked part time for the New York Giants in an initiative to create premium services for season-ticket holders. The job, which required long hours during the Giants' run to the Super Bowl, is part of a new group the team set up, underscoring a lesson many students learn at these programs: the business of sports evolves quickly, and teams, leagues and others are looking for people from nontraditional backgrounds with new ideas.
Students in the sports management program at Columbia, where they take classes in the business school and learn from top sports executives, have jobs in the National Hockey League and at ESPN, the United States Tennis Association and other well-known organizations, according to Lucas Rubin, the director of the program. Three-quarters of his 96 current students, he added, are working in the field while participating in the program.
Yet such programs are not cheap, and their growing number, combined with cutbacks by leagues and teams during the recession, has made landing a job more difficult. At the high end, Columbia's program runs $54,000 for tuition alone and takes, on average, two and a half years to complete. By contrast, the Manhattanville College program runs a little over half that -- $28,000 to $30,000 for tuition -- and can be completed in less time.
Now consider the starting salaries at many sports management jobs. Graduates may receive as little as $35,000 a year for a job that may require working long nights and weekends.
Still, program directors say, graduates fluent in a second language are in particular demand, as are those with strong sales skills or specific technological abilities. And because of the diversity of their experience, midcareer students, including a growing number of veterans, are generally more employable compared with their younger classmates, sports management professors say.
While precise figures are hard to come by, military veterans make a notable subset of incoming classes. The winding down of wars overseas has increased the ranks of veterans returning home looking to make a fresh start. Benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs have helped, too. The federal government pays 60 percent of Mr. Freeman's Manhattanville tuition as well as a stipend for his living expenses.
''I think part of it is the pervasiveness of sports and recognizing the opportunities,'' said Robin Ammon, who teaches the business of sports at the University of South Dakota and helps run the North American Society for Sport Management. ''They're a little older and if they've been in combat, they realize life's pretty short, so they want to get involved now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRANSFERRING SKILLS: Shannon Spalten used to work in commercial real estate, but is working toward a degree in sports management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); BASEBALL (71%); SPORTS MARKETING (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



19 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Tensions Raise Specter of Gas At $5 a Gallon

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Gasoline for $5 a gallon? The possibility is hardly far-fetched.
With no clear end to tensions with Iran and Syria and rising demand from countries like China, gas prices are already at record highs for the winter months -- averaging $4.32 in California and $3.73 a gallon nationally on Wednesday, according to AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report. As summer approaches, demand for gasoline rises, typically pushing prices up around 20 cents a gallon.
And gas prices could rise another 50 cents a gallon or more, analysts say, if the diplomatic and economic standoff over Iran's nuclear ambitions escalates into military conflict or there is some other major supply disruption.
''If we get some kind of explosion -- like an Israeli attack or some local Iranian revolutionary guard decides to take matters in his own hands and attacks a tanker -- than we'd see oil prices push up 20 to 25 percent higher and another 50 cents a gallon at the pump,'' said Michael C. Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research. 
For the typical driver who pumps 60 gallons a month of regular unleaded gasoline, a 50-cent increase in price means an extra expense of $30 a month.
The prospect of such a price increase underscores the political and economic risks that Western political leaders must contend with as they decide how to address the Iran situation. A sharp rise in the prices of oil and gas would crimp the nation's budding economic recovery. It would also cause big political problems at home for President Obama, who is already being attacked by Republican presidential candidates over gas prices and his overall energy policies, and for European nations struggling to deal with the Continent's debt crisis.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told a House committee on Wednesday that rising global oil prices were ''likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing consumers' purchasing power.'' He maintained the Fed's forecast that the nation's economy would grow 2.2 to 2.7 percent this year.
The Iran situation has already raised the price of crude oil as much as 20 percent, according to oil experts. On Wednesday, the price of the benchmark American crude settled at $107.07 a barrel. That is about four dollars higher than on the same day in 2008. Later that year, oil and gasoline prices surged to new records, including a record nominal high of $145.29 a barrel for oil and $4.11 a gallon for gasoline in July. (In today's dollars, that would be $150.87 for oil and $4.27 for gasoline.)
Although prices plunged late in 2008 as the financial crisis took its toll and the recession deepened, that kind of sharp increase could happen again as summer approaches.
''That's what frightens people,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service.
That fear is tempered by optimism -- if tensions ease in the Middle East, experts predict that energy prices will fall, with gasoline at the pump potentially dropping 50 cents a gallon or more because supplies are relatively strong in many parts of the country. Some analysts say the world price of oil could fall to $80 a barrel if tensions eased.
And there have been signs in recent days that Iran is feeling the pain of sanctions on its critical oil exports, perhaps increasing its willingness to negotiate with the West.
On Wednesday, Tehran offered Pakistan, which has been suffering power shortages, 80,000 barrels of oil a day on an easy payment plan. It also offered to accept gold rather than dollars for payment from any dealers hoping to get around the Western restrictions on the usual financial channels for buying oil.
And this week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told a Congressional committee that the administration was working hard to persuade India, China and Turkey, which represent more than a third of Iran's oil export market, to reduce their purchases.
While all three countries have said publicly that they will continue to buy from Iran, Mrs. Clinton said, ''in a number of cases, both on their government side and on their business side, they are taking actions that go further and deeper than perhaps their public statements might lead you to believe.''
Neal Soss, chief economist of Credit Suisse, said sustained high gasoline prices would definitely have an impact on the American economy. ''As a rule of thumb, a penny a gallon is worth a bit over $1 billion in consumer purchasing power if it is maintained a whole year. A dollar more would be something in excess of $100 billion, which is about the size of the Social Security tax cut.''
Despite a fall in gasoline demand in the United States and Europe, global oil markets are tightening because demand for energy from Asian countries, particularly China and India, is rising at surprisingly strong rates even as output is declining from several important producing countries.
Gasoline futures are surging, spurred in part by recent refinery closings that may produce a shortage of motor fuel in the Northeast states by summer.
Oil prices have surged about 8 percent since Iran threatened to cut off oil imports to France, Spain, Italy and other European countries three weeks ago as a pre-emptive move against Western moves to tighten sanctions. The European Union has decided to place an embargo on Iranian oil and ban shipping and insurance on its cargoes. Washington has decided on banking sanctions to curtail Iran's ability to earn money from its oil exports.
Middle East experts express doubts that Iran will follow through on its threats to stop supplying European customers or close the vital oil sea lanes of the Strait of Hormuz. But the saber-rattling from both sides is encouraging investors to buy oil futures contracts at higher and higher prices. Rising conjecture that Israel could launch a pre-emptive strike against Iranian nuclear facilities has heightened market jitters.
''The bankers are speculating, protecting themselves from higher prices by committing obligations to buy now, and that starts the ball rolling toward higher prices,'' said Sadad Ibrahim al-Husseini, former head of exploration and production at Saudi Aramco, the state oil company.
He added that the escalating civil turmoil in Syria, a crucial ally of Iran, ''is bound to increase price volatility and that will drive future speculation.''
The Japanese Foreign Ministry signaled on Wednesday that it was close to an agreement with Washington to further reduce shipments of oil from Iran, which have already declined about 20 percent since the beginning of the year.
But any success in tightening sanctions on Iran could squeeze global oil supplies, pushing up prices and causing serious economic repercussions at home and abroad.
''It's a bind for Obama,'' said Mr. Kloza at the Oil Price Information Service. ''How do you get tough on Iran without getting tough on American wallets?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An American helicopter and destroyer, right, patrol in the Strait of Hormuz. The ship at the left is an oil tanker. Below, prices on Wednesday at a station in Westchester County in New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HASSAN AMMAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS
SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Winter Month Indicator? The price of gasoline rose higher this February than in any other previous February. Some analysts worry that this could portend very high gas prices this summer. (Sources: Oil Price Information Service (OPIS)
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RECESSION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



20 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: A Splash of Romance in the Search for Paint

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
ACE HARDWARE this week is introducing an ad campaign for a new line of premium paints.
Called Clark+Kensington, the line combines paint and primer, comes in 120 colors and can be custom-tinted to almost any color. Although Ace Hardware, a retailer-owned cooperative based in Oak Brook, Ill., began selling the new private-label line last September, it is advertising it only now.
John Surane, Ace Hardware's senior vice president of merchandising, marketing, advertising and paint, said the cooperative wanted to reintroduce its paint department and increase awareness and consideration before the spring and summer painting seasons. To that end, the company is running a ''Free Paint Saturday'' on Saturday, giving customers a free quart of the new paint in a color of their choice.
According to Mr. Surane, Ace Hardware's paint sales represent less than 5 percent of all paint sales in the United States; he said the cooperative wanted to double its market share by 2015. In addition to the Clark+Kensington line, Ace Hardware stores also sell another private-label brand, Royal, and some of its stores sell Benjamin Moore paints. 
Another incentive for adding the new line, said Kent Furst, senior analyst for Freedonia Group, a research company in Cleveland, is that paint production ''has a much higher profit margin than Ace's normal retail business.'' He said, ''It makes sense that they would want to expand that.''
The company also has ''excess paint manufacturing capacity with the recession, since the demand for paint in the United States has declined in the last couple of years,'' he added.
--
The new campaign -- created by GSD&M, which is based in Austin, Tex. and has been Ace's agency since 2009 -- is a playful variation on Ace Hardware's longstanding tagline that calls its retailers ''the helpful hardware store.'' Thus, a 30-second TV spot depicts a woman at the paint chip wall of an Ace store. She tells the salesman she is ''looking for purple. But not like my favorite dress in college kind of purple.''
As she continues, the Ace salesman looks at eight men in a lineup, each in a different shade of purple from head to toe. As the woman says she is looking for a purple ''kind of like it's raining, only it's raining way, way, way, way, way over there purple ... Know what I mean?'' the salesman motions all but one of the men away. He says to the customer, ''Yeah, you want the color, but you don't want to be smothered by it ... Something you can live with for a long time.'' The narrator then says, ''Find your soul paint at Ace.''
A print ad shows a woman clutching a man, painted and dressed in burnt orange, on a motorcycle. The copy says: ''She found her soul paint, Crouching Tiger 4022 ... You'll find a harmonious color palette ... not to mention help from people who really know their stuff. All so you can finally find that perfect color you can live with for a long time.''
There is similar banner advertising, some of which promotes the paint giveaway.
Television and online advertising began Wednesday. The advertising is running on cable channels like HGTV and network programs like ''CSI,'' Shark Tank'' and ''Dateline,'' as well as on Web sites like RealSimple.com, MSN.com and HomeAway.com.
Online ads will run through August, while the TV spot will run through the fall. Print ads will run in March through May issues of magazines like Better Homes and Gardens and InStyle.
All ads refer viewers to Ace Hardware's Facebook page for more than 30 humorous videos of interviews with people who personify the new Clark+Kensington shades.
According to Dana Larsen, a brand manager for Ace Hardware, the new advertising, which is ''all about romance,'' is meant to appeal to women 25 to 44, ''who are the primary drivers in the selection of color.''
''Women make the color decision. They're the ones who struggle with it; they want to not have to make it again for a long time,'' she added.
Duff Stewart, president and chief executive of GSD&M, which is part of the Omnicom Group, said big retailers like Home Depot and Lowe's ''operate with lots of choices, and consumers are left to their own devices, there's no one there to help.'' But at neighborhood Ace stores, he said, ''the owner-associate has a much more personal relationship with consumers. They help consumers choose what's right for them through guidance and validation. By having someone help in the process, they give great paint.''
--
Founded in 1934, Ace Hardware now has 4,500 stores worldwide, 4,100 of them in the United States. Mr. Surane said Ace Hardware's paint advertising expenditures will increase 20 percent in 2012 versus 2011. According to Kantar Media, the company spent $49.2 million on all advertising in 2010, including $41.3 million from January through September; it said expenditures were $34.6 million in the same period of 2011.
Jack Horst, a retail strategist at Kurt Salmon, called the paint category ''the only one I can think of in the hardware business that creates an emotional attachment between the customer and the retailer.'' He said, ''With most hardware items, who cares? But paint is a really personal, emotional thing.''
The new campaign, he added, ''is a real clever way of attracting people to the store in a category that has the possibility of driving much deeper and emotional attachment to the rest of Ace.''
Barbara E. Kahn, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, praised the campaign's push to simplify the paint choice process.
''Choosing from a large assortment of options can be difficult,'' she said, ''and even more difficult if there are many items within the assortment that are very similar to each other. Anything that can make the decision process more inviting and less intimidating is bound to help.''
Although paint sales might be suffering because of the soft real estate market, she said they could be helped by the ''lipstick or nail polish effect: if I can't afford to move, I can afford to paint a room.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ace Hardware is running a campaign for its new line of private-label premium paint, Clark+Kensington. The TV spot, above, and the print ad, right, have a playful tone about finding the right color. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (90%); PAINTS & COATINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (89%); HARDWARE STORES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%)

COMPANY: ACE HARDWARE CORP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (94%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (94%); SIC5251 HARDWARE STORES (94%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



21 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: After Many Tough Choices, the Choice to Quit

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The looming Senate vote on a Republican plan to give employers the right to withdraw health care coverage based on religious and moral convictions put Senator Olympia J. Snowe in a tough but familiar position: weighing her own views as a Republican centrist against pressure from fellow Republicans to support the party position.
A longtime advocate of increasing access to health care and one of a dwindling number of Republican backers of abortion rights, Ms. Snowe believed that the language was too broad and could have unintended consequences. At the same time, an embattled Republican colleague, Senator Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, had publicly backed it, and a ''no'' vote from Ms. Snowe, of Maine, could isolate him as he sought to fend off anger in his heavily Democratic state.
It was the type of difficult choice that led to her surprise announcement on Tuesday to give up on the Senate, and it reflected growing uneasiness among Republican moderates with the return to a focus on social issues and with demands for party purity in the Republican electorate. 
''Everybody's got to rethink how we approach legislating and governance in the United States Senate,'' Ms. Snowe said in an interview on Wednesday. She shook her head at how ''we've miniaturized the process in the United States Senate,'' no longer allowing lawmakers to shape or change legislation and turning every vote into a take-it-or-leave-it showdown intended to embarrass the opposition.
The vote set for Thursday, framed as a choice between contraceptive coverage and religious freedom, was not the reason Ms. Snowe made her announcement, she said. Her retirement decision was bigger than any one vote. But people familiar with her thinking say the re-emergence of such hot-button social issues helped nudge her to the exit.
Georgia Chomas, a cousin of the senator who described herself as more like a sister, said social conservatives and Tea Party activists in Maine were hounding her at home, while party leaders in Washington had her hemmed in and steered the legislative agenda away from the matters she cared about.
''There was a constant, constant struggle to accommodate everyone, and a lot of pressure on her from the extreme right,'' Ms. Chomas said from her real estate office in Auburn, Me. ''And she just can't go there.''
Mike Castle, a former moderate Republican House member from Delaware and a friend of Ms. Snowe and her husband, expressed a similar view.
''All of a sudden we're talking about abortion. We're talking about contraception. We're talking about social issues that were not that big a deal,'' said Mr. Castle, who lost his 2010 Senate bid to a Tea Party insurgency during the primary.
''Senator Snowe wants to focus on bringing down the deficit and getting the economy on track, and that's where the priorities should be,'' said Gov. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, another moderate who served with Ms. Snowe in the Senate before leaving the Republican Party.
With the announcement by Ms. Snowe, the political center has all but given way in Congress, with both Republicans and Democrats who fashioned themselves as common-sense moderates stepping down or being booted out.
Abortion-rights groups say that only one Republican senator who strongly supports abortion rights, Susan Collins of Maine, will remain in 2013. Mr. Brown and Senator Mark Steven Kirk, Republican of Illinois, consider themselves pro-abortion rights, and Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, has a mixed record on abortion issues.
Groups that seek to elect Republicans who favor abortion rights still exist, but they struggle.
''When you're looking at the impact of all this, it should be of great concern to the United States of America,'' said Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a conservative Democrat up for re-election.
Ben Nelson of Nebraska, the senator often considered the most conservative Democrat, and Ms. Snowe, seen as the most liberal Republican, will both be gone next year, as will Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, an independent who left a Democratic Party that would not tolerate his pro-Iraq war stand. They follow a parade of centrists out the Senate doors in recent years, including the Democrats Blanche Lincoln and Evan Bayh; a Republican-turned-Democrat, Arlen Specter; and two Republicans-turned-independents, James M. Jeffords and Mr. Chafee.
Without such dealmakers, it is anyone's guess how major decisions on the tax code, budget deficit and entitlement changes will be made next year, regardless of the victors in the November election.
''I'll be interested in how all this is resolved, but I'm going to be reading about it in the paper in a duck blind,'' Mr. Nelson said.
Christie Whitman, a former Republican governor of New Jersey and Environmental Protection Agency administrator, pointed to social issues as the core problem in the polarization of American politics.
As anger over the state of politics increases apathy, ''only the most rabid partisans vote,'' so political strategists steer campaigns to issues that turn them on, said Ms. Whitman, who supports abortion rights. For Republicans, those are often social issues like abortion, gay marriage and contraception. But the rise of a new strain of fiscal conservatism has also led to moralistic portrayals of votes on spending and the debt limit. And when issues are framed around morality, compromise becomes very difficult.
''You can't compromise with someone who's amoral,'' she said.
The return of social issues has put the dwindling center of both parties in a vise. Senator Manchin said he planned to vote for the health care amendment, written by Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, to allow employers to withdraw health care coverage based on conscience or religion. But he has found himself crosswise with his state's Right to Life organization because he opposed cutting off all federal funding to Planned Parenthood, since he was satisfied that none of those funds went to abortion services.
''Is there pressure? Sure, there's pressure from all sides,'' Mr. Manchin said.
Ms. Snowe may have just grown fed up. At raucous Republican caucuses in February, her name was greeted with jeers from some Tea Party activists. Republicans had seized control of the governor's mansion and the State Legislature in 2010, but for the most ardent conservatives, it was not enough, Ms. Chomas said. Ms. Snowe had turned 65. Ms. Chomas's mother, who was like a mother to Ms. Snowe, had died, followed by the mother of Ms. Snowe's husband, John R. McKernan Jr., and the mother of her late husband, Peter Snowe.
''I understand her legacy,'' said Ms. Chomas. ''I just want her to be happy, and happy has been gone for a while.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Olympia J. Snowe is leaving at a time of uneasiness for centrists from both parties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Party Purity: The United States Senate has become more polarized as members have increasingly voted along with their party colleagues. (Source: U.S. Senate) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ABORTION (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); CONTRACEPTION (64%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (91%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



22 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: President Offers Theme of Nation Seeing Comeback

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has a new message: America has gotten its groove back.
In ways large and small, Mr. Obama has seized on a narrative of national optimism in recent weeks, offering a portrait of a country that, guided by him and powered by the American worker, is making a comeback. It is a narrative with strong echoes of President Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election campaign and one that is intended to provide a contrast with today's less sunny Republican candidates.
And, of course, it is meant to suggest that Mr. Obama himself has hit his own stride.
''I placed my bet on the American worker,'' he said Tuesday in a boisterously received speech at a United Automobile Workers conference that was centered on his often-criticized bailout of the auto industry three years ago. ''The American auto industry is back.'' 
In his State of the Union address in January, he went so far as to use the same three words that Mr. Reagan had in his own 1984 address: ''America is back.''
For Mr. Obama, the theme is intended to turn the country into something of a running mate. While Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner and often-unnamed foil in the president's speeches, may say the country has lost some of its global power and economic might, Mr. Obama remains full of hope and confidence, in a strategy that harks back to his 2008 campaign.
Still, while Mr. Obama has enjoyed a strong few weeks with improving poll numbers and economic data, there is danger in the optimism strategy. Things could turn at any moment and make him seem out of touch, with oil prices rising and foreign policy crises looming in Iran and Afghanistan and with European debt. Some liberals argue that the optimistic tone is out of step with the country's mood and that a campaign highlighting his differences with Republicans on economic issues has more promise.
''America's not back,'' said Stanley Greenberg, chief executive of Greenberg Quinlan Rosner, a polling company that works with Democrats. ''We have long-term fundamental problems with respect to personal debt, etc. If you look at our data and history, it takes a long time before job numbers translate into accepting at a personal level that things are better.''
Mr. Greenberg's firm did a poll of 1,000 likely voters after the State of the Union speech, testing the ''America is back'' message compared with Mr. Obama's other messages, and concluded that it is ''by far the weakest,'' according to a memo the firm put out after the poll.
Robert Dallek, the presidential historian, said: ''I think optimism is always a good thing for a president to make the case for.'' But, he added, ''the issue is what will the economy be like in September and October?''
White House officials say that they are cautious about going too far into the optimism camp and that the president will try to explain the potential for a better future -- provided, of course, that the country does not return to Republican policies that he argues helped lead to the crisis.
The Obama campaign is also trying to have it both ways, using the president to project a sunny picture while his top campaign aides continue to attack Mr. Romney on a daily basis -- on television and radio, in e-mails and on Twitter.
Meanwhile, the president takes the high road. During his speech to the auto workers, he cited a string of statistics to make his point: ''G.M. is back on top as the No. 1 automaker in the world, with the highest profits in its 100-year history. Chrysler is growing faster in America than any other car company.''
For Mr. Obama, it was the punctuation of weeks of high-profile outings in which he has spoken of American exceptionalism. On the same day that Mr. Obama visited a Boeing plant in Everett, Wash., two weeks ago and showcased Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner--''it's lighter, it's faster, it's more fuel-efficient than any airplane in its class, and it looks cool,'' he said -- the campaign released a report about the resurgence of the American manufacturers, arguing that Mr. Obama's stimulus plan helped American manufacturers to add nearly 400,000 jobs across the country.
Three weeks ago when the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate had fallen all the way back to the level of Mr. Obama's first full month in office -- 8.3 percent -- Democratic allies held events outside of local businesses around the country touting the number and showing a jobs chart provided by the Obama campaign. That chart, which shows American job losses beginning to slow shortly after Mr. Obama took office, has been making the rounds on Facebook pages and Twitter feeds, courtesy of the always quick-to-share-and-post Obama campaign.
''The Republicans are running on a gloom and doom vision of American decline,'' said Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the Obama campaign. Mr. Obama believes that ''if we promote policies that invest in the middle class, American will out-innovate and out-educate the rest of the world,'' Mr. LaBolt said.
In his State of the Union address, Mr. Obama emphasized the country's standing in the world, from its role in the Arab Spring to its tougher recent stance toward China. After pronouncing that the country was back, he declared, ''Anyone who tells you otherwise, anyone who tells you that America is in decline or that our influence has waned, doesn't know what they're talking about.''
The new message extends to Mr. Obama's public mood. He seems to have cast off the gloom of last year and is instead trying to shape himself into a happy, likable candidate. He chats up the reporters in the press cabin in the back of Air Force One and clearly enjoyed helping a student demonstrate a marshmallow shooter at a White House science fair. The first lady, Michelle Obama, and first dog, Bo, recently stunned tourists visiting the East Wing of the White House with an appearance. And the president himself last week did another impromptu singing performance, taking the microphone at a White House jazz event to croon a verse of ''Sweet Home, Chicago.'' He had sung a snippet of an Al Green tune at the Apollo Theater in January.
''He's channeling an appearance of positivity and optimism and patriotism, which are traditional positive virtues that most successful presidents trumpet when running for re-election,'' said Edmund Morris, the author of ''Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan.''
Ultimately, the success of Mr. Obama's new theme , and his re-election prospects, may depend more on reality than on anything he says. Mr. Reagan enjoyed both a somewhat lower unemployment rate at this point in his first term -- 8 percent -- and higher approval ratings than Mr. Obama. An optimistic tone is far harder to project when the economy does not cooperate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama last week at the University of Miami. He has been testing an ''America is back'' message while Republicans point to the country's ills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BAILOUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HISTORY (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); LIBERALISM (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



23 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Romney Wins, the Middle Class Loses

 BODY:
Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum fought each other to nearly a draw in the Michigan primary and may actually have to split its delegates, but together they may have lost Michigan for their party by running campaigns that were completely disconnected from the lives of middle-class voters and pushed ever farther to the right margins of American politics.
A month ago, the state was rated a tossup in this November's general election. But after voters got a taste of the Republican field, Michigan seems to be on President Obama's side of the ledger, along with Wisconsin. Both elected Republican governors in 2010, but large numbers of blue-collar voters have turned away from the party after realizing how little regard it has for their interests. 
Mr. Romney was unable to generate any enthusiasm in the state where he was born and where his family is well known. In fact, polls around the country have suggested that Republican primary voters are not thrilled with any of their choices so far. He won largely because of Mr. Santorum's blunders, including his inexplicable decision to denigrate the value of college and to declare his contempt for John F. Kennedy and the Constitution's mandate for an absolute separation of church and state.
Mr. Romney's victory speech Tuesday night was unlikely to do much about the Republican electorate's disappointment. Like his lightweight stump speeches around Michigan, he rattled off a long list of things he opposes: taxes (mostly on the rich), government spending (mostly on the poor), health care reform (for everyone). There was next to nothing about what he supports, with the exception of the Keystone XL oil pipeline. A blue-collar family that has suffered a job loss (or fears one) heard nothing that offered the promise of a more stable, hopeful future.
''We will abolish, finally, the death tax,'' he announced. That's great news to those with estates of $5 million or more. It was a slap in the face to those whose unemployment insurance is about to run out because his party has insisted on getting tough with jobless government freeloaders.
Middle-class voters did learn that Mr. Romney still opposes the auto-industry bailout that has saved the jobs of more than a million workers in Michigan and the region. (He called it a giveaway to unions, ignoring worker sacrifices that are well-known in the upper Midwest.) They learned how the 14 percent of Michigan residents who have no health insurance would be left on their own once the candidates get a chance to repeal health care reform. And they learned that Mr. Santorum is far more concerned about the menace of birth control and liberal college professors than he is about their struggles.
If they listened to Mr. Obama's fiery speech to the United Auto Workers on Tuesday, however, they heard a very different set of priorities: using government action to bring an entire industry back to life, raising taxes on the rich to avoid cutting programs for the poor, keeping insurance companies from cutting off the sick.
''Since when are hard-working men and women who are putting in a hard day's work every day -- since when are they special interests?'' the president asked, addressing the contempt for labor demonstrated by the candidates and several Republican governors in the Midwest. The answer explains why Mr. Obama was up by 18 points over Mr. Romney in a recent Michigan poll, and why Republican leaders are worried about their presidential field.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (87%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); GOVERNORS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ESTATE TAX (70%); BAILOUTS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (64%); DISMISSALS (62%); CHURCH & STATE (51%); RELIGION (51%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



24 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Sees Modest Growth for U.S. in 2012

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday that the central bank retained its modest expectations for the American economy this year, despite some recent signs of stronger growth.
Mr. Bernanke said the recent rise in oil prices also had not shifted the Fed's view that the economy would expand 2.2 to 2.7 percent this year, about the same pace as during the second half of last year.
He acknowledged that rising oil prices were ''likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing consumers' purchasing power.'' But the Fed expects the overall pace of increases in prices and wages to remain ''subdued,'' Mr. Bernanke said in testimony before the House Committee on Financial Services. 
Some economists see evidence that the pace of growth is increasing. The Bureau of Economic Analysis, an arm of the federal government, said on Wednesday that the economy grew at an annual rate of 3 percent in the last three months of 2011, somewhat higher than its initial estimate of 2.8 percent. The unemployment rate has declined to 8.3 percent in January from 9.1 percent last July.
But the Fed has remained cautious, and Mr. Bernanke repeated a familiar list of reasons for that stance, including the depressed housing market and turbulence in Europe. The Fed also has overestimated the pace of recovery several times in recent years.
''The recovery of the U.S. economy continues, but the pace of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical standards,'' Mr. Bernanke said. He noted that the Fed did not expect ''further substantial declines'' in the unemployment rate this year.
As a result, he said the Fed remained committed to continuing its economic stimulus efforts, keeping short-term interest rates near zero and maintaining a large portfolio of Treasuries and mortgage bonds to further reduce long-term rates, holding down borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.
Mr. Bernanke gave no indication that the Fed was considering new efforts, like increasing its holdings of mortgage-backed securities to bolster the housing market. Indeed, his remarks suggested that the Fed's attention was shifting to the possibility that the recovery is outpacing its expectations.
Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting firm in Valhalla, N.Y., said in a note to clients that Mr. Bernanke was more upbeat than he had expected.
''Mr. Bernanke did not make a clean break from his previous, glum view of the economy, but his position has shifted a bit,'' he wrote. ''This sounds like the start of the beginning of a process.''
Mr. Bernanke appears twice each year before the House committee and its counterpart, the Senate Banking Committee, for a formal review of the Fed's management of the nation's monetary policy. The Senate hearing is planned for Thursday.
Wednesday's House hearing unfurled along familiar lines, with Democrats applauding the central bank's efforts to spur the economy, while Republicans expressed concern that the Fed's actions would send inflation soaring out of control.
''I'd like to praise Chairman Bernanke for doing his job and really not bowing to the political pressure,'' said Representative Melvin Watt, a North Carolina Democrat. ''I just think he has done a magnificent job and the Fed has done a magnificent job of navigating us through some very, very difficult times.''
The sharpest counterpoint came from Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas and a candidate for president, who flourished an actual, shiny ounce of silver as he lectured Mr. Bernanke on the declining value of the dollar.
Mr. Paul, has long argued that people should be able to exchange dollars for precious metals.
''You love paper money,'' he said. ''I think money should be honest.''
Mr. Bernanke was deadpan in his response.
''First of all,'' he said, ''good to see you again.''
Much of the hearing focused on fiscal rather than monetary policy. Mr. Bernanke has become an outspoken advocate for Congress to adopt a long-term plan for reducing the government's annual deficits and growing debt. He warned Wednesday that the government faced a ''fiscal cliff'' at the end of the year, when a number of major policy changes are set to occur simultaneously, including the expiration of the Bush tax cuts and across-the-board reductions in government spending passed last year as part of a deal to raise the debt ceiling.
''I hope that Congress will look at that and figure out ways to achieve the same long-run fiscal improvement without having it all happen at one date,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
He declined several times to endorse the particular fiscal proposals of Democrats and Republicans on the committee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, Fed chairman, testified Wednesday. (B1)
 Representative Ron Paul displayed a silver coin during the hearing, lecturing the Fed chairman on the dollar's declining value. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BONDS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); RON PAUL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



25 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: A Big Day's Coming

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
On Sunday, we commemorate one of the most seminal moments in American history, the inauguration of President William Henry Harrison.
I know you have been waiting for this for months.
Harrison, who was elected in 1840, is remembered today for giving an Inaugural Address that was almost two hours long. The first sentence alone ran 100 words. The weather was wet and cold. He did not wear an overcoat, and he caught pneumonia and died a month later.
I believe that every March 4, stores should have special Harrison Inauguration Memorial sales in which all the warm winter clothing they are trying to clear off the shelves could be offered at stupendous savings. People could also give their loved ones special William Henry Harrison umbrellas, just to show they care. It would be great for the economy. 
The William Henry Harrison story is also an excellent opening for a discussion about one of the policy issues in the current Republican presidential campaign. It's about Mitt Romney and Social Security.
Romney gave an important speech about his economic agenda recently that hardly got any attention from the news media because reporters were distracted by the fact that Romney spoke to an audience of about 1,200 in a stadium that seats 65,000. It is small-mindedness like this that ruins presidential elections. Would that we were back in the days of William Henry Harrison, when the public worried about important things, like which candidate's supporters could roll a huge ball plastered with campaign posters through more towns.
Anyhow, among other things, Romney called for fixing part of the long-term Social Security imbalance by raising the retirement age. Then, in an effort to make a human connection with his audience, he mentioned that his wife has two Cadillacs and, really, that was pretty much the end of the day.
Romney has several ideas for Social Security, all involving cuts in benefits. He always makes it clear that near-retirees won't be affected. ''For the people who are already retired or 55 years of age and older, nothing changes,'' he said in a recent debate. Fifty-four-year-olds, have you noticed that you're always getting the short end of the stick? You really should consider forming an irrational one-issue political pressure group. If people who want the right to carry concealed weapons into bars can have one, so can you.
But about Social Security. When it became law in 1935, the retirement age was 65, but the average life expectancy was about 60 for men and 64 for women. Now the retirement age for full benefits is approaching 67, but the average life expectancy is over 78. Romney's thinking is that, the way we're going, retirees will be collecting forever. So we ought to raise the starting age.
All this brings us back to William Henry Harrison, who was 68 when he was sworn into office in 1841. The average life expectancy then was in the low 40s. Harrison was overdue! One of the Democratic newspapers called him ''a living mass of ruined matter.'' Personally, I think he gave that long speech in the rain just to prove he could. Although, apparently, he couldn't.
Now we see ads featuring handsome, energetic 60-something retirees announcing that they are finally ready to live out their dreams and move to Peru or start a rock band in the garage. If they have that much energy, why not make them keep working?
There are some good arguments against it, only one of which is all the unemployed 20-somethings who would really appreciate it if these people would get out of the way so they could take their jobs.
Another is that life expectancy statistics are heavily influenced by infant mortality, and the people in 1935 who actually made it to 65 tended to hang around for a good long time. Also, while urging people who are 65 to continue working is a fine thing -- presuming the person in question is not a coal miner -- I would like to hear Mitt Romney lead a discussion on professional opportunities for laid-off 63-year-olds.
The basic answer to fixing the long-term Social Security imbalance is just to eliminate the payroll tax cap, which currently exempts all income over $110,100 a year. Do that, and you have solved the problem. Politically speaking, you would probably have to agree to mix a limited tax increase with one of the fixes desired by fiscal conservatives, like reducing benefits for the wealthy, or changing the cost-of-living adjustment or, yeah, raising the retirement age a little. But the main answer is that cap, and anybody who refuses to even discuss the payroll tax cap is not serious about fixing Social Security.
Romney has already ruled out the payroll tax cap. Also, he once drove to Canada with his dog tied to the roof of the car. End of story.
And, remember, only two more shopping days until William Henry Harrison Inauguration Memorial Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (60%); GUN CONTROL (60%); LEGISLATION (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



26 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Fight Moves to Super Tuesday Battlegrounds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Having dodged political calamity with a victory on Tuesday night in his home state of Michigan, Mitt Romney quickly shifted his attention to Ohio on Wednesday morning as his chief rival vowed an aggressive, nationwide fight for the Republican nomination in the weeks ahead.
At a rally in Toledo, Mr. Romney hammered President Obama's leadership and argued that the Republican Party must nominate someone with the experience and the economic know-how to turn around a nation at risk of losing its way. 
''This president has made some promises that he couldn't keep,'' Mr. Romney said. ''He's out of ideas, he's out of excuses, and in 2012 we are going to make sure he's out of office.''
Speaking at American Posts, a small, family-owned factory that makes fence posts, Mr. Romney largely ignored his chief rival, Rick Santorum, as he argued that Mr. Obama has stood in the way of economic recovery during the past three years. Mr. Romney pledged across-the-board tax cuts, tougher trade policy and broad spending cuts.
''On Day 1, I will declare China a currency manipulator, allowing me to put tariffs on products where they are stealing American jobs unfairly,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I'm going to insist that China plays by the same rules.''
Mr. Romney's twin victories over Mr. Santorum in Arizona and Michigan have quieted -- for now -- what had been growing questions about his command of the Republican field and his ability to appeal to the conservative base of his party.
The victories earned him about three-quarters of the delegates at play Tuesday night, extending his numerical lead over his opponents. Mr. Romney won all 29 of Arizona's delegates and about half of those in Michigan, where the final allocation was still being worked out.
But the difficulty winning what was expected to be an easy contest in Michigan underscored how the Republican contest has become a slow, state-by-state slog. In addition to Ohio, nine other states will cast ballots in the Republican primaries and caucuses on Super Tuesday next week. After that, primaries and caucuses continue through June. Mr. Santorum spent the day campaigning in Tennessee, which is among the states holding primaries next week.
Mr. Santorum's failure to capitalize on his momentum threatened to undermine his argument that Mr. Romney will not be an ineffective nominee against Mr. Obama in the fall. But in radio interviews on Wednesday morning, Mr. Santorum said he felt ''very good'' about what his campaign accomplished and promised a vigorous campaign in the Super Tuesday states.
''We feel very, very good in the campaign that we waged,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''We're doing very good. We sustained ourselves. We think we are going to have a very, very good Super Tuesday.''
Mr. Santorum complained that Mr. Romney and his allies outspent him ''6 or 12 to one'' in the Michigan contest. But he predicted a more fair fight in the Super Tuesday states thanks to a surge in recent contributions to his campaign in February.
''I'd be stunned if we didn't out-raise Romney this month,'' Mr. Santorum said, estimating that his campaign raised as much as $9 million in the last 28 days. That would be a huge boost in financial support for a campaign that just weeks ago was running on fumes. Mr. Santorum also pointed out that Mr. Romney made an appeal for donations during his victory speech in Michigan on Tuesday night, an indication, Mr. Santorum said, that money might be a concern for Mr. Romney's campaign.
''He is increasingly relying and will be relying, on his big, megasuper donors,'' Mr. Santorum said, noting that two-third of his own donors have contributed less than $100 each, which means they can be tapped further without hitting contribution limits. ''That to me is a potential advantage for us going forward.''
During his swing on Wednesday through Tennessee, Mr. Santorum was scheduled to appear at events in Powell and Nashville. Tennessee is one of three states that Mr. Santorum said he expected to do well in on Tuesday. The other two, he said, are Ohio and Oklahoma.
But much of the focus will be on Ohio, a must-win state for Republicans in the general election and an important test for Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum as they try to prove that they can expand their bases of support.
In their victory speeches Tuesday night, neither Mr. Romney nor Mr. Santorum mentioned each other, choosing instead to focus their rhetoric on the economy and Mr. Obama even as the Republican contest moves to Ohio.
''We need a recovery from this recovery,'' Mr. Romney said, a message squarely aimed at the struggling middle class.
Mr. Santorum echoed that theme, saying that ''it's getting harder for people to make ends meet because we have a government that is crushing us every single day.'' Mr. Romney is campaigning on Thursday in North Dakota, a Super Tuesday state, and Washington State, which will caucus on Friday, but will return to Ohio on Friday for events there.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum are also scheduled to tape appearances on Mike Huckabee's weekend program on Fox News.
Also on Mr. Huckabee's program will be Newt Gingrich, who placed a distant fourth in Arizona and Michigan on Tuesday night after skipping both contests to focus on several Southern states that will vote next Tuesday.
Ron Paul, who came in third in both states Tuesday night, spent the evening in Virginia, where he will be the only challenger to Mr. Romney on Tuesday. Neither Mr. Gingrich, nor Mr. Santorum, qualified for the ballot in Virginia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



27 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
POWERFUL FIGURE EXPELLED
FROM AFRICAN POLITICAL PARTY
The leader of the Youth League of the governing African National Congress was expelled from the party, halting the rise of one of the most polarizing figures on South Africa's current political scene. Page A4 
CLASHES IN WESTERN CHINA
Violence in a remote region of China has underscored the tensions over Chinese rule in ethnic-minority areas just days before a national policy meeting in Beijing. Page A10
BANK REDUCES ITS IRAN TIES
An Islamic bank in the United Arab Emirates said that it took action to end business relationships with some Iranian banks. Page A13
Anti-Gay Law in Russia A14
National
TALKS FOR STOCKTON, CALIF.,
WITH UNIONS AND DEBTORS
Under a new law passed by the California Legislature, cities must hire a third-party mediator to help negotiate with unions and debtors for a period of 90 days before declaring Chapter 9 bankruptcy. Stockton will be the first to test the new procedure. Page A15
Warrant Roundup in Texas A15
New York
BILL WOULD BAN CONDOMS
AS EVIDENCE OF PROSTITUTION
Prosecutors are opposing a New York State legislation that would prohibit the possession of condoms from being used in criminal court as evidence of prostitution, but backers say it is gaining support. Page A27
Business
BERNANKE PREDICTS
MODEST GROWTH IN 2012
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said that the central bank retained its modest expectations for the American economy this year. Page B1
NEW AD POLICY FOR FACEBOOK
Facebook users will soon see more advertising on the site, including in their newsfeed, on their mobile devices and even when they log off. Page B2
EUROPEAN PARTNER FOR G.M.
General Motors said that it had agreed to an alliance with the French automaker PSA Peugeot Citroen. Page B4
SECOND ROUND OF LENDING
For the second time since December, the European Central Bank allocated more money to more euro zone banks through cheap, three-year loans. Page B10
Sports
REBUILDING AT BINGHAMTON
AFTER A COSTLY SCANDAL
Three years after celebrating its first-ever berth in the N.C.A.A. tournament, Binghamton University's basketball program imploded amid a costly scandal. This year, its 27-game losing streak was snapped. Page B13
TEXAS PANEL CRITICIZED
A Texas high school association is facing pressure over its decision not to reschedule the state semifinal game of a school whose players observe the Sabbath. Page B16
Arts
FRENCH CINEMA FESTIVAL
BEGINS IN NEW YORK
The annual Rendez-Vous With French Cinema series begins in New York City with a screening of the blockbuster ''Intouchables.'' Page C1
Home
ABC CARPET & HOME
PREPARES FOR OBAMA DINNER
Holding a political fund-raiser at a carpet store may seem an odd choice. But ABC Carpet & Home is no ordinary rug shop and President Obama, of course, is no ordinary candidate. Page D1
Style
THE FOCUS OF AN EXHIBITION,
GAULTIER GETS ANOTHER LOOK
Jean Paul Gaultier turns 60 in April. His couture is consistently brilliant and daring but his ready-to-wear, more often than not, has been hit or miss. This may be a time for reassessment, thanks in part to the popularity of an exhibition of his designs now touring museums in North America. Page E1
OP-ED
Gail Collins PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (87%); TOURNAMENTS (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ISLAMIC BANKING (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (70%); EURO ZONE (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FESTIVALS (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); FILM (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (61%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); FLOORING (60%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (82%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



28 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Through Alliance, G.M. to Take a Stake in Peugeot

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors said on Wednesday that it had agreed to form a ''long-term and broad-scale'' alliance with the French automaker PSA Peugeot Citroen, including the purchase of a 7 percent stake in the company, to share vehicle architectures and jointly buy parts.
The companies said they expected the partnership to produce annual savings of about $2 billion, which they would split roughly evenly, within five years. But it will have limited benefits the first two years, as both carmakers restructure their money-losing operations in Europe, including job cuts and, potentially, plant closings. 
The alliance will give G.M. access to more small-car platforms and help the companies' ability to negotiate lower prices from suppliers. It is expected to be operational by the second half of this year, G.M. said.
''Just to be clear, this is an alliance -- not a merger,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, said in a conference call with analysts and reporters. ''This does not replace either company's ongoing independent efforts to return their European operations to sustainable profitability.''
G.M. said it would acquire its shares of Peugeot, the world's eighth-largest automaker, as part of a 1 billion euro rights offering. The offering is to be underwritten by a syndicate of banks and to include an investment by the Peugeot family aimed at instilling confidence in the alliance's success.
After the purchase, G.M., 26 percent of which is owned by the American government, will be Peugeot's second-largest shareholder after the Peugeot family, which owns a little more than 30 percent.
Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive, said that the deal had the potential to produce more benefits than some past G.M. attempts to tie up with rivals but that it did not address some of the company's most pressing problems in Europe, where it lost $747 million last year. (In contrast, G.M. earned $7.2 billion in North America.)
''I don't know that it helps with some of G.M.'s basic issues, like overcapacity and labor costs,'' Ms. Lindland said, ''but if they can't necessarily save money by fixing those things, then this allows them to save money elsewhere.''
Another analyst, Peter Nesvold, called the deal ''a bit of a head-scratcher,'' saying it seemed counter to many of G.M.'s moves since its 2009 bankruptcy. He said Peugeot stood to benefit more than G.M., even though G.M. was the one making a cash investment.
''We respectfully see many reasons to be skeptical about the magnitude of today's news,'' Mr. Nesvold wrote in a note to clients. ''G.M. is already the biggest automaker in the world; scale isn't the company's challenge.''
The companies said they planned to collaborate first on small and midsize cars, crossovers and so-called multipurpose vehicles, and were also considering creating an architecture for low-emission vehicles. Vehicles built with the jointly developed architectures are expected to be sold by 2016, the companies said.
G.M. and Peugeot will continue to market and sell their vehicles independently.
The companies said they had combined annual purchasing volumes of $125 billion, with G.M. accounting for about three-quarters of that amount. They said the alliance could ultimately expand to include other facets of their operations.
''This scale is unmatched,'' said Philippe Varin, chairman of Peugeot's management board. ''Today is just a start. We'll continue to look for opportunity to provide value.''
G.M. has a poor track record of working with other automakers in Europe, though its joint ventures in China have produced substantial profits. G.M. paid $2 billion in 2005 to sever a five-year-old partnership with Fiat, which went on to take over Chrysler in 2009. It sought an alliance with Nissan and Renault in 2006 but could not reach a deal.
Mr. Akerson said the Peugeot partnership would be different from the Fiat tie-up because it would be more balanced between the participants and create concrete synergies. With Fiat, the deal included a put option that acted like ''a loaded gun at the head of General Motors,'' he said, whereas the Peugeot deal is more straightforward.
Mr. Akerson also said lessons learned from past failed alliances would help this one succeed.
Before completing the alliance, the companies must obtain regulatory approval and notify affected worker councils, though G.M. said it did not expect any difficulty.
In 2009, G.M. made a deal to sell its Adam Opel unit in Europe as it was running low on cash, but it later reversed course and decided to restructure the business itself to maintain access to Opel's technology and other assets. Opel has been unprofitable for more than a decade, and Europe's recent economic struggles have worsened G.M.'s problems there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PSA Peugeot Citroen's plant in Poissy, France. Peugeot and General Motors hope an agreement will save them $2 billion a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE DIMIER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MERGERS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



29 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Iran Invokes the West to Motivate Voters

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the days leading up to Iran's parliamentary elections on Friday, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and other top officials have been crisscrossing their country to issue stern warnings against a vast Western conspiracy, driven by panic, to undermine the vote. The official news media have amplified the campaign: ''U.S. Dreads Iranians' Turnout in Elections,'' read one typical banner on Press TV, the state-run English-language vehicle.
That may come as a surprise outside Iran, where the elections are widely ignored, or dismissed as a contest among an ever-narrower circle of archconservatives. But this is no ordinary election. It is the first one to take place since the presidential election of 2009, which set off widespread accusations of fraud, vast street protests and a bloody crackdown lasting months that effectively eviscerated any viable opposition. 
Now the Iranian authorities -- who have long promoted voter turnout as an index of their government's democratic legitimacy -- must lure people back to the polls. It will not be easy: the leaders of the opposition movement have been placed under house arrest or jailed, along with hundreds of their leading supporters. The newspapers and other media organs that were allied with them have been shut down or silenced; more than three dozen prominent reporters have been jailed. The ideological spectrum of those running for Iran's weak 290-member Parliament, known as the Majles, runs ''from pitch black to dark gray,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Even among many ordinary people without clear political affiliations, faith in the power of voting appears to have suffered badly, many analysts say.
So far, the authorities have tried to get out the vote in familiar jingoistic ways, portraying themselves as under siege by an arrogant West. War veterans are trotted out to urge voters to go to the polls, and the intelligence minister, Heydar Moslehi, has warned about insidious plots to keep people from voting. ''A vibrant election will give the enemy a strong punch in the mouth,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said Wednesday at a gathering in northwestern Iran, according to the state-run Mehr News Agency.
A high turnout may be especially important now, in light of Iran's darkening economic prospects and increasingly fragmented political scene. New sanctions imposed this year by the United States and Europe have had unprecedented effects on Iran's private sector and middle class. And Ayatollah Khamenei appears to be increasingly unpopular, with some conservatives breaking a taboo by criticizing him openly.
At the same time, most analysts say the government will report a turnout of 60 percent or higher, regardless of what happens on Friday. Unlike in 2009, protests are unlikely even if there are clear indications of fraud, because expectations are so low, said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, a professor of political science at Syracuse University. Nor is a high turnout a clear sign of support for the state: Many Iranians will vote to avoid getting into trouble, because their national ID cards are stamped at the polls.
If there is any drama in the election, it has to do with the bitter conflict between two groups of conservatives: allies of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and a hard-line faction of clerics and Revolutionary Guards commanders claiming to back Ayatollah Khamenei. Although no one in Iran's political class dares to challenge Ayatollah Khamenei openly, the president has successfully elevated the power of his office since he was first elected in 2005, and hopes to maintain his influence through allies in Parliament even after his second term ends in 2013. Those ambitions have bred tensions with Ayatollah Khamenei, who has final authority in Iran's government, and the two men had an unusual public spat last May. Mr. Ahmadinejad and his allies, including his controversial chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, have raised large amounts of money through the privatization of state industries since 2005, and some analysts say they could use that money to help elect their favored candidates, or even bring new Parliament members to their side after the election.
''Ahmadinejad wants to take control of the Parliament for two main reasons,'' said Muhammad Sahimi, a professor at the University of Southern California who writes for the Web site Tehran Bureau. ''He wants to prevent his rivals in Parliament from impeaching him -- as they've been threatening for a long time -- and he wants, through Parliament, to influence the presidential election of 2013.''
Some of the hard-liners who oppose Mr. Ahmadinejad even say they fear he will manipulate the vote through the Interior Ministry, which supervises the election, echoing the anxieties of the reformist camp prior to the 2009 presidential vote. The president's supporters dismiss those accusations, but often complain in parallel form about a harsh campaign that demonizes them as an anti-Islamic ''deviant current.''
One of Mr. Ahmadinejad's closest aides, Ali Akbar Javanfekr, lashed out at the president's parliamentary rivals during an interview in Tehran last month, saying that the president's allies would crush them in the polls and that ''we have many bad documents that implicate them, and we will make those documents public if necessary.'' That kind of threat has become familiar in recent months, and it is not clear how much weight it carries. Mr. Javanfekr's own fate illustrates the bitterness of the intra-conservative political battle: he was briefly arrested and handcuffed in his office during a humiliating raid in November, and last month was sentenced to six months in prison for writings that were deemed insulting to the supreme leader.
So far, Mr. Ahmadinejad appears to have benefited from persistent schisms among the conservative forces arrayed against him. But many analysts doubt that he will succeed in gaining greater power over Parliament, where his rivals outnumber his supporters by a healthy margin. Despite an unusual spate of public criticisms of Ayatollah Khamenei, the supreme leader still wields tremendous power. ''I don't see anyone who's close to really challenging Khamenei's authority,'' Mr. Sadjadpour said.
Another possible outcome of the election is a decrease in parliamentary support for Mr. Ahmadinejad. That could pave the way for the elimination of the presidency, analysts say -- something Ayatollah Khamenei hinted at last year.
''If the supreme leader ends up with a Parliament full of subservient yes-men, the only obstacle left for him is the office of the president, and he may go ahead and eliminate it,'' Professor Boroujerdi said.
It is unlikely that this struggle among conservatives will have much bearing on issues relevant to the West like Iran's nuclear program, which is championed across the board in Iran. Mr. Ahmadinejad is widely said to want a settlement with the West that would ease Iran's economic isolation. But as a lame-duck president, he can hardly hope to control such an important decision, even if his allies win a dominant position in Parliament.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of a paramilitary group handed out leaflets recently in Tehran in support of a party that says that religion is more important than democracy.
 Ruhollah Hosseinian, a parliamentary candidate belonging to a hard-line religious party in Iran, spoke to supporters in Tehran on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEWSHA TAVAKOLIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ARRESTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); HOUSE ARREST (66%); VETERANS (50%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (88%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



30 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: To Forge a Comeback, Santorum Focuses on Ohio

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Perrysburg, Ohio, and Jeremy W. Peters from New York.

 BODY:
WEST CHESTER, Ohio -- With Mitt Romney pulling out a pair of victories on Tuesday night, the pressure is on Rick Santorum to prove he remains a viable challenger by scoring at least a handful of major wins five days from now on Super Tuesday. And his main target is Ohio, where Christian conservatives and working-class voters provide a tempting demographic mix for his comeback effort.
Expectations are high: polls taken before Tuesday's Michigan and Arizona primaries showed Mr. Santorum running strongly against Mr. Romney here in Ohio, in some ways the most important state to vote next Tuesday and a crucial swing state in the fall.
On Wednesday, Mr. Romney traveled right to Ohio to campaign in Toledo and outside Columbus with a message tailor-made for the Rust Belt state, accusing China of ''taking away our jobs'' and putting ''American businesses out of business'' by keeping its currency artificially low. He called Mr. Santorum an ''economic lightweight.'' 
In some ways, the contest here is a test of Mr. Santorum's emerging appeal to voters and the Republican leadership and whether he alone can draw the working-class white voters who can tilt states into the party's column in November. Indeed, surveys of Michigan voters found that he had drawn more support than Mr. Romney among those who are not college graduates and who make between $30,000 and $100,000 a year, while Mr. Romney carried most college graduates and wealthier voters.
The battle lines in this state seem clear. Mr. Romney has support from many members of the Republican establishment, including Senator Rob Portman and the senator he succeeded, George V. Voinovich. But Mr. Santorum is riding a wave of enthusiasm among anti-abortion activists, Roman Catholics and evangelicals and appears to be gaining strength among working-class voters with his message about jobs, energy and manufacturing.
Still, Mr. Santorum's few big-name surrogates here have been working to tamp down expectations, anticipating the impact of well-financed negative advertisements on behalf of Mr. Romney.
''We're going to have a close race in Ohio,'' said Mike DeWine, the Ohio attorney general, who abandoned his endorsement of Mr. Romney last month to back Mr. Santorum. ''It's a crucial state. It's a swing state.
''I think he's going to win,'' he said of Mr. Santorum, ''but it's going to be close.''
Already, Mr. Romney's campaign and the ''super PAC'' backing him have, combined, committed $3.4 million here to television and radio advertising through Tuesday, according to data from a rival campaign. Mr. Santorum's campaign and the super PAC that supports him have committed just over $500,000, according to a media strategist who tracks advertising spending.
Mr. DeWine pointed out that Ohio has seven media markets, raising the cost of covering the entire state, and that Mr. Romney's high-dollar advertising had had a big impact in other places: ''There's been no state yet it hasn't narrowed the gap.''
He also noted Mr. Santorum would not be able to compete for nine of Ohio's 66 delegates, having failed to qualify for them in three Congressional districts.
Still, Mr. Santorum is exhibiting a strong pull here.
''I see Santorum as a guy that can go into a union hall and at least make eye contact with a hard-core Democrat, and remind them that their father voted for Ronald Reagan,'' said Ed Kasputis, a former Republican state legislator who is now a lawyer and a business owner in Cleveland.
So far, Mr. Santorum's rise here has come at the expense to some extent of Newt Gingrich, who, after losses in Florida and Nevada, was banking on a comeback in Ohio and other Super Tuesday states. Instead, momentum has shifted to Mr. Santorum despite a shaky debate performance last week, a barrage of attacks by the Romney campaign that he is not a true conservative and even his remark, which he has sought to take back, that President John F. Kennedy's speech on the separation of church and state had made him want to vomit. A poll released on Monday by Quinnipiac University had Mr. Santorum leading Mr. Romney here 36 percent to 29 percent, the same as almost two weeks earlier.
In fact, polls suggest Mr. Santorum is well-positioned in three of the five Super Tuesday states with the most delegates -- Ohio, Tennessee and Oklahoma -- and battling Mr. Romney for second place in the top delegate state next week, Georgia, which Mr. Gingrich represented in Congress for many years. In all, 10 states will be up for grabs on Tuesday, with more delegates at stake -- 437 -- than on any other day and more than every other contest to date combined.
Those polls do not reflect the possibility that Mr. Romney's victories on Tuesday could hurt Mr. Santorum going into Super Tuesday, but many social conservatives in Ohio, like Phil Burress, an influential anti-abortion and anti-pornography activist north of Cincinnati, seem unmovable in their support for Mr. Santorum. They feel he has shown a consistent dedication to conservative values, even if his public appearances have sometimes not been Reagan-like. Mr. Burress said he figured any candidate who had served a dozen years in the Senate would by necessity have a number of votes that opponents could use against him.
''If that's all you got, then he looks pretty solid to me,'' Mr. Burress said of recent attacks on Mr. Santorum's record. He said that while Mr. Romney could expect a lot of help from Ohio social conservatives in November should he be the nominee -- more than Senator John McCain got four years ago in losing the state -- Mr. Santorum had given them more reason to support him now and was the only candidate energizing the evangelical base, which makes up more than a third of Ohio Republican primary voters.
Social conservatives here also say Mr. Santorum has voiced support for what has become a key litmus test for many evangelicals: the ''Heartbeat Bill'' in the state legislature, which would ban abortions after a fetus has a detectable heartbeat, typically six to eight weeks. Supporters of the measure say Mr. Romney has not taken a position on it; queries to the Santorum and Romney campaigns about the legislation were not answered. While a recent poll found that Ohio Republicans backed the bill by a two-to-one ratio, some prominent anti-abortion groups oppose it for fear it may lead to a legal setback.
Thomas E. Niehaus, the president of the Ohio Senate and a Romney backer, played down the bill's importance, noting the split between anti-abortion activists, and said Mr. Romney had ''significant momentum'' in Ohio.
He conceded that voters focused primarily on social-conservative issues were still likely to favor Mr. Santorum, but added, ''Any voters looking at broader issues, like jobs and work force development,'' will probably favor Mr. Romney.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An audience in Steubenville, Ohio, showed its support for Rick Santorum at a campaign stop this week ahead of Super Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



31 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief's Remarks Stop a Winning Streak

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks slipped on Wednesday, ending a four-day winning streak after comments from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, disappointed investors hoping for a signal of more stimulus. 
The Fed chairman's comments drove the dollar up 0.7 percent against a basket of major currencies and sent materials lower. Gold fell 5 percent in late trading. The S.&P. Materials Index lost 1.7 percent, making it the worst-performing sector of Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Mr. Bernanke offered a tempered view of the nation's economy, weakening the notion that recent upbeat signs heralded a stronger recovery. But he gave no hint of new asset purchases, which the Fed has used in recent years to increase growth.
''People just viewed him as slightly more hawkish than he has been previously. I would emphasize the word 'slightly,' '' Michael Marrale, managing director and head of sales trading at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said.
The modest scope of the day's decline indicated that investors were inclined to take some profits after a rally that has driven the S.& P. 500 up 8.6 percent since the end of December.
Stocks registered healthy gains for the month of February, after equally robust gains for January.
Reports suggesting more improvement in the economy curbed the day's losses, however. The Nasdaq briefly topped 3,000 for the first time since mid-December 2000.
The Nasdaq's move followed the Dow's close above 13,000 for the first time since May 2008 on Tuesday, the latest in a string of milestones for the market, and analysts said traders might have been booking profits after the new highs.
High-tech issues, which drove Tuesday's advance, helped lead the retreat, with the Philadelphia Semiconductor index down 1.6 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average shed 53.05 points, or 0.41 percent, to 12,952.07 at the close. The S.& P. 500-stock index slipped 6.50 points, or 0.47 percent, to 1,365.68. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 19.87 points, or 0.67 percent, to 2,966.89.
For the month, the Dow gained 2.5 percent, the S.& P. 500 rose 4.1 percent and the Nasdaq climbed 5.4 percent.
Analysts warned that the year's rally had come on light volume, noting that hitting new highs could set off selling.
In February, daily volume on the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Amex and Nasdaq averaged 6.87 billion shares. Last year, the average daily volume in February was 7.81 billion.
Among reports that helped to limit losses, the Fed said in its beige book that the nation's economy expanded modestly in January and through mid-February.
Among the day's decliners, Lufkin Industries, a seller of oil field pumping units and power transmission products, fell 2.3 percent to $79.64 after it said it would acquire Zenith Oilfield Technology of Britain for about $127 million in cash.
Interest rates were slightly higher.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 9/32, to 100 8/32, and the yield rose to 1.97 percent from 1.94 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%)

COMPANY: RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (56%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); LUFKIN INDUSTRIES INC (50%)

TICKER: LUFK (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS (50%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



32 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Flex-Fuel Amendment Makes for Strange Bedfellows

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Automakers and environmental groups were united in their opposition to the amendment, which would require most cars and light-duty trucks built in 2018 to run on any combination of gasoline, ethanol and methanol. 

 BODY:
Faced with a bill that would require 80 percent of gasoline-burning cars and trucks to be compatible with ethanol and methanol by the 2018 model year, stakeholders who typically disagree on critical issues find themselves in a rare position. They agree.
The legislation, known as the Open Fuels Standard Act of 2011 and introduced in the Senatelast September by the Washington Democrat Maria Cantwell and Indiana Republican Richard G. Lugar, was proposed as an amendment to the pending Senate version of the contentious transportation bill.
Environmentalists and automakers, as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the American Meat Institute, are united in their opposition to the legislation. In a letter addressed Monday to House and Senate majority leaders, the groups said that consumers who wanted flex-fuel vehicles could already buy them.
"Currently, there are nearly 10 million flex-fuel vehicles (F.F.V.'s) on U.S. roads, yet on average they use less than a single tankful of E85 per year," it said, referencing the ethanol formulation also opposed by environmental groups and automakers. The letter's authors went on to describe the proposed amendment as "a misguided consumer mandate that will lead to unintended consequences on vehicle manufacturers, the supply chain and emerging technologies."
Under the bill, so-called flex-fuel cars and trucks, which can run on ethanol or gasoline, would be labeled Fuel Choice-Enabling Vehicles. "Phasing in vehicles that can run on fuels other than petroleum will allow a whole host of new domestic sources of transportation fuel to come online, which should reduce our dangerous overdependence on foreign oil and help keep American dollars here at home," Ms. Cantwell said in a statement.
The amendment attracted praise from the United States Energy Security Council in Washington, which said in a letter Thursday that the proposal was "the simplest, least-cost approach for reducing the strategic importance of oil and the corresponding liability of gasoline price spikes that wreak havoc on our economy and American family budgets."
The council includes Tom Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania and former secretary of homeland security, and Mary E. Peters, the former secretary of transportation, who co-authored an editorial that appeared in The Times on Feb. 23 in favor of prioritizing the production of methanol. The former central intelligence director, James Woolsey, and a former national security adviser, Robert McFarlane, co-signed the letter sent Thursday.
Environmentalists, including those who support research into advanced cellulosic ethanol from plants, reacted coolly to the proposal, which was criticized for supporting the current corn-ethanol infrastructure. "This bill is too aggressive," David Friedman, deputy director at the Clean Vehicles Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, said in a telephone interview. "There may be a time when we need to require auto companies to add alternative-fuel technology to their vehicles, but this legislation moves too far, too fast."
In an e-mail, Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents the interests of the 12 biggest automakers in the United States, called the proposal a "'Field of Dreams' mandate." Her assessment had support from Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign at the Center for Auto Safety, an organization that has often opposed the alliance on critical issues. "Once a century, the auto industry is right," he wrote in a an e-mail.

        
In Chrysler Deal, Cellulosic Ethanol Firm Gets a Prominent Partner
        
Wheelies: The 10-Car-Garage Edition
        
Wheelies: The Spare Parts Edition
        
Congressman Presses California on Fuel-Economy Standards
        
Budget Shortfall Could Imperil Subsidies for Electric Vehicles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GASOLINE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); SOLVENTS MFG (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNORS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); WRITERS (66%); INTERVIEWS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Congress; Ethanol; flex fuel; Automobiles; Law and Legislation; Environment; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEAT INSTITUTE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (57%); DICK LUGAR (57%); MARY PETERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



33 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Perspective, Region by Region

BYLINE: KEVIN MCKENNA


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve, in the survey widely known as the beige book, found encouraging growth at the start of year across most of its 12 banking districts. A chart from The Times breaks down the results by region. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve, in the survey widely known as the beige book, found solid growth at the start of year in all 12 of its banking districts. A chart from The Times breaks down the results by region. Read more 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (88%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



34 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: A Special Section on Continuing Education

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: A selection of articles from The Times's special section on continuing education. 

 BODY:
Thursday's Times included a special section devoted to continuing education. The cover story, by Steven Greenhouse, is about colleges that are tailoring their programs to help students find jobs in this economy.
"We've become much more focused, much more agile and much more driven by what the data is telling us on where the jobs are," said Bob Templin, president of Northern Virginia Community College. "We're very market-oriented now, whereas before we would offer the courses that people were interested in teaching and we'd see who would show up. In the last 24 months, we've thoroughly reorganized our continuing-education unit, and we now refer to it as 'Work Force Development in Continuing Education.' "
Even though nearly 13 million Americans are still out of work, many employers complain that they cannot find the right people to fill myriad job openings - for example, specialists in medical information technology or operators of computer-controlled manufacturing machinery. All told, the nation's employers have 3.4 million job openings, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics - a number of jobs that if filled could cut the unemployment rate, currently 8.3 percent, to around 6 percent.
Cecilia Capuzzi Simon reports that students are hiring independent education consultants to help them strengthen their applications for selective colleges.
Business for independent academic consultants has grown considerably as traditional students seek an edge in high-stakes undergraduate admissions. (Some 160,000 high school seniors used them in 2009, 100,000 more than in 2005, according to the Independent Educational Consultants Association.)
Adults represent a small portion of that business, but as a sour economy makes even seasoned professionals consider further education, more working adults are seeking such advice on admissions and careers. For them, much is on the line - jobs, finances, time, lifestyle sacrifices.
An article by Phyllis Korkki also examines the expansion of course offerings that prepare students to face the world.
More continuing education departments, like Brown's, have recognized that if they are to meet students' demands for global knowledge, they must provide instruction in culture, customs, laws, marketing and more, in addition to the standard foreign language classes. 
An article by Jennifer Preston examines whether employers expect job candidates to be proficient with social media.
For midcareer executives, particularly in the media and related industries, knowing how to use Twitter, update your timeline on Facebook, pin on Pinterest, check in on Foursquare and upload images on Instagram are among the digital skills that some employers expect people to have to land a job or to flourish in a current role. 
There are other articles in the special section that readers of The Choice might find interesting, including one by David Wallis about veterans returning to college after military life.
Read the complete special section on continuing education and let us know your thoughts in the comments box.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (53%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (52%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (52%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (50%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Labor and Jobs

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: DAVID W WALLIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



35 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: Terminal Miami

BYLINE: CHOIRE SICHA


HIGHLIGHT: In a city of wrecks, I got over my fear of flying. 

 BODY:
I had been to Miami exactly one time before I moved here, unwillingly, if also gratefully, as a recession refugee. Departing on March 1, 2010, in what my East Village landlord's lawyer later referred to as "the dead of night" (it was actually midmorning), I left behind some furniture, a low six figures of debt and most everyone I'd ever met. I carted the books I didn't think were worth taking across the street to the bookstore, and the booksellers in turn quietly carted the books they thought not worth taking to the trash cans on the northeast corner of St. Mark's and First Avenue, and so I drove off for the last time amid a mess of flying pages.
Immediately Miami seemed to be about things crashing into things. The woman who, head down, drove round the corner of the parking garage and slammed into the front of my car without so much as braking. The pelican that splat-bounced off the windshield. (There is, it turns out, no amenable city or county hot line to call about a struck pelican.) The star cracks left in the glass by some millionaire's dazed gardener on a green street in Miami Beach, leaf-blowing pebbles traffic-ward. Beyond the front seat, there was also the news spectacle of the police officer who, trying to impress a woman, drove an all-terrain vehicle over people waiting at the shore for sunrise. On the sides of the roads, there were always fresh wrecks; fenders and hoods and bits everywhere, girls' faces in their hands. Everyone coming to a near-stop to watch. 
I drove to Miami because, conveniently, my car had to get here somehow, but in truth I'd barely flown since one terrible trip between D.C. and California in the early 1990s. Miami made me start to think I'd be better off in the air. Mine was a proud New York car; it had previously seen only snow and the vicious potholes of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, yet once on the road here we were forced to dodge an actual oven that fell off an old pickup truck on I-95, a road I still think of as the way to New Haven. I live a few blocks from the end of that interstate, and sometimes considered, when driving over to Walgreens for a pack of Winstons, just continuing on to the safer territory of the north. (Besides, I still haven't completely unpacked the trunk.) 
If this seems like an awful lot of things about cars, it's because Miami is about transport. If it's not the car, it's the boat. And if it's not the boat, it's planes. Except for the Seminole and the Miccosukee, most everyone here is from somewhere else (although not the Cubans, as Cuba's more like our Staten Island). Most everyone else seems like a stray. The billboards advertise the new nonstops to Madrid; almost half the passengers at the airport are bound outside the United States; English is the first language of one-quarter of the county's population. Also, the other day I met my first Filipino Jew - though to be fair, he came by way of New York.
But beyond the disorder and collisions of far-off strangers meeting all-too-suddenly, there are points of order: the long banks of the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden and the green waters of the John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park, America's first undersea park. The serene, open-air Bal Harbour mall, quietly crammed with Loro Piana and Bottega Veneta, has some of the highest-earning retail space per square foot in the United States. An hour southwest, across miles of the forgotten and excluded (picture the map of "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City," particularly the abandoned warehouse district and the freeway-locked Overtown, which were modeled on this part of the city), you find the relaxing five-acre-minimum plots of Redland. There it's all free-roaming dogs and peacocks and horses amid mangoes and avocados. As you go south it becomes even more California, what with the prisons, migrant workers and South Florida's greatest tortilla shop. 
But besides the divide between rich and not rich, there are no extremes here: not a hill, not a valley. It's flat straight across from the beach to the long straight road on the edge of town, where everything stops and devolves into grassland and turtles and cedars and great blue herons. (And wherever you go, there's WVUM, which hosts Vamos a la Playa, the exceptionally smooth, electro-suave, beach-sexy sounds of Laura of Miami, one of the truly great D.J.'s of our time.)
There was never anything to run off to: no parties, no birthday drinks, no after-work get-togethers. So in the evenings, I took to sitting downstairs by my apartment building's pool, smoking the incredibly inexpensive local cigarettes, staring out at Miami's bay. All through the twilight, you could see airplanes coming in, all lined up, from out at sea. From little dot to roaring overhead, they'd come in, little shiny capsules on a long string.
Miami's airport is fairly distinct from most of America's other big city airports in that it is in the thick of the city. Technically, that's not true at all: the city of Miami's western border actually stops exactly at the airport, but then the actual city is only 36 square miles. (The little island of Manhattan is 23 square miles.) But the airport is in the center of the occupied area. I can clearly see the control tower from my place, and I'm as far as you can get from it in Miami proper.
Miami International Airport has four runways. Almost 80 percent of the time, according to airport executives, Miami's winds are from the east-southeast. The three southern-most runways are mostly used to take off to the east, toward the ocean and the wind. The airport now has around 1,100 "operations" each day; 550 each of takeoffs and arrivals. That is, very roughly, an operation every four minutes per runway. (Though like most facts, that's a meaningless average; 93 percent of the traffic takes place between sunrise and sunset.) 
But this is how I started getting over my fear of flying. Here I was, watching plane after plane not crash, ever. It was the constant, orderly presence of airplanes in Miami that cured me. Therapy would start each morning, the overnights from Europe and South America coming in hot and empty. The first American Airlines flight to J.F.K., Flight 518, leaves each day at 6:40 a.m. It is a Boeing 767-300 and it always has a seat; when I hear it take off, I like to picture the men going up to New York for the day with just a manila folder and a BlackBerry. What others might have found a disturbance (the airport tends to receive noise complaints from my neighborhood), I found comforting. Just another plane, going somewhere exciting, happily embedded in the thick, Jello-y air.
Not that I'm not still an actively imaginative flier, and my imagination tends toward the most bizarre. As an airport, like a city, is a fight against nature, the worst time of the year here for the nervous is probably the winter, when the birds migrate south, and the gorgeous turkey buzzards start flying the thermals. The airport has folks who, from sunrise to sunset, spend their entire day scaring birds away from the airspace with pyrotechnics. Birds, like all of us, get acclimated to noise and need to be surprised. Miami has a landfill about seven miles west of the airport, and six months out of the year, someone stays out there in a trailer, just to shoot things at birds - whistles, bangers, propane cannons. 
"We don't use lasers," Norman Hegedus told me. He is the boss at the Opa-locka Executive Airport, seven miles north of the Miami airport. He was also a planner in the Aircraft Noise and Environmental Planning Office of the Miami-Dade Aviation Department, and the manager of noise abatement and wildlife for area airports. "We found that the more variety you have in your arsenal the better. Birds become accustomed to sounds, to different techniques. We found out that lasers aren't very good. Some airports may use birds of prey sounds - I don't find those to be very effective at all. I found that driving out there and just targeting the birds, shooting the pyrotechnics, and don't let them sit and stay, is the best method of mitigating." Also, he said, they keep the grass around the airport under 11 inches tall, so that the birds feel exposed and don't stay long.
When a bird strike occurs - and all told, the airport had 52 in the last year, with only 14 of those in the actual airspace over the airport - the pilots check their altitude and position. Later the airport's people can go out and see if there is something attracting birds to the area - a Dumpster, a crazy lady with a loaf of bread. They can fine people caught feeding birds around the airport, starting at $250, ending at 30 days in prison.
Florida is also the United States leader in reptile strikes, which is to say, it wins with not very many. (There were only 120 reptile strikes reported from 1990 to 2010 in the country, and New York came in second place: last summer, a J.F.K. runway was closed for a procession of a hundred turtles.) Florida did though have 14 of the country's 15 reported alligator strikes. "I don't remember the last time," Mr. Hegedus said. "I do remember maybe 12 years ago, but it was a small alligator, if I recall correctly, that was at Tamiami Airport."
"For a period of time we had a jackrabbit concern," said Marc Henderson, of the public affairs office of the Miami-Dade Aviation Department. "Apparently they used to be utilized to train the dogs at the racetrack. Obviously some of them got out and duplicated, and by the time we started building the fourth runway, the vehicles on the service road inside the airport, they'd kill a rabbit, then they'd have a turkey buzzard."
He told me the airport eventually caught them and shipped them to a farm in Texas, which felt a little like your parents telling you about what supposedly happened when your dog died.
One of the airport's biggest problems, though, is the stray cats. "We don't have an infestation," Mr. Henderson said. But "the cats, they don't secure the cages, the belly of the plane gets opened, poof, there goes the cat. The cats end up in our terminal area, down below, where the baggage room is." Then they trap them and neuter them, and some of the airport employees try to find people to volunteer to adopt them. 
In fact Mr. Hegedus lives with two cats himself, rescued from the airport. 
That made me like Mr. Hegedus quite a lot. After our first year here, our magnificent aged cat died, and so my husband and I began to feed, water and trap (for vet visits and neutering) two colonies of feral strays living on opposite rocky banks of the bridge to Key Biscayne. But there were always new abandoned pets and new kittens. Cat babies having cat babies! That got depressing fast. Now I, too, live with two rescued cats. They're almost as good as human friends. They seem, sometimes, vain and entitled and imperious, and at other times, quite openly grateful and appreciative for being offered a home here, in a town where it's so easy to go missing, to get run over, to be left out. 
And if they ever want to leave Miami for New York, American Airlines allows up to seven animals in the cabin of each plane, two in first class and five in coach, not even including service animals, although only one carry-on animal per person, please contact reservations in advance, and be warned that the airline's regulations, like everyone's, are always subject to change.
Choire Sicha is a co-editor of the Web site The Awl. 

        
The Dogs (and Bears, and Camels) of War
        
We Were Kittens Once, and Young
        
To the Left, to the Left. No, to the Right.
        
Cat People Are People, Too
        
Don't Move! If You Know What's Good for You

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (78%); BOOKSTORES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); AIRLINES (60%) airlines and airports; Cats; Miami; moving; Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Birds; Moving and Moving Industry; Reptiles; Townies

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



36 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Now the Plutocrat Takes on Capitalism

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: Since we last checked in on the investor and one-time magazine subject Jeremy Grantham, his quarterly letter has appeared, and this time it isn't simply the American political-financial complex in his sights, but Capitalism itself. 

 BODY:
When we last checked in on the investor and one-time magazine subject Jeremy Grantham a few weeks ago, he had just published an op-ed in The Financial Times declaring the United States a plutocracy. (Recall, his firm manages around $100 billion in assets.) Since then, his quarterly letter has appeared, and this time it isn't simply the American political-financial complex in his sights, but capitalism itself. (Recall again the man's authority: $100 billion.)
He's not particularly worried about the familiar bogeys zombie-staggering around the economy of late and making a mess of current affairs. Excessive debt/leverage, distorted incentives, negligent boards of directors, income inequality, stuff like that. These things are all "basically business as usual," he says. "They are irritating and debilitating problems today, but they will not bring us to our knees."
What he frets will kneecap us, however, can be gleaned through some selective, representative quotation, which follows. (It's extensive quotation, too. Sorry about that, but one wants to do justice to letters of this sort.)
Damage to the "commons," known as "externalities," has been discussed for decades, although the most threatening one - loss of our collective ability to feed ourselves, through erosion and fertilizer depletion - has received little or no attention. There have been no useful tricks proposed, however, for how we will collectively impose sensible, survivable, long-term policies over problems of the "commons." To leave it to capitalism to get us out of this fix by maximizing its short-term profits is dangerously nave and misses the point: capitalism and corporations have absolutely no mechanism for dealing with these problems.
* * *To move from the problem of long-time horizons to the short-term common good, it is quickly apparent that capitalism in general has no sense of ethics or conscience. . . . Ethical CEOs can drag a company along for a while, but this is an undependable and temporary fix. Ethical humans can also impose their will on corporations singly or en masse by withholding purchases or bestowing them, and companies can anticipate this and even influence it through clever brand advertising, "clean coal" being my favorite. But that is quite different from corporate altruism. Thus, we can roast our planet and firms may offer marvelous and profitable energy-saving equipment, but it will be for profit today, not planet saving tomorrow.
* * *It gets worse, for what capitalism has always had is money with which to try to buy influence. . . . . So, rich industries can exert so much political influence that they now have a dangerous degree of influence over Congress. And the issues they most influence are precisely the ones that matter most, the ones that are most important to society's long-term well-being, indeed its very existence. Thus, taking huge benefits from Nature and damaging it in return is completely free and all attempts at government control are fought with costly lobbying and advertising.
* * *Of all the technical weaknesses in capitalism, though, probably the most immediately dangerous is its absolute inability to process the finiteness of resources and the mathematical impossibility of maintaining rapid growth in physical output. You can have steady increases in the quality of goods and services and, I hope, the quality of life, but you can't have sustainable growth in physical output. You can have "growth" - for now - or you can have "sustainable" forever, but not both. This is a message brought to you by the laws of compound interest and the laws of nature. However, you can try to have both. But many, when given the choice, select "Growth, and to hell with the consequences." Alternatively they adopt a hear-no-evil approach to life and listen exclusively to good news. The good news for such people is that there are always a few experts lacking in long-horizon vision, simple common sense, or whose co-operation has been rented, like "expert" witnesses at a murder trial, who can be dragged out to reliably say that everything will always work out fine.
* * *You don't have to be a Ph.D. mathematician to work out that if the average Chinese and Indian were to catch up with (the theoretically moving target of) the average American, then our planet's goose is cooked, along with most other things. Indeed, scientists calculate that if they caught up, we would need at least three planets to be fully sustainable. But few listen to scientists these days. So, do you know how many economic theories treat resources as if they are finite? Well, the researchers at the O.E.C.D say "none" - that no such theory exists. Economic theory either ignores this little problem or assumes you reach out and take the needed resources given the normal workings of supply and demand and you can do it indefinitely. This is a lack of common sense on a par with "rational expectations," that elegant theory that encouraged the ludicrous faith in deregulation and the wisdom of free markets, which brought us our recent financial fiascos. But this failure in economic theory - ignoring natural limits - risks far more dangerous outcomes than temporary financial crashes.
To sum up, Grantham's belief is "that capitalism does admittedly do a thousand things better than other systems: it only currently fails in two or three. Unfortunately for us all, even a single one of these failings may bring capitalism down and us with it."
That isn't to say there are no ways to meliorate our fate. One step might be "better balance with regulations." Grantham doubts this will happen, of course (see the "buy influence" passage above). Another step might be science education, but he's not exactly sanguine on that score either:
It would certainly help if the general public were better educated, especially in science. The same applies, unfortunately, to Congress itself. This body is desperately short of scientists and basic familiarity with things scientific. Our key problems need to be addressed by people very familiar and comfortable with science. It is said that eight of the nine senior leaders in China's government are scientists. At that high a level, of our 535 congressmen and the president and vice president, less than a handful - arguably only two or three - would pass the test. . . . It is said, on the other hand, that about 100 congressmen do not believe in evolution. Without a respect for science in Congress, and with science in the general public declining as an interest, some of the painful new issues are going to be hard to address. (The percentage of students graduating with degrees in science as a proportion of total U.S. graduates is the 60th highest by country these days!) This lack of scientific familiarity is made worse by the fact that everyone loves to hear good news, Americans more than most.
If all this strikes you as kind of grim - dismal science, indeed - console yourself with this thought: at least there's money to be made before things go to hell! Grantham's pretty psyched about the investment potential of various natural assets like farmland and natural gas, for example. ("There have been several recent decades in which the B.T.U. equivalent price for natural gas did, at least for a second, reach parity with oil. But now it is at just 14 percent of B.T.U. equivalency, the lowest in almost 50 years. Everyone who has a brain should be thinking of how to make money on this in the longer term.")
So don't go dismissing Grantham as a mere nattering nabob of negativism. Do so, and you'll just get him worked up and counterpunching like this (for my money, the best moment in his newsletter):
Our recent 10-year forecast is also ammunition to use against the "notorious bear" label that a journalist gave me recently. Dude, give me a break! The U.S. market was terrible for the last 10 years, gaining a pathetic 0.5 percent per year over all, after inflation adjustments and even including dividends. Without dividends, the index itself has not gone up a penny in real terms from mid-1997 to end-2011, or 141/2 years. This is getting to be a long time! Are we expected to be bullish out of patriotism? You might think so given the flood of optimistic views for the last 10 years (or is it 100?). The industry so much prefers bullishness. It is much, much better for business. So, in general, does the press, and I do sympathize - optimism really does make for more compelling reading. I'll tell you what. Try taking it out on the army of well-known bulls who blew the trumpets in 1999 and 2007 and waved everyone into the rather bloody breach. (Did you know that trumpeters were killed out of hand in the Middle Ages because of their pernicious role? How about that for a precedent when we get to the next burst bubble?)
(Actually, on second thought, let the buoyant bulls toot their horns if it's going to yield more investment commentary like this.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (69%); BRANDING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Grantham, Jeremy; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Grantham, Jeremy

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (51%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



37 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Followed Around by Paid Traffic Tickets for Decades

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON and JEFFREY E. SINGER


HIGHLIGHT: A cabdriver no longer has to worry about summonses he got more than 30 years, or so he hopes. 

 BODY:
For 31 years, Stefan Graff has been haunted by Summons No. 1Q72724926S. Actually, it is that summons and two others that have shadowed Mr. Graff all these years.
Mr. Graff, 52, a lifelong (but currently unemployed) cabdriver, said he incurred the three tickets while driving a livery cab in Jamaica, Queens - on Dec. 2, 1980, according to the summonses.
A police officer issued him the summonses perhaps for - it has been so long, his memory is cloudy on this, and the system no longer has the details -- lacking proper registration, an inspection sticker and livery insurance.
Mr. Graff said he thought he had paid the fines resulting from the tickets, and yet he found himself on Wednesday afternoon standing in the pouring rain outside the Summons Part of Queens Criminal Court in Kew Gardens.
"They keep coming back from the archive to haunt me," he said, adding that the tickets had led to bench warrants for his arrest and most recently to a 36-hour stay in jail for what would have been a routine desk-appearance ticket for drinking a beer in public. 
 Mr. Graff, who lives in a public housing project on the Lower East Side and is divorced with no children, held a printout of a record of his 31-year-old tickets, which listed him as having pleaded guilty on Jan. 29, 1981.
But a problem with the tickets surfaced in 2003, and he went to a warrants division in Manhattan to clear it up, he said. There, detectives put him in handcuffs - "They said it was a formality," he said -- and took him in front of a judge who said the tickets were so old that the issuing officer had retired. The judge gave Mr. Graff a disposition affirming that the tickets were cleared up, which Mr. Graff carried around every day for several years. 
In 2009, he was arrested for carrying a pocket knife - "People in my neighborhood know I drive a cab and carry a lot of cash, and I've been mugged before," Mr. Graff said - and he received three years' probation and lost his hackney license, he said.
 Then three weeks ago, he said, he got a summons for violating the open liquor container law, for having a beer in a building vestibule on the Bowery. 
The officer who issued him that summons said that because there was an outstanding bench warrant stemming from the old traffic violations, he would have to be held in the Manhattan Detention Complex, known as the Tombs, and see a judge the next day.
"There was nowhere to sit," he said. "There were three big guys from Montenegro in there, and they said, 'We're tired, we want to lay down.' They threw the other guys off the bench to lay down."
On Wednesday, he stepped up to the clerk's window in Queens and handed his papers to a clerk who looked to be in his mid-50s. "I got these tickets in 1980," Mr. Graff told the clerk. 
The clerk was unfazed. He said, "I was working here then - I started in 1979." He punched in the ticket numbers, and sure enough, they came up on the computer.
The clerk said that motorists come in fairly regularly to deal with decades-old outstanding summonses.
"I have a cabinet full of these things," he said, pointing across the room. "If an individual doesn't handle a summons, they eventually catch up with them in Motor Vehicles."
Mr. Graff said, "I need to get them resolved so I don't get dragged through the system again."
He told the clerk, "I don't have any money; I'm on public assistance."
 The clerk waived the fees and gave Mr. Graff a disposition affirming that the tickets had been cleared.
"I have to walk around with this indefinitely," Mr. Graff said, holding the document. "I have to get one of those pouches you wear on your waist."
As he walked outside, he said he remained skeptical.
"Tell you the truth, I still don't believe they're really off the books," he said.

        
Caught Between Sidewalk and Street
        
Police to Apply Special Roaming Charge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); PROBATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); PARKING OFFENSES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (51%) traffic tickets; Traffic and Parking Violations; Courts and Law; Offbeat

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



38 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Screen at Cuomo's Online Chat

BYLINE: DANNY HAKIM


HIGHLIGHT: Inquiries about hydrofracking and health benefits for laid-off workers were among the hundreds of questions that Governor Cuomo didn't answer in his first online chat. 

 BODY:
9:25 p.m. | Updated 
ALBANY- One resident wanted the governor's opinion on the state of kayakingregulation. Another wanted to chat about train service in Stony Brook. A Monty Python fan even asked the governor, "What is the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?"
Hundreds of New Yorkers posed prodding, pointed and even pointless questions to Andrew M. Cuomowhen the governor, responding to concerns about transparency in his administration, sat down one Saturday morning in September to field inquiries online. The governor and an adviser chose just a handful to answer - he fielded 16 largely innocuous questions - but the unanswered questions, released Thursday in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, provide an unusual glimpse behind the curtain of the Web chat, demonstrating how an elected official can smooth the occasionally rough and random edges of public discourse.
The unanswered questions ranged from quirky to angry and featured multiple inquiries about two subjects the governor largely chose to avoid - hydraulic fracturing and health benefits for laid-off racetrack workers.
A number of pointed questions were left on the table. John from Seneca County asked the governor whether he supported Attorney GeneralEric T. Schneiderman's investigation of Wall Streetbanks, a topic Mr. Cuomo has not taken a stance on. A questioner asked the governor what he thought about theOccupy Wall Streetmovement - another sensitive topic. Mr. Cuomo didn't choose that question either.
He didn't engage with Cindy from Glens Falls, who was upset about wage and benefit concessions exacted from state workers represented by the Civil Service Employees Association, a labor union. "My question to the governor is how can he live with himself after negotiating the CSEA contract," Cindy wrote. "Why do you think you should balance the budget off our backs."
Nor did he rise to the bait when Don fromSyracusetook a shot at his pro-casino politics. "How can I start a casino?" he asked. "Who is to stop Trump or Fox or whoever from turning NY State into Vegas? This is a form of corporate greed."
The governor's September chat session was the first in a series of discussions with members of his administration and other officials hosted at CitizenConnects, a Web site that the Cuomo administration set up after receiving criticism for lapses in transparency.
The governor told participants in the chat that he and his spokesman, Josh Vlasto, were choosing questions while sitting at Mr. Cuomo's kitchen table, selecting "ones that are informative, but not hypertechnical or redundant."
Among the questions the governor did choose to answer, there were a few substantive topics, such as energy and the economy, but also questions like "What's it like living in the mansion?" and "What do you enjoy most about being Governor?"
Asked about the questions unanswered, Mr. Vlasto said, "The governor answered as many questions as possible."
The governor's chat in-box was overwhelmed by opponents of the state's tentative plan to allow hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking, a controversial method of drilling for natural gas. The governor acknowledged, in a single posted response on the issue, that "there are many many questions coming in on hydrofracking," but he deferred on the topic to the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, Joe Martens, who had his own subsequent chat session.
That did not satisfy some of his correspondents.
"How is it 'your forum' if we overwhelmingly want to discuss hydrofracking and you refuse to?" wrote Krys from theFinger Lakes.
And Dorothy from Middlefield said, "I am so concerned about your 20th Century mentality regarding the use of fossil fuels."
The governor did not acknowledge the many angry retirees and laid-off workers from theNew York CityOff-Track Betting Corporation, which was closed in 2010. They wrote to complain about his veto of a bill that would have restored their health benefits.
"You have taken awayhealth insuranceplans not only from my family, but from all of the people who have spent their lives working for OTB," the commenter Shannon wrote. Danny fromQueenswrote that his father, "a 65-year-old leukemia patient" and former OTB worker, was among those who "will suffer greatly from this injustice."
Mr. Cuomo is a popular governor, in a state with a history of corruption, and a number of those who wrote in thanked the governor simply for being competent, like Giovanni from theBronx, who said simply, "You're the Best!" Aliza from Queens said, "Doing great job, keep it up," and Brianne fromMillertonsaid, "THANKS SO MUCH!!!"
Others were less charitable. Stephen from Rome called the governor "a dictator and bully." And after the governor fielded a question about his lapel pin, which he designed to include the words "Performance, Integrity, Pride," an anonymous commenter wrote in: "lapel pin Give me a break ????"

        
Cuomo Bets Heapings of Fermented Milk on the Giants
        
Charter School Releases an Ad Supporting Cuomo
        
Cuomo Stays Quiet on Christie's Plan to Put Gay Marriage on Ballot
        
Christie Takes Mild Swipe at Cuomo on Tax Plan
        
Improving the City With Vigilance for All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (87%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); POLITICS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); BUDGETS (62%) Andrew M. Cuomo; Cuomo, Andrew M; Politics and Government; Government & Politics

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



39 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant to Pay Workers in Wage-Theft Case

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: A West Village lounge will be forced to pay a steep fine for underpaying many of its employees and for retaliating against two workers who complained about the lounge's behavior. 

 BODY:
A West Village hookah lounge and restaurant has agreed to pay $200,000 in back wages and penalties for underpaying about 25 employees, many of them immigrants, and firing two workers who reported the violations to the authorities, the New York attorney general announced in a statement on Thursday.
The employees benefited in part from a wage-theft law that took effect last April. The law quadrupled the penalties for employers who underpay their workers and added new protections for whistle-blowers. The law, called the Wage Theft Prevention Act, passed after months of lobbying by labor unions and immigrants' advocates. 
Wage theft is particularly rampant in industries where many illegal immigrants work, including the restaurant, retail and construction sectors. The new law added remedies for workers who have experienced retaliation, including damages of up to $10,000 per instance of retaliation. 
"By scaring employees into silence, employer retaliation undermines basic labor law protections," Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman said in announcing the settlement. "My office will aggressively pursue employers who fire workers for standing up for their rights -- especially during tough economic times, when so many workers are already afraid of losing their jobs."
Under the settlement, the lounge, Veranda, will pay $150,000 in restitution to employees who were paid below minimum wage and did not receive earned overtime pay, the statement said. State law mandates a minimum wage of $7.25 per hour and overtime compensation equivalent to 1\xC2 times the regular pay rate for each hour an employee works beyond 40 hours in a week. 
In addition, Veranda will pay $50,000 in restitution for lost wages, damages and penalties for wrongfully terminating the two workers who complained about the pay practices to Make the Road New York, an advocacy group that works with immigrant populations in New York. 
Moutaz Ali, owner of Veranda, conceded in an interview late Thursday that he had not been "100 percent in compliance with the labor laws." He said he had wanted to fight some of the charges but decided to settle because he did not have the paperwork to prove his arguments. 
"It's really sad that we're being framed as a greedy monster that goes around stealing people's hard work and people's money," said Mr. Ali, an Egyptian immigrant. "We're trying to make ends meet and make a living like everybody else."
The state investigation revealed that the company failed to pay many employees minimum wage and overtime, and that tips intended for the workers were illegally distributed to the manager. It also showed that Veranda fired two employees, Marco Jacal and Isidro Suarez, both Mexican immigrants, shortly after they complained to Make the Road, officials said.
Mr. Jacal and Mr. Suarez filed complaints on the same day that the Wage Theft Prevention Act took effect, said Deborah Axt, deputy director of Make the Road.
"They were exercising their rights and it became Make the Road's test case for the brand-new anti-retaliation provisions of the Wage Theft Prevention Act," she said. The group referred the case to the attorney general's office for investigation. 
The settlement bars Veranda from retaliating against employees who cooperated with the investigation or employees who will be receiving unpaid wages under the settlement, Mr. Schneiderman's office said. 
Investigators will continue to monitor Veranda's employment practices for the next two years, the statement said.
"The problem of wage theft will not be resolved until employees can freely demand their hard-earned pay," Ms. Axt said. 

        
Car Wash to Pay Workers $1.7 Million in Owed Wages
        
A Move to Protect Low-Wage Workers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); LARCENY & THEFT (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BACK PAY (90%); OVERTIME (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (77%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (76%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%) wage theft; Schneiderman, Eric T; Fines (Penalties); Labor and Jobs; Minimum Wage; Overtime; Wages and Salaries; Make the Road New York; Courts and Law; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Make the Road New York

PERSON: Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



40 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Links For the 1st of March

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Your links for the first day of March. 

 BODY:
Monsanto: First the good news: France has called for a ban on Monsanto GMO corn. Now the bad: A federal judge in New York has dismissed a lawsuit, filed by more than 80 farmers and agricultural organizations against Monsanto, which sought to protect organic farmers from litigation if their crops became contaminated by Monsanto's GMO seeds. From 1997 to 2010, Monsanto sued 144 farmers for patent infringement, a number that the judge said "is hardly significant when compared to the number of farms in the United States" (just try telling that to the 144 farmers).
Also, the F.D.A. has decided to add warnings to the labels of some popular cholesterol-lowering drugs (like Lipitor) to indicate that they may cause higher levels of blood sugar and memory loss. Couldn't have been more than five years ago my G.P. was assuring me they were benign.
Antibiotics in livestock feed DO give rise to antibiotic-resistant germs that can threaten humans: a team from the Translational Genomics Research Institute in Flagstaff has found that MRSA originated as a human strain that jumped to pigs, where it acquired resistance as a result of drug farm exposure before jumping back to humans. And antibiotics are not just for livestock: shrimp farms in South Asia are essentially factory farms, with all that implies - including the overuse of antibiotics.
Missouri Farm Bureau President Blake Hurst has a full-throated defense of factory farming that includes a strong endorsement of pig gestation crates. Can we say "defensive"?
The Iowa senate has approved an "Ag Gag" bill that seeks to prosecute "agricultural production facility fraud" (obtaining access to a facility under false pretense with the intent to commit an act not authorized by the owner, like video taping animal abuse.) Disgraceful.
Fish: A new partnership to raise $1.5 billion for the world's oceans, double marine protected areas and rebuild fish stocks was launched by the World Bank. And Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall's fish discard ban has been shunned by British MPs, who argue that British fishermen should be allowed to continue discarding edible fish at sea until at least 2020.
Food System Reform: Eric Schlosser and Will Allen make the case for a different kind of food system, while last week a Times Room For Debate feature focused on what changes need to be made to the 2012 farm bill. Assemblyman Mike Gatto introduced a cottage food bill in the California State Assembly, bringing California one step closer to joining a growing number of other states with similar laws. The California Homemade Food Act would allow small food businesses operating out of a private home that produce "nonpotentially hazardous goods" (so called "cottage food operations") to comply with fewer regulations.
Health: The Obama administration is working on setting nutritional standards for foods that children can buy outside the cafeteria, including in school vending machines. Meanwhile, a 10-year epidemiological study has found a link between diet soft drinks and cardiovascular disease.
Some words of wisdom from Marion Nestle: "If I could teach just one thing about nutrition, it would be this: Larger portions have more calories."
Finally, for your viewing pleasure: Check out these stunning microscopic images of fruits and vegetables.

        
What We're Reading Now
        
Links for January's End
        
Links for the New Year
        
Corporate Rule Is Not Inevitable
        
The Last of Last Year's Food Links

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (92%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); JUDGES (90%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (88%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MAMMALS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); ANIMALS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); ANIMAL WELFARE (72%); MARINE BIOLOGY (72%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (72%); GENOMICS (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); SHELLFISH FARMING (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); FISHES (67%); AQUACULTURE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PATENTS (56%); CHOLESTEROL (55%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (54%); OCEANS (50%) Ag Gag; Blake Hurst; Eric Schlosser; Food and Drug Administration; GMOs; links; Lipitor; Mike Gatto; Monsanto; MRSA; Room For Debate; Translational Genomics Research Institute; Will Allen; Fearnley-Whittingstall, Hugh; Nestle, Marion; Schlosser, Eric; Agriculture and Farming; Antibiotics; Monsanto Company; France; Monsanto Company|MON|NYSE

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (91%); MISSOURI FARM BUREAU (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Food and Drug Administration; Monsanto Company

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (91%) Monsanto Company; MON; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%) Fearnley-Whittingstall, Hugh; Nestle, Marion; Schlosser, Eric

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (54%) France

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



41 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Monster Worldwide Puts Itself in Play

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The chief executive of the online jobs listing company says that the board and management are pursuing "strategic alternatives to increasing shareholder value." 

 BODY:
Shares of Monster Worldwide surged on Thursday after the company's chief executive said that the board and management were pursuing "strategic alternatives to increasing shareholder value."
Such language is Wall Street code for considering a sale of the company. The online jobs listing company has a market value of $969 million, but its shares have fallen by half in the last 12 months. 
"Our shareholders deserve a better return," the company's chief executive, Sal Iannuzzi, told the Robert W. Baird Business Solutions Conference in Boston on Thursday. The board and management, he said, need to "ensure that we extract the maximum amount of shareholder value in any way we can." He did not say specifically whether a sale was among the things being weighed.
Still, investors appeared to see it that way, sending shares of the company up 17 percent, to $8.09, in trading on Thursday afternoon. 
Monster Worldwide has more than $250 million of cash on its book, and $188.8 million in debt. 
Two years ago, Monster Worldwide was an acquirer, buying rival HotJobsfrom Yahoo for $225 million. 
The company said last month that it would about 400 jobs, or 7 percent of its work force, citing "continuing global economic uncertainties."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BONDS (77%) Stocks and Bonds; Monster Worldwide Inc; Monster Worldwide Inc|MWW|NYSE; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Monster Worldwide Inc

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (94%) Monster Worldwide Inc; MWW; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



42 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Many Americans Struggle to Save for Emergencies

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Many Americans are struggling to set aside savings for emergencies and other goals. 

 BODY:
Many Americans appear to be struggling to save for emergencies and other needs, two recent surveys reveal.
Over the last three years, the number of people who spend less than they make and save the difference, and who say they have adequate emergency savings, has declined, according to an annual survey from the savings-focused arms of the Consumer Federation of America and the Employee Benefits Research Council. 
Roughly two-thirds of Americans say they have adequate emergency savings, down from 71 percent in 2010, the survey found. Two-thirds of those surveyed also said they spend less than they make and save the difference, down from nearly 75 percent two years ago.
The organizations commissioned Opinion Research Corporation to conduct the telephone poll of 1,007 adults in early February. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points.
The survey also showed that regardless of income, Americans who have a savings plan with a specific goal are more likely to save for emergencies and other needs. 
Meanwhile, a quarter of American adults have more credit card debt than emergency savings, a poll from Bankrate.com found. 
Households with income of $75,000 or more a year, college graduates and retirees are the most likely to have more in emergency savings than credit card debt, the survey found. 
Parents, meanwhile, are the most likely to have more credit card debt than emergency savings.
The telephone poll, conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International in early February, included 1,006 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Do you have a specific savings plan, and has it helped your savings account balance top your credit card debt?

        
Those Incredible Shrinking Savings Account Rates
        
Cutting Back (But Not on Coffee!) To Save Money
        
How to Save a Third of Your Income
        
Financial Tuneup: The Case for Saving a Little Bit More
        
One Saving Strategy: Bank One Salary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (70%) Budgeting; Savings Accounts; Consumer Behavior; Savings; Bankrate Inc; Consumer Federation of America

COMPANY: OPINION RESEARCH CORP (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bankrate Inc; Consumer Federation of America

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (70%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



43 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and Fiscal Responsibility

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: For more than 30 years, Republicans have misrepresented to the public how tax cuts contributed to the soaring deficit, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The United States has a great deal of public debt outstanding - and a future trajectory that is sobering (see this recent presentation by Doug Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office). Yet the four remaining contenders for the Republican nomination are competing for primary votes, in part, with proposals that would - under realistic assumptions - worsen the budget deficit and further increase the dangers associated with excessive federal government debt.
Politicians of all stripes and in almost all countries claim to be "fiscally responsible." You always need to strip away the rhetoric and look at exactly what they are proposing.
The nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget does this for the Republican presidential contenders. I recommend making the comparison using what the committee calls its "high debt" method. This is the toughest and most realistic of its projections - again, a good and fair rule of thumb to use for assessing politicians everywhere.

Under this situation, Newt Gingrich's proposals would increase net federal government debt held by the private sector to close to 130 percent of gross domestic product by 2021, from around 75 percent of G.D.P. this year.
This would put us close to Greek levels (before that country's recently proposed debt restructuring). Comparing debt levels across countries needs to be done carefully; I use the most recent available comparative numbers from the International Monetary Fund (see Statistical Tables 7 and 8). Or you can read the full report.
In contrast, Mitt Romney's and Ron Paul's fiscal plans would elevate our debt levels merely to Italian levels (around 95 to 100 percent of G.D.P.), while Rick Santorum would prefer to end up more like Japan (above Italy but below Greece).
The Republican Party has not always been this way. In fact, for most of its existence, the party truly did stand for fiscal responsibility, with its leadership routinely placing a high priority on balancing the budget.
For nearly two centuries, there was a consensus across the political spectrum in the United States that campaigning on a platform of deliberately increasing the national debt was definitely not the thing to do, at least if you wanted to win an election at any level of government.
For example, toward the end of his second administration, President Dwight Eisenhower was pressed from some quarters to cut taxes to help the election chances of Richard Nixon, his vice president. Mr. Eisenhower demurred, preferring to pass on a more nearly balanced budget to whomever his successor would prove to be.
Mr. Nixon himself was perhaps the last of the truly fiscally conservative Republicans. It was not that Republicans of that era liked taxes - who does, after all? But the idea that you could sell the electorate on the notion that a responsible politician could assert that plans to cut taxes would "pay for themselves" - and therefore not reduce revenue or increase the budget deficit - had not gained traction.
And the slogan that "deficits don't matter" also seemed too much of a stretch, even in the troubled 1970s. The budget and its deficit did not get out of control under Mr. Nixon or Gerald Ford.
It wasn't one single Republican who changed the tone of the conventional wisdom on the right. There were several, including Jack Kemp and Ronald Reagan. But one name stands out as a thread that runs throughout the tax revolt that has taken place within the Republican Party - Newt Gingrich.
From his initial election to Congress in 1978, Mr. Gingrich saw how to win votes by cutting taxes and dealing with the consequences later, or not at all. He was a strong voice against the tax increases put forward in the later Reagan years, after the initial tax cuts, and under George H.W. Bush. Mr. Gingrich left Congress in 1999, but the antitax movement he helped lead prepared the way for a big surge in budget deficits and national debt under George W. Bush.
To understand more about how deficits got out of control with tax cuts and spending increases during the early 2000s, read more by my Economix colleague, Bruce Bartlett, who called this as it was happening. You might start with this retrospective piece.
Claiming to be a fiscal conservative while proposing policies that will greatly increase the deficit is perhaps the most consistent hallmark of Mr. Gingrich's politics over more than 30 years.
In some sense, Mr. Gingrich has already captured the Republican Party: the Republican candidates are competing to see who can make the most fiscally irresponsible proposals and get away with it. Whoever becomes the Republican presidential nominee will be standing on the shoulders of Mr. Gingrich.

        
Tilting the Budget Process to the G.O.P.
        
Is a Balanced Budget Amendment a Good Idea?
        
Are the Bush Tax Cuts the Root of Our Fiscal Problem?
        
Will the United States Default?
        
Republican Split, Democratic Opportunity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); STATISTICS (66%) balanced-budget amendment; budget deficit; Bush tax cuts; Daily Economist; deficit reduction; Dwight D. Eisenhower; George H.W. Bush; George W. Bush; Newt Gingrich; politics; Richard Nixon; Ronald Reagan; Simon Johnson; tax cuts; Gingrich, Newt; Taxation; Republican Party; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%) Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (77%); RON PAUL (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



44 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Comebacks

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Borrowing a page from President Ronald Reagan's re-election playbook, President Obama is in the hope of convincing voters that the nation has made a turnaround with him leading the way, Helene Cooper writes. But she points out that the strategy could backfire if the economy turns sour or foreign crises worsen, and Republicans are at the ready to harp on his misfortunes.
        
With voters in 10 states about to choose their candidate next week on Super Tuesday, Ohio stands out as what may be Rick Santorum's best hope yet to stage a rebound, Richard A. Oppel Jr. writes. The Christian conservatives and white working-class voters who make up a significant part of Ohio's electorate mirror his base in Pennsylvania. But his nearest rival, Mitt Romney, isn't letting Mr. Santorum have it easy and is spending plenty of time and money to compete in the state.
        
The Republican presidential candidates are playing up small differences to try to differentiate themselves from one another and appeal to conservatives. John Harwood writes that the phenomenon is the product of ideological purgings in the Democratic and Republican Parties, and one that Republicans, in particular, say could be dangerous in the general election.
        
Senator Olympia J. Snowe's decision to leave Congress after more than three decades representing Maine highlights the unease among moderate lawmakers about the political climate in Washington and a widening gap between Republicans and Democrats that centrist lawmakers like Ms. Snowe, a Republican, once bridged, Jonathan Weisman writes.
        
Despite signs that the economy is strengthening, the Federal Reserve Bank is not raising its expectations for modest economic growth this year. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the central bank, says the Fed will maintain its cautious outlook for the year and continue its existing stimulus programs, Binyamin Appelbaum reports.
Around the Web:
President Obama is shrugging off critics like Mr. Santorum who say he shouldn't have apologized to Afghanistan after American personnel burned Korans there. In an interview with ABC News, he said the apology had helped "calm things down," but said there was more work to be done.
Mr. Romney is looking for more money to fuel his campaign as the prolonged nominating contest heads to Super Tuesday, according to The Washington Post.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data scheduled for release at 8:30 a.m. include personal income and spending for January and weekly jobless claims. Those will be followed at 10 by construction spending for January, weekly mortgage rates and the manufacturing index for February.
Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, will discuss his recent report to Congress with members of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee at 10 a.m.
The American ambassador to Syria and other State Department officials will discuss the crisis in Syria with members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee at 10 a.m.
In morning hearings on departmental budget requests, highlights include Steven Chu, the energy secretary, testifying before the House Science, Space and Technology Committee; Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, facing the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health; and Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, meeting with the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development.

        
The Early Word: Unsettled
        
The Early Word: Obstacle Course
        
The Early Word: Opt Out
        
The Weekend Word: Returning the Favor
        
The Early Word: Under Investigation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



45 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Is Bipartisanship Back? Don't Count on It.

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: A rare closed-door meeting between the president and Congressional leaders came just one day after Senator Olympia Snowe announced she was retiring because of partisanship in Washington. 

 BODY:
Has bipartisanship suddenly arrived in Washington?
Not likely.
After months of frosty relations between the White House and Republicans on Capitol Hill, President Obama invited the four leaders of the House and Senate for a closed-door luncheon on Wednesday that members of both parties hailed as a step in the right direction.
It was the first time in months that Mr. Obama has held such a meeting. And it came as politicians in Washington were bracing for a difficult and bitter election year during which the nation's most vexing economic challenges are likely to be punted until after voting on November 6.
In that context, the meeting was declared to be a healthy step. In an afternoon news conference, House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, called it a "positive lunch and a very fruitful conversation." Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, expressed hope that the meeting would lead to progress on stalled legislation.
And at the White House, Jay Carney, Mr. Obama's spokesman, said "there is reason to hope" that predictions of a Congress bogged down in partisanship and sniping this year would not come to pass. The meeting also included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader in the House; and Harry Reid, the majority leader in the Senate.
"They discussed a variety of topics, a range of topics both domestic and foreign. And they discussed ways that they could build on the bipartisan cooperation that led to the extension of the payroll tax cut as well as unemployment insurance," Mr. Carney said.
And yet, both sides acknowledged afterward that little of substance had changed in terms of the disagreements on issues like energy, jobs and the economy. Despite the imagery, neither side emerged with any announcements to make on long-stalled legislation or difficult philosophical stalemates.
And the highly stage-managed luncheon came just a day after a much more pessimistic assessment of Washington was delivered.
Olympia Snowe, a long-time Republican senator from Maine, announced on Tuesday that she would not seek re-election this year, bringing a surprise close to a a 33-year Congressional career.
Ms. Snowe's tenure in Washington had been one of compromise and cooperation -- even if those traits sometimes infuriated some in her own party. A moderate Republican, she has often sided with Democrats to help resolve the stickiest legislative gridlocks.
But in announcing her departure, Ms. Snowe explicitly blamed a changing culture in Washington that she said had made those kinds of political accommodations all but impossible.
"I do find it frustrating," she wrote in a statement, "that an atmosphere of polarization and 'my way or the highway' ideologies has become pervasive in campaigns and in our governing institutions."
Ms. Snowe said that she would have been "well prepared" for the electoral battle ahead if she had decided to run for a fourth term. But she cast doubt on the chances that a new bipartisan spirit would emerge during the next six years.
"I do not realistically expect the partisanship of recent years in the Senate to change over the short term," she wrote. "As I enter a new chapter, I see a vital need for the political center in order for our democracy to flourish and to find solutions that unite rather than divide us. It is time for change in the way we govern."
Ms. Snowe's decision stunned Washington, in part because of the new difficulty that Republicans now face in recapturing control of the Senate this year. (The party had expected Ms. Snowe to easily win re-election; her seat is now up for grabs.)
But her reason for quitting was also a stark reminder of how much had changed in Washington in the years since she and other centrist politicians regularly managed to shape public policy.
Many of those lawmakers have left in recent years, especially from the Senate. Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, a conservative Democrat, announced this year that he would not seek re-election. Former Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana left in 2011 after expressing similar frustration.
"We're working in a parallel universe with competing proposals," Ms. Snowe said on MSNBC on Wednesday. She described current-day Washington as a place "where it's dysfunctional and political paralysis has overtaken the environment to the detriment to the good of the country."
Ms. Snowe's assessment contrasts sharply with the sunny-side-up commentary from the White House and the Congressional leadership Wednesday afternoon.
But the reality may be that -- in spite of their public pronouncements to the contrary -- Ms. Snowe's assessment more accurately reflects the sentiment of the six politicians who met together at the White House on Wednesday.
Voters in both parties have consistently said in overwhelming numbers that they wanted bipartisanship in Washington. The nation is often sharply divided on issues of philosophy and governance, but they nonetheless say they want their political leaders to go to Washington and find a way to resolve the differences.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll taken in January of this year, 85 percent of those surveyed said they would rather have Democrats and Republicans compromise some of their positions to get something done. Just 11 percent said they should stick to their positions even if it means getting less done.
And those numbers are not a fluke. How many people said they wanted compromise in September of last year? Eighty-five percent. What about a month earlier, in August of last year? The same -- 85 percent.
The surveys suggest that there are reasons why politicians might want to demonstrate bipartisanship even when the reality is gridlock.
If the spirit of bipartisanship has truly returned, then Mr. Obama and the lawmakers he met with on Wednesday should be able to find a way to work together this year on issues like the nation's debt, the payroll tax cut, spending cuts and the expiring Bush-era tax cuts.
But if Ms. Snowe is right, the lunch may lead to little more than window dressing.

        
Senate Approves Stopgap Budget
        
Congressional Week Ahead
        
Bachmann's Speech Will Push Tea Party Goals
        
Congressional Week Ahead
        
Times Readers' Top Political Moments of 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%) bipartisanship; House of Representatives; olympia snowe; president obama; Senate; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



46 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2496 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Officials Rule No Payout on Greek Swaps | The International Swaps and Derivatives Association said on Thursday that based on current evidence the Greek bailout would not prompt payments on the credit default swaps.
But the organization warned that the situation in Greece was "still evolving" and such payouts might be necessary in the future "as further facts come to light."
In the midst of the Greek drama, credit-default swaps, financial instruments intended to protect against losses on debt, have been a point of concern.
As part of a restructuring, bondholders will be required to take a 70 percent loss on their holdings. The deal was structured as a voluntary exchange, which would not have triggered the credit-default swaps.
But in recent weeks, Greece has prepared to require bondholders to accept the losses through legal means. The situation raised worries that parties would need to make good on the swaps. 
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Former Goldman Partner Now a Self-Fashioned Political Pundit | For many former Goldman Sachs partners, an active retirement means traveling the world, becoming a regular on the gala circuit and playing hundreds of holes of golf a week.
Peter D. Kiernan, who at Goldman helped lead billion-dollar deals involving AT&T, Lucent and other blue-chip companies, took a different tack. After retiring from the firm in 2001, the former banker headed a movie star's charity, got a shamrock tattooed on his rear end after losing a bet with his son, adopted a Vietnamese potbellied pig named Mojo and, most recently, published a political best seller with a title that is not quite printable in a family newspaper.
DealBook 
Hedge Fund Manager Announces Senate Run | Joseph Carvin, who helps run Altima Partners, said he would seek the Republican nomination for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand's seat, with plans to put $1 million into his campaign and raise more through donations, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Humble Suggestion for Your Next Casual Friday: PajamaJeans | Think casual Friday means Dockers and a polo shirt? Think again! PajamaJeans, a product that marries fashion and comfort, are the new hotness for dressed-down Wall Street workers, according to a P.R. firm.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
CVR Energy Urges Shareholders to Reject Icahn's Bid | On Thursday, the board of the oil refiner CVR Energy urged shareholders to reject Carl C. Icahn's $2.6 billion bid, calling the offer "inadequate."
DealBook 
Tata of India Weighing Bid for Cable and Wireless | Tata Communications of India said on Thursday that it might bid for Cable and Wireless Worldwide of Britain to complement its operations in developing countries.
DealBook 
Delaware Court Declines to Block Kinder Morgan's El Paso Corp. Deal | A Delaware state court judge declined on Wednesday to block the $21.1 billion takeover of the El Paso Corporation by Kinder Morgan, denying investor requests to restart a sale of the oil and natural gas pipeline company.
DealBook 
R.B.S. Said to Near Asian Deal | The Royal Bank of Scotland is preparing to announce a preliminary deal for the sale of Asian units to CIMB Group Holdings, of Malaysia, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
CIMB May Keep Most of R.B.S. Workers After Takeover | CIMB Group Holdings may keep about two-thirds of the 600 workers at the Royal Bank of Scotland's Asian units after a takeover, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the negotiations.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
G.M. and Peugeot Confirm Partnership | General Motors is taking a 7 percent stake in Peugeot Citroen, in an alliance that the car companies said would produce savings of about $2 billion within five years, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
HSBC Said to Near Sale of Insurance Business | The bank is in talks to sell its general insurance business for about $1 billion, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
Turkcell Said to Mull Bid for Vivacom | Turkcell, the largest Turkish mobile phone company, is considering a bid for Vivacom, of Bulgaria, that would value it at about $1.4 billion, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the process.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A.M.D. Buying SeaMicro for $334 Million | Advanced Micro Devices has agreed to buy SeaMicro, a hot Silicon Valley start-up, for $334 million, including $281 million in cash.
DealBook 
Infosys Hunts for European Acquisitions | Infosys, the Indian computer services company, which had a war chest of $4 billion as of Dec. 31, is looking at companies that own intellectual property and also at certain niche consulting firms, its chief financial officer said, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Argentina's YPF Falls on Rumors of Nationalization | Shares of YPF, the Argentinian energy giant, fell as much as 18 percent on Wednesday as traders speculated that the government might take it over, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Bank of America Considers New Fee | After retreating from a $5 debit card charge last year, the bank is now considering changes that could require some customers to pay a monthly fee on checking accounts, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
JPMorgan and Goldman Report Identical European Exposure | JPMorgan Chase said it purchased credit default swap contracts on $147.3 billion of the debt of five troubled European governments, and sold $142.4 billion of such contracts, Bloomberg News reports, noting that Goldman Sachs reported exact same figures a day earlier.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bonuses Dip on Wall St., but Far Less Than Earnings | While annual payouts to finance industry employees in New York are forecast to drop only 14 percent during the bonus season, profits plunged in 2011, falling 51 percent, according to a report by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.
DealBook  | Arrests as Occupy Wall Street Resumes 12:02 PM ET | Post a Comment
Chinese Firms Pursue Wall St. Talent | A recent lawsuit by Cantor Fitzgerald, which had accused three former employees of conspiring to hurt the firm by defecting to boutique bank backed by China, highlights a broader trend, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Credit Suisse Stock Trading Head Departs | Matthew DeSalvo, who ran the Swiss bank's stock sales and trading group in the United States, left the firm as his unit merged with electronic trading, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PineBridge to Replace C.E.O. | PineBridge Investments, the asset management firm that A.I.G. has used to invest its money, said it would replace Win Neuger, its chief executive, with David Jiang, a Bank of New York Mellon executive in Asia, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Big Treasury Trade Rattles Markets | An unusually large sale of more than 100,000 futures on U.S. government debt on Wednesday, coming after the release of Ben Bernanke's testimony, caused Treasury yields to rise and affected a range of markets, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Turnaround King Faces Questions About an Heir to the Throne | Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the 74-year-old turnaround specialist who controls $8 billion in assets at his private equity firm, has lately been battling concerns about his age, as he struggles to raise a new fund, The New York Times reports. His line of succession has been a looming question.
"My doubles team was in the finals recently at my tennis club in Palm Beach and lost a tiebreaker after a three-hour match," Mr. Ross told The Times. "I must confess, by the end of the three hours, I was relieved it was over," he added, chuckling.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sorting Through the Aftermath of Private Equity Deals | DealBook examines the myths surrounding the private equity industry by revisiting the aftermath of the top 10 leveraged buyout deals.
DealBook 
Private Equity's Punk Rock Spokesman | Bob Geldof, the musician and activist who once was the front man of the Boomtown Rats, is now the chairman of an Africa-focused private equity fund, Reuters reports. At the industry's conference in Berlin, Mr. Geldof gave an impassioned speech.
"I have learned that private equity, contrary to the Romney-esque debate in the United States at the moment, can be a major vehicle for positive change in this world," he said.
REUTERS
A Thin-Skinned Industry | "Finance is hardly the only industry to be painted with a broadly negative brush. Just ask your lawyer," writes Dan Primack of Fortune.
FORTUNE
Caveats in Upbeat Buyout Reports | The Wall Street Journal writes that three recent studies that suggest strength in the buyout industry come with some causes for concern. For example, there was a wide range in the performance of portfolio companies in a study by the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and Ernst & Young.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Managers Made $13 Billion in 2011 | The 40 highest earning hedge fund managers earned a combined $13.2 billion last year, according to a Forbes survey. Ray Dalio, who led Bridgewater Associates to returns in the 20 percent range, made about $3 billion.
FORBES
Man Group Strikes an Optimistic Tone | The Man Group said outflows slowed this year, and that assets under management rose to about $59.5 billion at the end of February, from $58.4 billion at the end of December, Reuters reports. 
REUTERS
LightSquared Said to Eye Former Nextel Head for C.E.O. | Philip A. Falcone's embattled start-up is considering hiring Timothy M. Donahue, the former head of Nextel, to be its chief executive, Reuters reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
Fairfax's Case Against Hedge Funds Shrinks | Seven of eight hedge funds that Fairfax Financial Holdings accused of spreading false rumors have won dismissal of the case, and an upcoming ruling on whether to throw out racketeering counts could make the case shrink further, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Japan Seeks to Prevent What Happened at AIJ | Japan's ruling party set up a panel to discuss stricter oversight measures for asset management firms, after a regulator suspended AIJ Investment Advisors, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Facebook Unveils Advertising Overhaul | The company, which traditionally has stuck with small ads that relied on users' personal data, announced on Wednesday a suite of new advertising products that could reach users in new places, like on their mobile devices, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Fortis Said to Plan Singapore I.P.O. | Fortis Healthcare, an Indian hospital operator, is planning a $400 million I.P.O. of a business trust in the second quarter, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Reviews Site Gets Reviewed | Yelp, which aims to raise $100 million in an I.P.O. this week, must convince investors it can hold its own against Google and Facebook in the advertising market, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Mortgage Company Falls on Debut | Home Loan Servicing Solutions, which was created by an executive of Ocwen Financial to acquire income from servicing mortgages, declined 3.1 percent on its first day of trading, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
A Bet on the Cloud Pays Off | Emergence Capital Partners, a venture capital firm that 10 years ago pitched the argument that business software would become cloud-based, just raised $250 million for its third fund, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Intel Targets Cars With New Fund | Intel announced a new $100 million venture capital fund aimed at accelerating innovation in cars, as vehicles become more computerized, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Social Site for Business Lands $85 Million | Yammer, which offers private social networks for companies, raised a fifth round of funding from investors including Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Khosla Ventures, AllThingsD reports. 
ALLTHINGSD
Calling All Entrepreneurs | The New York Times is inviting entrepreneurs to submit a video to the Make Your Pitch contest. Winners will be featured on the You're the Boss blog.
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Bernanke Says Fed Will Stay the Course | The Federal Reserve chairman said the central bank had not changed its view that the economy would grow 2.2 to 2.7 percent this year, despite a recent rise in oil prices, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Volcker Rule Could Miss Deadline, Bernanke Says | Ben Bernanke said he didn't think the Volcker Rule would be ready by the July deadline, when the restriction is set to take effect with a two-year transition period, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Hurried Wire Transfer in MF Global's Final Days | The Wall Street Journal, citing internal documents, reports that an employee in MF Global's Chicago office transferred $165 million from a customer account to one of the brokerage firm's accounts at JPMorgan Chase five days before the company collapsed.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Trade Group Pushes for New Rules After MF Global's Collapse | The Futures Industry Association released a series of recommendations intended to restore confidence among participants in commodities markets, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Government Antitrust Lawyer Heads to Microsoft | Randall Long, who led antitrust investigations into Google as a senior attorney at the Federal Trade Commission, will become a director of regulatory affairs at Microsoft, Google's rival, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fannie Mae Contests Bank of America's Story | Fannie Mae said the decision to part ways with Bank of America was not mutual, adding that it alone chose not to renew the contract after the bank resisted demands to buy back mortgages, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Closing Statements in the Stanford Trial | The case against R. Allen Stanford, the accused Ponzi schemer, was handed over to a jury on Wednesday, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
American Airlines Parent Posts January Loss | The bankrupt parent company of American Airlines reported a net loss of $234 million for January, including one-time costs that totaled $170 million, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bankruptcy Veteran Laments Changes to the Law | Chuck Benjamin, who has worked as a turnaround consultant for 23 years, says changes in bankruptcy law have given unsecured creditors more power.
"When bankruptcy evolved, it was to protect debtors, the owners," he told The New York Times. "Today, if they have to go into Chapter 11, the odds of the owners keeping the business are much lower."
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (93%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BONDS (89%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); CHARITIES (66%); MERGERS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); FAMILY (64%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (67%); EL PASO CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); CVR ENERGY INC (51%); KINDER MORGAN INC (50%); TATA COMMUNICATIONS LTD (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); CVI (NYSE) (51%); KMI (NYSE) (50%); TCL (NYSE) (50%); TATACOMM (NSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (67%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (68%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012



47 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Romney Faults Obama on Energy Production

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney takes issue with President Obama on how to increase domestic energy production. 

 BODY:
FARGO, N.D. - As President Obama headed to New Hampshire on Thursday to give a speech on increasing domestic energy production, Mitt Romney staked out his own energy position during a campaign stop in North Dakota, where the economy has been flourishing since the discovery of the Bakken Shale, an oil-rich deposit.
"Today the president is going to be in New Hampshire talking about energy in North Dakota," Mr. Romney said. "He's about as far away from North Dakota as he can get and still be in the United States. His idea of course is to be far enough away from the people who know what's really going on right here to maybe try and blow one past folks."
Mr. Romney talked energy production as concerns have been growing about rising gas prices. He accused Mr. Obama of trying to take credit for increases in domestic energy production, when, he argued, the private sector deserved the credit. And he said that the president had actually hindered efforts to increase domestic energy production.
Turning to Harold Hamm, the chairman of Continental Resources, which is spearheading the development of the Bakken Shale, Mr. Romney asked about Mr. Obama: "Harold, is he responsible for the increase? No, I didn't think so."
On Thursday, Mr. Romney's campaign announced that Mr. Hamm was joining his team as the chairman of Mr. Romney's energy policy advisory group.
"As a matter of fact, he is responsible for it not being as much of an increase as it could have been," Mr. Romney said, continuing his attack on Mr. Obama. "He doesn't get credit for the increase; he instead has tried to slow the growth of oil and gas production in this country, and coal production in this country."
"So far from taking credit" for increased energy production, Mr. Romney continued, "he should be hanging his head."
 Turning to the topic of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, - a drilling technique that involves using water and chemicals to extract oil and gas out from the ground - Mr. Romney criticized the administration's push to regulate the processes through the Environmental Protection Agency.
"It continues to be regulated by the states, but he wants the E.P.A. to get into it," Mr. Romney said. "As a matter of fact, he's got 10 different federal agencies trying to push their way into fracking so that they can slow down the development of oil and gas in this country."
Fracking is used widely in North Dakota, and the jobs it generates have helped lower the state's unemployment rate to 3.3 percent - the lowest in the nation. But environmentalists and others have warned that the chemicals used in the extraction techniques threaten water supplies, and that there are a host of other problems, like methane releases, associated with fracking. 
Mr. Romney also faulted Mr. Obama as delaying approval of the controversial Keystone pipeline, which would bring oil from Canada's tar sands into the United States. Mr. Romney called Keystone a "no-brainer" in saying it should be approved.
"When someone says we want to bring in a pipeline that's going to create tens of thousands of jobs to bring oil in from Canada, how in the world could you say no?" he said.
Mr. Romney concluded: "This is a president who does not understand energy. He is the problem. He is not the solution."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); MINING OUTPUT (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (65%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (74%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



48 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: What Next for Gas Prices?

BYLINE: CLIFFORD KRAUSS


HIGHLIGHT: If President Obama gets tougher on Iran, gas prices could rise even further, especially since prices normally go up in the spring and summer driving season anyway 

 BODY:
 As I write in Thursday's Times, gasoline prices keep going higher and higher.
 And how high they are going to go is just about anyone's guess. Those who track the supply and demand fundamentals say the price of oil should be about $80 a barrel and gasoline prices should be as much as 50 cents below where they are. But throw tensions with Iran into the mix, and you get scary prices. Investors - called speculators by many - see the fear and they throw money into oil futures contracts. That raises all of the benchmark oil prices well over $100 a barrel. 
The bet is the United States and Europe will continue to squeeze Iran with sanctions, which means there could be reduced supplies on world markets. If Iran retaliates by blockading the Strait of Hormuz, the vital Persian Gulf sea lane, watch out for hostilities and even higher prices.

 The daily rise in gasoline prices is already worrying many economists and consumers. According to the AAA daily gasoline price gauge, today's average price for regular unleaded is $3.74 a gallon, up nearly a penny from yesterday. That's a 13-cent rise over the last week and a 30 cent rise over the last month. The price is 35 cents higher than it was on March 1 of last year.
 The situation leaves President Obama with a dilemma on his hands. If he gets tougher on Iran, gas prices could go up even further, especially since prices normally go up in the spring and summer driving season anyway. It will be hard for him to balance national security, the economy and his own political interests. Given all of those uncertainties, consumers will be nervously eyeing the pumps.

        
Senate Opens Hearing on Oil and Gas Subsidies
        
Skidding Oil Prices: A Blip or a Trend?
        
Social Largess Speeds Rise in Oil Prices
        
Obama Again Demands an End to Oil Tax Breaks
        
The Big Picture on Energy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (98%); GASOLINE PRICES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); POLITICS (70%) gasoline prices; Iran; oil prices; President Obama; Obama, Barack; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; American Automobile Assn; Persian Gulf; Strait of Hormuz; United States; Automobiles; Business; Living; Politics and Policy; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: American Automobile Assn

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Iran; Persian Gulf; Strait of Hormuz; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



49 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions With Rick Santorum

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum sat down in Atlanta on Thursday to talk with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC. 

 BODY:
After losses in Arizona and Michigan, the Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum seeks new momentum for next week's Super Tuesday contests. Mr. Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator, aims to move beyond controversies over his views on social issues and emphasize economic proposals -- including his signature idea of eliminating corporate taxes for manufacturing firms. Before flying to Washington state, he sat down in an Atlanta airport on Thursday with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC. What follows is a condensed, edited version of their conversation. (Full video, divided by chapter.)
Q.
 Let me ask about your manufacturing agenda, you've said you like to let markets work. Don't you worry that this would distort markets?
A.
 There are different competitive marketplaces out there, and manufacturing is unique in that we have to compete against direct international competition. You have countries that desperately want to make things in their country because of the tremendous impact manufacturing has on wealth in a community. So that's why we are on a playing field right now that we are not competitive.
According to the National Association of Manufacturers, if you compare our costs to our top nine trading partners for manufacturing, we are 20 percent higher, excluding labor costs, which means it's government policy and at taxation of regulation that is making American manufacturers uncompetitive and the reason we are losing jobs. If you say, "Well, you know, it's just too bad, that's just the way -- you know, government has created this problem, and we're going to lose jobs as a result," I don't accept that.
Q.
 You've criticized Governor Romney for [the fact that] he says that he would pay for his tax cuts through people at the upper end of the scale. So your answer to him, then, is not to pay for the tax cuts? The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget said you'd add $4.5 trillion to the deficit over 10 years.
A.
 This is a group that believes that the world is flat, that when you change the dynamism of the tax code and the regulatory environment, that businesses won't react and produce more jobs and create more economic activity. I don't buy that. We'll see a dramatic increase in economic activity, which will result in lower transfer payments on means-tested entitlement programs, combine that with the spending cuts that I've proposed, particularly entitlement programs that we've -- we're going to take on. Throw on top of that the revenue gains that will come as a result of more business activity, and that will have a positive impact, I think, on the deficit.
What Governor Romney does is shift the tax burden in a particular area of that, again, it sort of plays class warfare. Saying, well, the wealthy should pay more and not everybody. He does in a way that's particularly damaging by eliminating the deductibility of certain things, particularly charitable deductions. Governor Romney is, in a sense, undermining the very institutions that have to be growing if we're going to reduce the size of government.
Q.
 You said the other day that President Obama wasn't just incompetent on economic policy, but he actually wanted unemployment to be higher. That doesn't make any sense to me. Isn't it more likely that you and Republicans want unemployment to be higher right now so it's easier to beat him?
A.
 I think the president doesn't believe in the private sector. I think he believes that government can create -- creates jobs and economic opportunity. So, yes, I believe his policies are purposefully focusing his energy and his resources on government-oriented policies and government programs like, you know, whether it's Solyndra or all these government management of the economy as opposed to lowering the cost of -- to business of regulations and taxes and which I believe creates economic opportunities. The
president's policies are deliberate. Now, is he deliberately trying to raise the unemployment rate? No. But he's deliberately putting more people on entitlement programs.
Q.
 Governor Romney said yesterday that you are an economic lightweight. Is -- as an example of that, that you blamed the recession and financial crisis on gas prices when most of the experts you talk to say the housing crash began well before the gas price spikes in 2008.
A.
 Sure, there were -- there were things going on in the housing market, and the housing market was starting to soften. But I don't think there's any question that the spike in gas prices had a horrible effect on the economy and led this to be a much, much deeper and harsher recession than otherwise would have been, Whether it commenced it, O.K., fine, $3.50 was the price of gas when the recession started. But it spiked even more and caused even more economic disruption I would agree -- after the housing crisis and the recession started. 
Q.
 You said the other day that the question about Mitt Romney was a matter of trust, given shifts in his political persona over time. A columnist the other day wrote a piece saying that his campaign was fundamentally dishonest. Do you think that's true?
A.
 Governor Romney's positions have been all over the map and continue to move all over the map. It's all reaction to what's politically is necessary to be able to get the votes that -- to win. I think people are tired of that. I have a much stronger record of having strong core convictions and of showing that passion for the things that I think most Republicans believe in.
Q.
 Do you think Mitt Romney's got a problem connecting with average people because he's so successful?
A.
 I think there are a lot of successful people in this country who connect amazingly well with the American people and have -- and one of the reasons they are successful is because they connect well. I don't think that's the reason Governor Romney was successful. It's hard sometimes to go from one sector or one area and transfer those skills into another area. There are certain skills that business people have that are -- that are, in fact, helpful in -- when it comes to being in political leadership. But there are skills also that those who were involved in public life bring to the table that are also important skills to governing this country.
Q.
 You're known as a critic of American culture and someone who's concerned about the morality of the culture. When you look at corporate America and Wall Street, do you admire the culture?
A.
 Capitalism actually encourages morality because capitalism can't function well if people can't trust each other and people aren't honest, if a deal isn't a deal. That's not to say that people don't do bad things and commit fraud. But the more moral the people are in their business dealings, the less paperwork you need, the more handshakes you can have, the more the wheels of capitalism work better because there's trust in the marketplace. Business ethics is not a joke. And, in fact, I think most businesses that I've dealt with encourage exactly that type of behavior.
Q.
 You've talked about markets working. There's some people who've been listening to you who think that on issues like contraception, church and state, J.F.K., college education, that you're challenging ideas that the marketplace of public opinion has long settled, and it's crazy.
A.
 Oh, no, I don't think so at all. I don't think the marketplace of public has settled at all on the issue of faith in the public square. This is not a settled issue.
Q.
 Contraception's pretty well settled.
A.
 I didn't question contraception. As a Catholic it is, frankly, pretty offensive to say just because I have personal beliefs that someone or another I'm to impose them on everybody else when there's no record of me ever doing that.
Q.
 A lot of people that you know in politics, especially after Romney won two contests on Tuesday, are saying we know he's going to be the nominee. What do you say to those people who say make this process stop to avoid hurting Republicans?
A.
 Yeah, so we can nominate another moderate Republican. We've done really well when we've nominated a person whose turn it was who was a moderate, John McCain, Bob Dole, re-election of George H.W. Bush, Jerry Ford. All those folks have done great in a general election. Wrong. We're not going to make it stop because we're going to win. We're going to win this nomination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (65%) Harwood, John; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%) Harwood, John; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



50 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2069 words

HEADLINE: A Warning on the Accuracy of Primary Polls

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The polls have been reasonably good in the last few days before an election - but pretty awful before that. 

 BODY:
After another wild polling ride in Michigan, it is time for a reflection on just how accurate primary and caucus polls have been -- both in an absolute sense and as compared with past years. This discussion, of course, also has implications for the FiveThirtyEight forecast model, which is based upon the polls.
The short version: the polls have been reasonably good in the last few days before the election. Not perfect by any means -- worse than general election polling typically is, for example. But no worse, and probably somewhat better, than in past primaries. 
In densely polled states -- that term, importantly, would disqualify Colorado -- there haven't been any huge surprises on Election Day itself. If you think it counts as a surprise that Mitt Romney won Michigan by three points when polls showed a rough tie, or that Rick Santorum narrowly won Iowa when he was a couple of points back, you don't have a realistic conception of how reliable primary and caucus polling is.
On the other hand, the polls have been pretty awful at most points prior to about three days before the election, seeing surges and momentum shifts that often dissipated.
The chart below tracks the error in the polls and compares it to the number of days in advance of the election that they were conducted. The error is measured by looking at how much the polls missed the final margin between the top two candidates. For example, if Newt Gingrich beat Mitt Romney by 12 points in South Carolina, and the poll called for Mr. Gingrich to win by 5 points instead, that would count as a 7-point error. And if the poll had forcasted Mr. Romney to win the state by 5 points instead, it would represent a 17-point error.
Only the candidates who actually finished in the top two are considered. If an Iowa poll had Mr. Romney in first, Ron Paul in second and Rick Santorum in third, this method looks only at the difference it showed between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum, ignoring the value it had for Mr. Paul. (This is the same technique that I use to calculate my pollster ratings.)
On average, a poll conducted on the day just before the election has missed the final margin between the candidates by about 4 percentage points. That is reasonably good; the comparable statistic for state polls in presidential general elections is something like 2 or 3 points, and primaries and caucuses are much more challenging to poll.
However, the errors have increased significantly the further you go out. Polls conducted just three days before the primary have missed by an average of about 7 points, and those conducted a week out have missed by about 10. 
And the whole period from about one week to two weeks before the primary has been a disaster, with an average miss of about 12 points. That's just the average, not even the worst of it; quite a few polls, especially in Florida and South Carolina, missed by 20 or more points.
Things, oddly, actually get a bit better when you go further back than that. Polls conducted a month before the primary have missed by an average of about 9 points -- actually a bit better than those only a week or so in advance. 
This could just be a fluke -- this looks like a ton of data, but almost all of it is from about six states, some of which voted at the same time as one another and were subject to the same currents of momentum. 
With that said, if you see a sudden shift in the momentum in a state, it's at least worth considering what the polls had said about the state beforehand. The momentum shifts -- at least as measured by the polls -- have been very significant in this race, and unlike anything we have seen routinely in the past. The problem is that sometimes that momentum has been a false alarm, with the polls soon reverting back to form. The exception has been momentum swings in the final few days of the campaign; those usually have held up and have been reflected in the actual results.
The FiveThirtyEight forecast model, as you might expect, has been affected by these quirks. Unlike most of our other forecasting products, which tend to blend polls with various types of economic or demographic data, our primary forecasts look at polls and polls alone. In fact, they double-down on them: the program is designed to place a heavy emphasis on the most recent polls and tries to infer what momentum exists in the race and extrapolate that forward.
If you look at how the FiveThirtyEight forecasts have performed on Election Day itself, they've done pretty well. On average, they've missed the final margin between the top two candidates by 2.8 points so far. 
(Note: I exclude Nevada from the calculation, although the forecast there was pretty good, because we issued that prediction only a day or two before the state voted. We did not issue forecasts, thankfully, for Minnesota, Colorado or Maine, since the polling there was thin to nonexistent.)
The 2.8-point miss is a fair bit better than how individual polls have done: it is useful to take an average of different surveys on the chance that their errors will cancel out. In addition to taking a simple average, however, the FiveThirtyEight model also does some more complicated stuff. It weights the polls differently based on their past accuracy and their sample size, for instance, although in practice this makes very little difference. What does distinguish the FiveThirtyEight model is that it is very aggressive about trying to determine the momentum or trend in the race.
This has served the model well on Election Day. By comparison, the Real Clear Politics forecasts -- which use a perfectly sensible but simpler and more conservative approach -- have missed by an average of 4.4 points. Most of the difference comes from Iowa and South Carolina, states where there was a very late momentum swing that the FiveThirtyEight model captured more fully.
However, this aggressive approach has decidedly not paid dividends at earlier periods in these contests, when the model made big bets on what turned out to be false starts. On average, the forecasts we published one week before each election missed the final margin by an average of 13.8 points.
Most of this is just because the polling itself has been inaccurate, but the simpler approach used by Real Clear Politics average has done slightly better, missing by an average of 12.9 points instead.
In addition to comparing the FiveThirtyEight model with its competition, however, it is also worth looking at the standards it sets for itself. It does not claim to be all that accurate -- but is it accurate about how inaccurate it is? (Although this might sound ridiculous, it is precisely the kind of thing that forecasters in fields ranging from economics to climate change need to spend more time thinking about.)
Our current forecast in Ohio is that Mr. Romney will get 31 percent of the vote there. But the confidence interval attached to the forecast (which represents 90 percent of the possible outcomes) is wide: it ran from 17 points to 42 points. The reason these intervals are so wide is simply because they are built from historical data, and this isn't the first year that polls in primaries and caucuses have missed the mark.
What's been unusual, however, is the way in which these errors have been related to the timing of the election. In the past, polls have gotten somewhat more accurate as we've approached Election Day, but the improvement has been gradual. This year, the polls have gone from quite bad to quite good almost literally overnight -- typically about three days before the election.
The next chart provides a clear demonstration of this. It compares the actual error in the FiveThirtyEight model at points in time ranging to 25 days before the election against what the model thinks the error should be based on the historical data. Less technically, it compares the error in primary polls this year with that of past election cycles.
For instance, the model is supposed to miss the final margin by about 6 points when it issues a forecast on Election Day. The actual error -- 2.8 points -- has been much less than that.
That's a good thing, right? Well, maybe. It probably makes my life easier. In the short term, however, it is probably just good luck. And in the long term, it could imply that the forecasts are underconfident -- that the confidence intervals we publish are too wide and reflect more uncertainty about the outcome than there really is. 
You would have just the opposite discussion, of course, if you looked at the forecasts we have issued 7 to 14 days in advance. Not only have they been inaccurate, but they have been even less accurate than claimed -- and we don't claim they are very accurate to begin with! 
But this, too, arguably reflects a certain amount of "luck" (bad luck in this case). Over the whole 25-day period, the forecasts have been pretty well-calibrated: it's just that the "hits" have tended to be concentrated on election night itself, and the misses have peaked a week or two beforehand.
This need not be so abstract a discussion, however. Can we come up with a better explanation than "luck" to describe what we are seeing in the polls?
If I had to use a word to describe the behavior of Republican voters so far in this race, it would be this one: indifferent. Their preferences between the various candidates have been very weak, shifting after seemingly every debate, primary and news cycle. Many Republican voters like two or more candidates equally well -- or at least see two or more of them as being less bad than the others.
To be sure, it may also be that the polls are exaggerating this tendency. Most polls now, and especially automated polls, have very low response rates, only getting a small fraction of the people they call to stay on the phone. This may bias the polls in favor of candidates whose voters are most excited about the race on that particular evening. If you called a Rick Santorum supporter the day after Mr. Santorum won Minnesota and Colorado, he would probably be giddy and pleased to talk to you -- whereas a Mitt Romney supporter would have been despondent and hung up the phone.
It is, of course, a good thing for a candidate to have enthusiastic supporters. But their voters need to be excited at the right time: on Election Day. Thus, this tendency to pick up on the most excited supporters may be a boon to pollsters immediately before an election, but can make the polls buggy beforehand. 
I doubt this accounts for all or even most of the momentum shifts we are seeing, much of which is probably real, but I suspect it accounts for some of it. As I've mentioned previously, I'd be especially cautious about polls conducted in the 24 or 48 hours after a candidate achieves a big "win" in a primary or in a debate, especially if it is an automated survey.
And if you're a Republican voter who does have a favorite candidate, I'd be even more cautious. If I were a Mitt Romney supporter, for instance, I'm not sure I'd be "rooting" for polls that showed Mr. Romney ahead in Ohio right now -- something we have not seen yet but may see soon. That could set up exaggerated expectations for Mr. Romney in a state that is ultimately pretty tough for him and where his polls have usually lagged behind his national averages. Then, if Mr. Romney goes on to lose the state -- and we have seen a number of states revert to the mean implied by their demographics as the election draws near -- he could be viewed as "blowing" the lead when he never had a firm grasp on it to begin with.
Of course, Mr. Romney benefited from this very pattern in Michigan, a state where he had a dominant position in the polls until the final two weeks, and an underwhelming win looked like a triumph.
But if the pattern continues to repeat itself -- polls alter and exaggerate expectations for a candidate, leading to inevitable disappointment when he does not live up to them -- we may see the see-saw patterns of momentum continue in the race.
We're going to continue publishing our forecasts -- they are as useful a way to summarize the polls as anything else -- but please regard them with caution, and remember that those wide confidence intervals are there for a reason.

        
How Would Santorum Do Without Gingrich?
        
A Guide to Super Tuesday Possibilities
        
In Caucus States, a Chance for (Almost) Every Candidate
        
After Many Momentum Shifts, Michigan Is Too Close to Call
        
Stress-Testing Romney's Michigan Edge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); STATISTICS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%) caucus; polls; primaries; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Politics; Polling

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



51 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Leaps of Faith

BYLINE: MOLLY WORTHEN


HIGHLIGHT: What do President Obama's conservative Christian critics really mean when they portray him as an enemy of religious freedom? 

 BODY:
For the past three and a half years, Republicans have struggled to explain a great conundrum. If they are the party of authentic America with a mystical connection to the will of the people, then how, exactly, did Barack Obama get elected president? 
Some Republicans have come up with an answer that allows them to avoid facing the unpleasant reality of their own party's failures: Obama must be a great deceiver. He won the White House by subterfuge.
Claims that Obama concealed nonnative birth or faith in Islam failed to gain mainstream traction, but conservatives like Sean Hannity were more successful in labeling Obama as covertly "anti-American" based on his association with the incendiary pastor the Rev. Jeremiah Wright. By this logic, Obama was a paragon of Christian piety. He "savored" every word on Sunday mornings and would surely govern by these traitorous principles: his beliefs were dangerous because, well, he really believed them.
Now his critics have reversed course: they say Obama is a sham Christian. He thinks religion is not heartfelt belief that demands full expression, but only a matter of showing up at church. He is not the first president to stand so accused: in the election of 1800, one clergyman charged Thomas Jefferson with "disbelief of the Holy Scriptures," and Abraham Lincoln battled the suggestion that he was a "scoffer of Christianity." 
But Obama's opponents have a new twist on this old allegation. They find evidence for his unbelief not by exposing his biblical illiteracy or shoddy church attendance, but in his failure to support "religious freedom."
Religious freedom is as American as apple pie, isn't it? How could anyone oppose it? Because - this line of reasoning goes - Obama is not who he says he is. He claims to be a true Christian and a true American, but his actions prove otherwise. 
The charge that the president is a faker on religious freedom is the most recent iteration of the ongoing attack on his legitimacy: it is the new "birther" movement. It's also a decades-old rhetorical tool of the culture wars intended to depict the entire left as frauds who supposedly stand for a tolerant open society, but who are in fact disciples of a secular pseudo-religion intent on quashing Christian influence in America.
The Rev. Franklin Graham, who has always been more provocative than his prudent father Billy, told MSNBC last week that the president lacks sufficient outrage over the plight of persecuted Christians. "Islam has gotten a free pass under Obama," Graham said, adding that the Muslim world sees Obama as "a son of Islam" who will not challenge religious oppression. "The Muslims of the world - he seems to be more concerned about them than the Christians that are being murdered in the Muslim countries - that's what bothers me." (Graham offered a half-apology on Tuesday, saying he regretted any comments that "cast any doubt on the personal faith of our president.") 
During the recent outcry over the Obama administration's new rule requiring religious employers to cover birth control in their insurance plans, Gingrich and Romney blasted the president too: here was proof of Obama's aim to oppress religious expression and trample constitutional rights.
Last week, at a rally at a Christian college in Michigan, Santorum called the president "particularly weak" on religious freedom. He insisted that "freedom of religion" is much more than "freedom of worship" confined within a church's four walls, which even "tyrants" support. "When you have the president of the United States referring to freedom of religion and you have the secretary of state referring to the freedom of religion, not as the freedom of religion but the freedom of worship, you should get very, very nervous," he warned.
When conservatives cry "freedom of religion" and insist they mean something more than "freedom of worship," this is what they mean: religious freedom is not just the freedom to gather in a room and pray one morning a week. It is the freedom to impose one's own religious values on others. Free expression of religion entails the right to reason from religious principles in the public square and - with sufficient electoral support - to enshrine those principles in law and social institutions. If Obama does not support this view, they argue, then he is hardly a true American.
Over the course of American history, "religious freedom" has been a shape-shifter invoked just as often in the name of prejudice (in 19th-century Protestant campaigns against Catholic schools; in fundamentalist colleges' racial discrimination a hundred years later) as on behalf of liberty. It is a code phrase alternately benign and sinister, much like that other clever cloak for bigotry, "states' rights." In the context of the 2012 race, the charge that Obama subverts religious freedom is a code meant to label the president as an impostor, a blasphemer of the American gospel who adheres to another religion entirely.
Santorum has hit this theme the hardest, warning that conservative Christians must not be fooled by the president's efforts to play the neutral statesman who treats all believers equally. On the contrary, he obeys a false religion with nonnegotiable assumptions of its own. Santorum notably described Obama's environmentalism as a "phony theology" and a "worldview." 
This is an attempt to paint as irrationally ideological a president who has proven himself to be not very ideological at all (much to the frustration of his supporters on the left). It is a culture warrior's maneuver to cast American politics as a Manichean battleground between two worldviews - red-blooded Christian America pitted against the secularist stranger - worldviews so captive to their own logic that they cannot possibly compromise on anything.
This obsession with "worldviews" has been a favorite tactic of the Christian right. In the 1970s, Francis Schaeffer and other activists taught evangelicals to organize against the "secular humanist worldview" that was denaturing America's Christian values in an acid bath of "humanist religion," "an exclusivist, closed system which shuts out all contending viewpoints" (that's the "phony theology" that Santorum was talking about). 
Schaeffer's admirers often note that he defends religious freedom in his 1981 book, "A Christian Manifesto." But after Schaeffer called for "general religious freedom" for all faiths, he went on to lament the left's manipulation of the First Amendment to encourage a "new concept of pluralism" in which "there is no right or wrong; it is just a matter of your personal preference."
To recover America's biblical foundation, Christians had to "do battle on the entire front:" not just in church, but in the courts, classrooms, outside abortion clinics and everywhere else, Schaeffer wrote. The emerging Christian right asserted that this was the true meaning of "religious freedom" in America: freedom to institutionalize Christian dogma in American society and law. Freedom of religion - a phrase that sounds at first blush like a bipartisan nod to our common political heritage - is a weapon of culture war.
Slogans like this have political power. Voters on both the right and the left have little sympathy for politicians who reason through problems and recognize ambiguity (conservatives won't forgive Romney for his honest struggles with the abortion issue, and Obama faces liberal wrath for his nuanced approach to economic recovery). Wonkish debates are boring and complicated, and not very good for separating the sheep from the goats. What matters are your "presuppositions," your "worldview."
Conservatives' accusations that Obama disrespects religious freedom have little to do with the White House's actual policy: his administration has a strong track record in supporting faith-based organizations and ensuring that prisoners have access to religious literature, for example. They have everything to do with resurrecting old challenges to the president's legitimacy and framing the 2012 campaign as a battle between honest Christian Americans and atheist subversives. "Enemy of religious freedom" is shorthand for a deceiver who is not one of us: in Gingrich's words, one who "played a wonderful con, as a result of which he is now president."

        
What's a Republican Feminist To Do?
        
Gingrich 2012? Going, Going, Gone
        
There They Go Again
        
Where Did They Get the Money For That?
        
The Tempting of the Christian Right

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%) Barack Obama; Christianity and politics; conservative Christianity; faith; Franklin Graham; Newt Gingrich; Rick Santorum; Graham, Franklin; Obama, Barack; Wright, Jeremiah A Jr; Christians and Christianity; Freedom of Religion; Presidential Election of 2012; Religion and Belief

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Graham, Franklin; Obama, Barack; Wright, Jeremiah A Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



52 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Pick Up Pace Despite Rising Gas Prices

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Auto sales jumped 16 percent last month to the highest level since before the recession, helped by declining unemployment and improving consumer confidence even as gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon in parts of the country.
The seasonally adjusted, annualized selling rate for new vehicles, a closely watched indication of the auto industry's health, climbed to 15.1 million in February. It was the first time the rate reached that level since 2008.
Analysts said it was too early to predict if the February rate was sustainable -- March is typically a much stronger month for auto sales and therefore more indicative of long-term trends -- but the outlook was bright enough that General Motors, Ford and Chrysler were seeking ways to increase production. 
''We don't see any major risks to industry sales going below 14 million this year,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for market intelligence at TrueCar.com, which tracks pricing and sales.
Automakers sold 12.8 million cars and trucks last year, and the last time sales surpassed 14 million was 2007. That same year, General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler lost more than $44 billion. The sales gains reported Thursday were achieved without the big discounts that helped many sales booms in the past. And even though many shoppers were drawn to small and less gas-thirsty models, buyers paid an average of $1,943 more for a car than last year, the biggest year-over-year increase in recent memory, according to TrueCar.com.
The price increase was a result of buyers adding more optional features even as they downsized to save money on gas. The options helped offset the lower profit margins for automakers that small cars generate relative to large trucks.
''This is sort of a dream scenario from an automaker's perspective,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''They're selling more cars while spending less money on incentives.''
Chrysler extended its string of year-over-year sales gains to 23 consecutive months with a 40 percent increase in February. The company, helped by its widely discussed ad featuring Clint Eastwood during the Feb. 5 Super Bowl, sold 126 percent more passenger cars.
''Our product portfolio now contains some of the most fuel-efficient vehicles in our company's history,'' Reid Bigland, the head of United States sales for Chrysler, said in a statement. ''A few years ago, higher fuel prices were a major threat to our total vehicle sales, whereas today, those higher prices have become far less of an issue.''
Ford reported a 14 percent gain, while G.M. said sales increased 1 percent compared with an unusually strong month a year ago, when it was offering large incentives.
Toyota and Honda each reported 12 percent gains, while Nissan's sales rose 16 percent. Volkswagen, BMW, Mazda, Kia, Suzuki and Jaguar Land Rover each reported increases of more than 30 percent.
The big unknown hanging over the auto industry's recovery remains gas prices.
Through Thursday, gas prices had risen for 23 consecutive days, according to the AAA motor club. The national average for regular gas was about $3.74 a gallon, 10 percent more than a year ago.
''We do not believe that short-term fluctuations in pump prices will curtail industry growth in 2012,'' Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales, said. ''That's because consumers and the overall economy are in much better shape than they were a year ago.''
Ford's chief sales analyst, Erich Merkle, said underlying demand for new vehicles was strong enough that gas prices were not deterring consumers from buying new vehicles. They are going ahead with buying cars but increasingly choosing smaller, more fuel-efficient ones, he said. Ford said it would boost output by 3 percent in the second quarter.
''Clearly at some point, gas prices would have a detrimental effect on the economy, but we're not there yet,'' Mr. Merkle said.
Over all, sales of small cars rose 27 percent in February, according to the industry research firm Autodata. Toyota said it sold 63 percent more hybrid cars, and this week it began shipping two new versions of its flagship Prius hybrid to dealerships. Toyota on Thursday said it would add 80 jobs this year at a plant in West Virginia so it could build 30 percent more 6-speed, fuel-efficient transmissions.
Ford and Chrysler each said sales of their full-size pickups were up more than 20 percent in February. Rising pickup truck sales are viewed as a positive sign for the economy, because those vehicles are often bought by builders and other businesses.
Sales of the Chevrolet Volt, G.M.'s plug-in hybrid car, rebounded in February after publicity surrounding a government investigation of the Volt had caused demand for it to drop. G.M. sold 1,023 Volts in February, up from 603 in January. Volt sales last month were more than double that of its chief rival, the all-electric Nissan Leaf, which sold 478.
Many people put off replacing their current car or truck during the recession and are now in a position where the vehicle needs to be replaced. The average age of a vehicle on the road today is 10.8 years, the highest on record, according to the research firm R. L. Polk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Chevrolet dealership in Englewood, Colo. G.M. said sales in February increased 1 percent compared with a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Ford Focus
Toyota Corolla/Matrix
A customer examining a pickup. The average age of a vehicle on the road today is 10.8 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B3) CHARTS: Most Popular Cars and Trucks
How the Industry Fared
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); TRUECAR INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



53 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: A Bold Plan to Reshape the Central Valley Flood Plain

BYLINE: By JOHN UPTON. 
jupton@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jacob Katz stood shin-deep in a flooded rice paddy that is often dried out at this time of year. He thrust his hand into a writhing mass of baby salmon in his net and plucked three of the silver fry from the wind-whipped water's surface.
In late January, five acres of this farmland in Yolo County was flooded and stocked with thousands of weeks-old Chinook salmon. It was the beginning of a three-year experiment that conservationists and government officials hope will provide scientific data to help guide a sweeping transformation of riverfront lands throughout the Central Valley, California's prolific farming region.
''They were about two-thirds this size when we put them in,'' said Mr. Katz, a doctoral candidate at the University of California, Davis, as the plump fry flapped off his palm and into the water. ''They're growing very, very rapidly. They're looking great. It's exactly what we want to see.'' 
An ambitious draft flood-prevention plan, published in December by the California Department of Water Resources, would re-engineer the valley's network of rivers, canals and levees in an effort to prevent floods, restore wildlife habitat and protect water supplies for millions of people in the Bay Area and other parts of California. The plan, which calls for reversing the effects of 160 years of ad hoc levee building in the Central Valley, is a response to the deadly 2005 floods in New Orleans that followed Hurricane Katrina. Experts say a collapse of the Central Valley levees could cause similar devastation in California.
Yet the plan would take decades and cost tens of billions of dollars in local, state and federal money. It could also sink tens of thousands of acres of agricultural land under water, including parts of the Knaggs Ranch rice farm, where the baby salmon are growing along the Sacramento River.
Some farmers are angry because the plan, they said, enhances the environment and protects urban dwellers from floods at the expense of agricultural jobs and the rural economy. They also criticized state planners for failing to identify which parcels of land would be affected.
Jay Punia, executive officer of the Central Valley Flood Protection Board, which is charged with reviewing and approving the plan by July 1, said information about affected lands and other details about habitat restoration strategies sought by environmentalists would come after the draft is approved.
''This plan is basically a blueprint, a very high-level conceptual plan,'' Mr. Punia said.
The baby fish in Mr. Katz's net had spent three weeks in the experimental flood plain feasting on plankton and insects that young salmon historically relied upon to build their strength before venturing down rivers, through San Francisco Bay and into the Pacific Ocean.
Such nursery-style flood-plain habitats have nearly disappeared from the Central Valley. The creeks and rivers that carry rainwater and snowmelt from the Sierra Nevada and into the West Coast's largest estuary were tamed long ago, lined with earthen levees that protect farms and a growing number of neighborhoods from the widespread flooding that defined the region until the middle of the 19th century.
Salmon, steelhead trout, Sacramento splittail and other native fish are not the only wildlife that flourish in the few remaining Central Valley flood plains. The habitats provide breeding, resting and feeding places for birds, including those that migrate along the heavily traveled avian highway between Mexico and Alaska, colloquially dubbed the Pacific Flyway.
Most of the levees, built as mounds of silt, sand and other materials found close to the riverbank, are in danger of collapsing. The Central Valley's flood risks are considered among the most acute in the nation.
Such disasters could jeopardize $70 billion worth of property and infrastructure, put one million people at risk and contaminate or sever much of the state's water supply, the Department of Water Resources estimates. Floods in 1983, 1986, 1995 and 1997 caused hundreds of thousands of people to be evacuated from their homes and resulted in more than $3 billion damage.
Until levee construction began in 1850, winter rains and melting snow would frequently cause rivers in the Central Valley to overflow. Shallow floodwaters teeming with wildlife would engulf the valley, flushing south and west until converging at the delta of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers near Antioch, before gushing down into Suisun, San Pablo and San Francisco Bays.
Now, the more than 1,500 miles of levees confine most young salmon to river channels, where they are preyed upon as they grow by larger fish, including invasive striped bass, and are forced to battle currents as they hunt for midges, zooplankton and other food that was easier to find in the long-lost flood plains.
''There's more to eat on a flood plain than there is in a river,'' Mr. Katz said. ''It's warmer, and that's better for the metabolism of salmon.''
The loss of spawning and flood-plain habitats has contributed to a near-collapse of salmon in the region. Hatchery-raised fish now dominate and sustain many of the salmon populations, but those fish have been found to have genetic weaknesses and other ailments that can exacerbate the species' woes.
The experimental site is part of the Yolo Bypass, a managed plain that floods after winter storms douse the northern part of the state on an average of 6 years out of every 10. Researchers plan to spend three winters measuring how different approaches to managing the creek-front lands affect salmon growth rates.
The Yolo Bypass flood plain overlaps private and public land, including rice fields, duck hunting clubs and protected habitat. It works as a relief valve, absorbing water in wet years, preventing that water from knocking down or cascading over levees and rushing into populated areas.
Under the draft Central Valley Flood Protection Plan, and also under the department's draft Bay Delta Conservation Plan, which seeks to balance economic and environmental uses of water, the flood plain would be expanded and could flood every year. Other flood plains would be created or expanded throughout the region to help restore riverside habitats and reduce flood risks. In some cases, levees would be set back farther from rivers, creating flood buffers and shallow flood-plain-style habitat.
The proposed overhaul would cause the loss of 10,000 acres of farmland, according to preliminary estimates. An additional 30,000 acres would be frequently inundated.
If they expand the Yolo Bypass, ''it's going to bring all my ground inside the bypass,'' said Tim Miramontes, a farmer who grows rice and other crops on 1,500 acres of land that he leases near Knaggs Ranch. ''Potentially, I could lose all of it.''
Senator Lois Wolk, Democrat of Davis, one of the authors of the 2007 legislation that led to the flood planning process, acknowledged that the plan would be expensive and painful to put into action. But she said the risks of doing nothing could be far worse.
''It is a dramatic plan,'' Ms. Wolk said. ''The state taxpayer is liable for any damage that occurs if we haven't fixed the levees. Not only is the taxpayer's pocketbook at risk, but the cost in lives and disruption would be dramatic -- worse, much worse, than Katrina.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacob Katz, a Ph.D candidate at the University of California, Davis, at an experimental flood plain that was stocked with baby Chinook salmon, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOOD ZONES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); FISHES (89%); RIVERS (87%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (87%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LAND RECLAMATION (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); APPROVALS (75%); WILDLIFE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); FARM LABOR (70%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (69%); WATER QUALITY (65%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



54 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Tracing the Great Recession To a Memo 40 Years Ago

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
''Heist: Who Stole the American Dream?'' is a documentary polemic that comes out swinging. Immediately after the film's opening scene of an Occupy Wall Street demonstration, a chipper narrator announces:
''The mess we're in now did not begin on Wall Street. Long before the financial collapse, the dismantlement of government regulation was well under way. All the consequences are the result of a brilliantly executed coup. This is the story of the biggest heist in American history.''
Coup? The common notion is of a group of generals overthrowing a government and installing a military regime. 
Heist? The word conjures images of masked, armed crooks robbing a bank and escaping in a getaway car.
But in today's political climate of overheated rhetoric, dropping loaded words may be the only way to get attention.
Be that as it may, this project, produced and directed by Frances Causey and Donald Goldmacher, has the virtue of taking the long view of a crisis that recent films like ''Inside Job'' and ''Too Big to Fail'' have only sketchily explored. It makes a strong case that government regulation of business is essential for democracy to flourish. One of many pertinent observations from a host of experts is that the rich really don't need the government as much as everybody else.
Ms. Causey, who had a 14-year career as a journalist for CNN, wrote ''Heist'' with Hollis Rich. Mr. Goldmacher is a documentarian whose first film, ''Do No Harm,'' examined the marketing and research practices of the pharmaceutical industry.
To say that the ideas in ''Heist,'' which locates the source of our current troubles in a famous 1971 memorandum, belongs to the paranoid conspiracy school of history is not to suggest that its point of view isn't fairly persuasive. Conspiracies exist.
The seeds of the financial crisis, the film maintains, were sown by Lewis F. Powell Jr., a Virginia lawyer and representative of the tobacco industry who later became an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court. In a confidential memo to the United States Chamber of Commerce, ''Attack on the American Free Enterprise System,'' he urged American corporations to take a much stronger role in influencing politics and law.
The memorandum helped spur the formation of advocacy research organizations like the Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute and paved the way for lobbyists to descend on Washington. In 1978, while on the Supreme Court, Powell successfully argued for the right of corporations to make political contributions.
The movement to deregulate government control of corporations and to disempower organized labor accelerated after the 1980 presidential election. An early public battle in 1981 pitted Ronald Reagan against striking air traffic controllers. The film says that the number of American workers in unions has dwindled to 1 out of 14, from 1 in 3 in the 1950s.
The filmmakers swiftly tick off legislation that they regard as concerted class warfare waged by corporations in collusion with corporate-controlled news media against the middle and working class: Starting in 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which encouraged the outsourcing of cheap labor; the 1999 repeal of parts of the Glass-Steagall Act, which had separated commercial and investment banking; and the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, which deregulated over-the-counter derivatives, allowed financial institutions to run wild. Both major political parties, they argue, promoted deregulation fever.
''Heist'' feels rushed. Many of its points could use elaboration. Its final section is a to-do list delivered in the tone of a high school civics teacher: restore fair taxation; make Wall Street play by the rules; build communities; develop efficient and sustainable energy through ''a green New Deal''; and restore the labor movement.
It all sounds peachy. The only way for these things to happen is through a widespread grass-roots awakening. (To point the way, the film offers scattered hopeful examples of constructive, do-it-yourself activism.) The Occupy Wall Street movement may be a sign of that. Or not.
Heist
Who Stole the American Dream?
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Produced and directed by Donald Goldmacher and Frances Causey; written by Ms. Causey and Hollis Rich; narrated by Thom Hartmann; director of photography, Rogelio Garcia; music by David Raiklen; released by Connecting the Dots Productions. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes. This film is not rated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Occupy Wall Street protester last year, in a scene from ''Heist: Who Stole the American Dream?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX MALLIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); HISTORY (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); WRITERS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BANK ROBBERY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); STRIKES (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (63%); LABOR UNIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



55 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Financial Rally Sends Shares Higher

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced on Thursday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to the highest level since 2008, as financial shares rallied and government data showed that initial jobless claims declined to a four-year low.
JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America climbed at least 1.8 percent as Spanish and French borrowing costs fell. ConocoPhillips added 2.2 percent, pacing gains among energy producers, as crude oil traded near $110 a barrel. Gap, the apparel chain, increased 7.2 percent as same-store sales exceeded estimates. General Motors rose 1.7 percent after reporting a surprise sales gain in the United States. 
The S.& P. 500 added 8.41 points, 0.62 percent, to 1,374.09. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 28.23 points, or 0.22 percent, to 12,980.30. The Nasdaq composite index was up 22.08 points, or 0.74 percent, at 2,988.97
''We're not lighting the world on fire, but we're seeing improvement in the economy,'' Mark Masterson, managing director and partner at HighTower's Masterson, Emma & Associates in Naples, Fla., said.
Equities rose as the number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell to a level matching a four-year low, more evidence the labor market was healing. Gains in Europe also helped lift the S.& P. 500 after Spain and France sold 12.5 billion euros ($16.7 billion) of bonds. The European Central Bank's long-term refinancing operation of lending to banks helped spur demand.
Financial shares had the biggest gain among 10 industries in the S.& P. 500, adding 1.2 percent. JPMorgan increased 2.9 percent, the most in the Dow, to $40.37. Bank of America had the second-largest advance in the 30-stock index, climbing 1.9 percent, to $8.12.
The Goldman Sachs Group jumped 5.2 percent, to $121.13. The company agreed to buy Ariel Holdings' insurance and reinsurance businesses to expand property and casualty coverage.
Benchmark gauges briefly pared gains as oil jumped after a report of an explosion on a pipeline in Saudi Arabia. A government official said Thursday there was no sabotage to its oil facilities in the Qatif region. Energy shares in the S.& P. 500 added 0.9 percent as a group. ConocoPhillips gained 2.2 percent, to $78.22.
''U.S. stocks and economic data appear to be moving at least two steps forward for every step back which, we believe, leads to a strengthening trend for both,'' Kully Samra, who manages British-based clients for Charles Schwab, said. ''Rising oil prices are a risk to global growth, but we're optimistic the improved environment will keep the recovery in motion.''
Gap surged 7.2 percent, the most in the S.& P. 500, to $25.05. Sales climbed 4 percent, beating the average projection for a 1.4 percent drop from analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics. Unseasonably warm weather helped purchases of spring merchandise.
Car companies had the biggest gain among 24 industries in the S.& P. 500, rallying 2.1 percent. G.M. added 1.7 percent, to $26.47. Ford Motor climbed 2.3 percent, to $12.66.
Advanced Micro Devices climbed 2.2 percent, to $7.51, after the company, a maker of processors for personal computers, said it would pay $334 million to buy SeaMicro, a chip designer with expertise in servers, adding technology that can help it compete with Intel in the market for data centers.
Interest rates inched higher for a third consecutive day. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 16/32, to 99 24/32, and the yield rose to 2.03 percent from 1.97 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); REINSURANCE (66%); EURO (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%); SCHW (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



56 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: The Governor Will Now Take Questions. Except That One, or That One ...

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
9:25 p.m. Updated
ALBANY- One resident wanted the governor's opinion on the state of kayaking regulation. Another wanted to chat about train service in Stony Brook. A Monty Python fan even asked the governor, ''What is the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?''
Hundreds of New Yorkers posed prodding, pointed and even pointless questions to Andrew M. Cuomo when the governor, responding to concerns about transparency in his administration, sat down one Saturday morning in September to field inquiries online. The governor and an adviser chose just a handful to answer - he fielded 16 largely innocuous questions - but the unanswered questions, released Thursday in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, provide an unusual glimpse behind the curtain of the Web chat, demonstrating how an elected official can smooth the occasionally rough and random edges of public discourse. 
The unanswered questions ranged from quirky to angry and featured multiple inquiries about two subjects the governor largely chose to avoid - hydraulic fracturing and health benefits for laid-off racetrack workers.
A number of pointed questions were left on the table. John from Seneca County asked the governor whether he supported Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman's investigation of Wall Street banks, a topic Mr. Cuomo has not taken a stance on. A questioner asked the governor what he thought about the Occupy Wall Street movement - another sensitive topic. Mr. Cuomo didn't choose that question either.
He didn't engage with Cindy from Glens Falls, who was upset about wage and benefit concessions exacted from state workers represented by the Civil Service Employees Association, a labor union. ''My question to the governor is how can he live with himself after negotiating the CSEA contract,'' Cindy wrote. ''Why do you think you should balance the budget off our backs.''
Nor did he rise to the bait when Don from Syracuse took a shot at his pro-casino politics. ''How can I start a casino?'' he asked. ''Who is to stop Trump or Fox or whoever from turning NY State into Vegas? This is a form of corporate greed.''
The governor's September chat session was the first in a series of discussions with members of his administration and other officials hosted at CitizenConnects, a Web site that the Cuomo administration set up after receiving criticism for lapses in transparency.
The governor told participants in the chat that he and his spokesman, Josh Vlasto, were choosing questions while sitting at Mr. Cuomo's kitchen table, selecting ''ones that are informative, but not hypertechnical or redundant.''
Among the questions the governor did choose to answer, there were a few substantive topics, such as energy and the economy, but also questions like ''What's it like living in the mansion?'' and ''What do you enjoy most about being Governor?''
Asked about the questions unanswered, Mr. Vlasto said, ''The governor answered as many questions as possible.''
The governor's chat in-box was overwhelmed by opponents of the state's tentative plan to allow hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking, a controversial method of drilling for natural gas. The governor acknowledged, in a single posted response on the issue, that ''there are many many questions coming in on hydrofracking,'' but he deferred on the topic to the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, Joe Martens, who had his own subsequent chat session.
That did not satisfy some of his correspondents.
''How is it 'your forum' if we overwhelmingly want to discuss hydrofracking and you refuse to?'' wrote Krys from the Finger Lakes.
And Dorothy from Middlefield said, ''I am so concerned about your 20th Century mentality regarding the use of fossil fuels.''
The governor did not acknowledge the many angry retirees and laid-off workers from the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation, which was closed in 2010. They wrote to complain about his veto of a bill that would have restored their health benefits.
''You have taken away health insurance plans not only from my family, but from all of the people who have spent their lives working for OTB,'' the commenter Shannon wrote. Danny from Queens wrote that his father, ''a 65-year-old leukemia patient'' and former OTB worker, was among those who ''will suffer greatly from this injustice.''
Mr. Cuomo is a popular governor, in a state with a history of corruption, and a number of those who wrote in thanked the governor simply for being competent, like Giovanni from the Bronx, who said simply, ''You're the Best!'' Aliza from Queens said, ''Doing great job, keep it up,'' and Brianne from Millerton said, ''THANKS SO MUCH!!!''
Others were less charitable. Stephen from Rome called the governor ''a dictator and bully.'' And after the governor fielded a question about his lapel pin, which he designed to include the words ''Performance, Integrity, Pride,'' an anonymous commenter wrote in: ''lapel pin Give me a break ????''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (65%); BUDGETS (62%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (52%)

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



57 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Nuclear Program: Choices for Israel and the U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Israel's Last Chance to Strike Iran'' (Op-Ed, March 1):
While Iran's threats, including the annihilation of Israel, have to be taken seriously, it seems to me that Amos Yadlin has the appropriate answer when he writes that ''an Israeli strike against Iran would be a last resort, if all else failed to persuade Iran to abandon its nuclear weapons program.'' 
Now is the time to focus on crippling sanctions. Neither geography nor alliances or time works in Iran's favor. Furthermore, Iran's leadership, despite its overblown rhetoric, shows no signs of opting for self-destruction because the Iranians know that Israel and the United States have the means and the will to inflict devastating damage.
The other options, including pre-emptive strikes by Israel or the United States (with the consequent rise of a nothing-to-lose mentality in Iran), should be held in abeyance.
MERVYN D'SOUZA Edison, N.J., March 1, 2012
To the Editor:
Amos Yadlin's line of reasoning amounts to nothing short of extortion: either the United States agrees to accept full responsibility for the destruction of Iran's nuclear capability, or it will have to live with the consequences of an imminent Israeli strike against Iran.
An Israeli attack on Iran would likely draw the United States into yet another war we can't afford and would cause an increase in oil prices that would have devastating consequences for our struggling economy.
Instead of offering to march in lock step with Israel, President Obama should make it clear to the world that Israel will be acting alone if it decides to attack Iran and that such an attack would mean an end to the substantial American financial, diplomatic and military assistance that Israel clearly takes for granted.
KEN GALAL San Francisco, March 1, 2012
To the Editor:
The relentless Israeli assertion that a nuclear-armed Iran poses an existential threat is transparently illogical. No regime, whatever its rhetoric, has any desire for self-destruction. Iran knows that Israel possesses untold numbers of nuclear warheads, has the means to deliver them and is willing to use them if attacked.
The mullahs who control Iran may indulge in the theater of piety and anti-Semitism, but they are no different from the rest of the world's political leaders; their status gives them immense social and economic privileges that they want to continue enjoying.
An Israeli attack on Iran's diffuse nuclear program would set it back only temporarily, would rally the restive Iranian populace around the government, and would generate even more hostility against Israel around the world.
DAVID HAYDEN Wilton, Conn., March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DISARMAMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



58 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Haunted by the Same Tickets for 31 Years

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON and JEFFREY E. SINGER

 BODY:
For 31 years, Stefan Graff has been haunted by Summons No. 1Q72724926S. Actually, it is that summons and two others that have shadowed Mr. Graff all these years.
Mr. Graff, 52, a lifelong (but currently unemployed) cabdriver, said he incurred the three tickets while driving a livery cab in Jamaica, Queens - on Dec. 2, 1980, according to the summonses.
A police officer issued him the summonses perhaps for - it has been so long, his memory is cloudy on this, and the system no longer has the details -- lacking proper registration, an inspection sticker and livery insurance. 
Mr. Graff said he thought he had paid the fines resulting from the tickets, and yet he found himself on Wednesday afternoon standing in the pouring rain outside the Summons Part of Queens Criminal Court in Kew Gardens.
''They keep coming back from the archive to haunt me,'' he said, adding that the tickets had led to bench warrants for his arrest and most recently to a 36-hour stay in jail for what would have been a routine desk-appearance ticket for drinking a beer in public.
-Mr. Graff, who lives in a public housing project on the Lower East Side and is divorced with no children, held a printout of a record of his 31-year-old tickets, which listed him as having pleaded guilty on Jan. 29, 1981.
But a problem with the tickets surfaced in 2003, and he went to a warrants division in Manhattan to clear it up, he said. There, detectives put him in handcuffs - ''They said it was a formality,'' he said -- and took him in front of a judge who said the tickets were so old that the issuing officer had retired. The judge gave Mr. Graff a disposition affirming that the tickets were cleared up, which Mr. Graff carried around every day for several years.
In 2009, he was arrested for carrying a pocket knife - ''People in my neighborhood know I drive a cab and carry a lot of cash, and I've been mugged before,'' Mr. Graff said - and he received three years' probation and lost his hackney license, he said.
-Then three weeks ago, he said, he got a summons for violating the open liquor container law, for having a beer in a building vestibule on the Bowery.
The officer who issued him that summons said that because there was an outstanding bench warrant stemming from the old traffic violations, he would have to be held in the Manhattan Detention Complex, known as the Tombs, and see a judge the next day.
''There was nowhere to sit,'' he said. ''There were three big guys from Montenegro in there, and they said, 'We're tired, we want to lay down.' They threw the other guys off the bench to lay down.''
On Wednesday, he stepped up to the clerk's window in Queens and handed his papers to a clerk who looked to be in his mid-50s. ''I got these tickets in 1980,'' Mr. Graff told the clerk.
The clerk was unfazed. He said, ''I was working here then - I started in 1979.'' He punched in the ticket numbers, and sure enough, they came up on the computer.
The clerk said that motorists come in fairly regularly to deal with decades-old outstanding summonses.
''I have a cabinet full of these things,'' he said, pointing across the room. ''If an individual doesn't handle a summons, they eventually catch up with them in Motor Vehicles.''
Mr. Graff said, ''I need to get them resolved so I don't get dragged through the system again.''
He told the clerk, ''I don't have any money; I'm on public assistance.''
-The clerk waived the fees and gave Mr. Graff a disposition affirming that the tickets had been cleared.
''I have to walk around with this indefinitely,'' Mr. Graff said, holding the document. ''I have to get one of those pouches you wear on your waist.''
As he walked outside, he said he remained skeptical.
''Tell you the truth, I still don't believe they're really off the books,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stefan Graff outside Queens Criminal Court in Kew Gardens, where he tried to resolve three summonses from 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); PROBATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



59 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Holding a Mirror to Ike, and to Ourselves

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat is right that Frank Gehry's populist design for the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial diminishes rather than elevates Eisenhower (''The Greatness of Ike,'' column, Feb. 26).
Mr. Douthat's defense of Eisenhower's presidency as one marked by greatness ''manifested in the crises he defused and the mistakes he did not make'' may, however, have the ironic consequence of buttressing the myth of Eisenhower the cipher that he seeks to topple.
Eisenhower's influence on the politics of the 1950s prompted William F. Buckley to found National Review ''to read Dwight Eisenhower out of the conservative movement.'' That Eisenhower could elicit such a vinegary comment from Mr. Buckley suggests that he stood for something. That something was ''Modern Republicanism,'' or what Eisenhower referred to as being ''conservative when it comes to money and liberal when it comes to human beings.'' 
A monument that accurately depicts Eisenhower's greatness and his continued relevance for American politics might be not only a fitting tribute to the man, but also a reminder of what conservatism can be.
RONALD P. SEYB Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Feb. 26, 2012
The writer is an associate professor of government at Skidmore College.
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat makes the point that President Eisenhower ''was not a man for grand projects, bold crusades or world-historical gambles.'' Rather, ''his greatness was manifested in the crises he defused and the mistakes he did not make.''
This assertion would surprise at least two countries, if not more. Eisenhower's major initiative from the onset of his administration was to ''roll back Communism.'' To accomplish that goal, he authorized the overthrow of two democratically elected governments, in Iran in 1953 and Guatemala in 1954.
The Iranian coup reinstated the shah, who was subsequently deposed by Iranian fundamentalists who today pose a perilous nuclear challenge in the Middle East. The regime change in Guatemala led to a civil war that killed over 200,000 people and set back the cause of democracy in Central America for decades.
''Masterly inaction,'' Mr. Douthat claims. Some mastery, some inaction!
STEPHEN SCHLESINGER New York, Feb. 26, 2012
The writer is a co-author of ''Bitter Fruit,'' about the C.I.A. coup in Guatemala.
To the Editor:
As an Eisenhower admirer, I must take issue with a comment by Ross Douthat. ''He was not a man for grand projects, bold crusades or world-historical gambles,'' Mr. Douthat writes.
Oh, really? The Interstate Highway System, which bears Eisenhower's name and came out of his military understanding of how a modern highway system was critical to national defense, might in some minds be considered the grandest project inspired by any president in the 20th century except Franklin D. Roosevelt.
It was Ike who marshaled the country to respond to the Sputnik crisis by concentrating resources on education, science and engineering, allowing his successor to make the then-outlandish claim that we would put a man on the Moon and return him safely to Earth within the decade.
Through the eight years of his presidency, Eisenhower never lowered the over 90 percent tax rate on millionaires. It was one of the reasons he could spend on major social and economic programs and still turn over balanced budgets and even surpluses to future presidents.
Mr. Douthat suggests that Eisenhower merely stewarded America through major events without putting his hands on any of them. I disagree, and I would argue that history does, too -- loudly.
KEN HARNISCH Bayside, Queens, Feb. 26, 2012
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat bemoans the fact that Eisenhower is not recognized as a truly great American president. Perhaps it is because so many of us remember how he failed to lead during the civil rights revolution. Rather than using the bully pulpit to rally the American people to overcome the moral rot eating away at the nation's soul, he did all in his power to avoid and delay.
MARTIN EDELMAN Brooklyn, Feb. 26, 2012
The writer is professor emeritus of political science at the University at Albany.
To the Editor:
Perhaps Ross Douthat missed the point of the design by Frank Gehry. A barefoot boy from Kansas can become a great military leader and president. It's the promise and premise of this country. The Eisenhower memorial celebrates the greatness of a nation through the greatness of one man.
ZINO VOGIATZIS Timonium, Md., Feb. 26, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); CIVIL WAR (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



60 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 5033 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Jubilation Rumination: Life, Real and Imagined' (through Sept. 2) Having escaped the ugly, West 53rd Street tomb of a building it inhabited from 2001 to 2011, the American Folk Art Museum has reoccupied its old space on Lincoln Square. This wonderful show of about 100 works from the permanent collection samples all the varieties of artistic expression under the museum's purview, from portraits and quilts by anonymous craftspeople to otherworldly fantasies envisioned by so-called Outsiders like Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. The revival of this irreplaceable institution is cause of rejoicing. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Asia Society and Museum: 'Sarah Sze: Infinite Line' (through March 25) Promising a new angle on Sarah Sze's mesmerizing, minutely detailed installations, this midcareer solo reveals that Ms. Sze, who is Chinese-American, has been profoundly influenced by many forms of Asian art. It also includes some of her rarely exhibited drawings and encourages you to see her three-dimensional artworks as drawings in space. Implicitly, it de-emphasizes the prosaic nature of her art materials: the cotton swabs, toothpicks, bottle caps and other throwaway objects that she fashions, with gee-whiz structural ingenuity, into rambling landscapes and galactic spirals. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
- The Cloisters: 'The Game of Kings: Medieval Ivory Chessmen From the Isle of Lewis' (through April 22) In 1831, a farmer on the Isle of Lewis, the largest island of the Outer Hebrides, discovered a lost cache of medieval chess pieces. Today, thanks to ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,'' in which Harry and Ron play with magically animated replicas of them, the Lewis Chessmen are world famous. On tour from the British Museum, these adorable, bug-eyed little kings, queens, bishops, knights and warders, each beautifully carved from walrus ivory, are wonderful to examine up close. You don't have to be a chess player or a Harry Potter fan to love them. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Frick Collection: 'A Passion for Drawings: Charles Ryskamp's Bequest to the Frick Collection' (through April 8) Modern museums have their origins in the German wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities: collections of objects assembled by European aristocrats. The cabinet at the Frick doesn't hold the same range of marvels, but the current show of 10 drawings donated by Charles Ryskamp, a former Frick director, functions almost like a wunderkammer. There is a botanical watercolor by Pierre-Joseph Redoute, who worked for Marie Antoinette before the French Revolution and Empress Josephine afterward; a watercolor by Eugene Delacroix from his first journey to North Africa; a William Blake drawing created during a seance; and George Stubbs's portrait of Warren Hastings, first governor-general of India under British colonial rule, as Hastings was being prosecuted for corruption. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Martha Schwendener)
- Frick Collection: 'Renoir, Impressionism and Full-Length Painting' (through May 13) Impressionism, like fashion, is dedicated to the fleeting sensation: this moment's light, this season's dress. Yet the works in this exhibition, which transforms the Frick's mohair-upholstered East Gallery into a runway for Renoir's soigne Parisians, don't at first register as Impressionist. With their traditional portrait format and imposing scale, they seem at odds with the modest plein-air paintings that define the movement. Central among them is the Frick's own Renoir, ''La Promenade'' (1875-6), in which a stylish young woman guides two equally well-dressed little girls along a public garden path. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
Frick Collection: 'White Gold: Highlights From the Arnhold Collection of Meissen Porcelain' (through April 29) Porcelain lovers will not want to miss this show of domestic ware made in Germany in the early 1700s, but the big news is the new wing, the Portico Gallery, that it inaugurates. The Frick has transformed an outdoor colonnade into an indoor exhibition space. Floor-to-ceiling windows enclose a long, narrow space that feels bigger and airier than its actual 850 square feet. In the small rotunda at one end, a life-size, nude Diana by Jean-Antoine Houdon looks out over the traffic on Fifth Avenue with divine indifference. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
- Guggenheim Museum: 'John Chamberlain: Choices' (through May 13) The postwar sculptor John Chamberlain, who died in December, manipulated crushed car parts into abstract clusters that are both gorgeous and terrifying. As installed on the Guggenheim Museum's curved ramps for this full-dress retrospective, they look, inevitably, like mangled wrecks on a speedway. Yet the show goes to great lengths to extricate Mr. Chamberlain from what he called ''the car-crash syndrome.'' It includes work made from foam, aluminum foil, paper and plexiglass, and it emphasizes the collage process behind the metal sculptures rather than the material that went into them. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
International Center of Photography: 'The Loving Story: Photographs by Grey Villet' (through May 6) Richard and Mildred Loving, an interracial couple from Virginia whose marriage prompted a benchmark 1967 Supreme Court ruling overturning state miscegenation laws, are portrayed not as political activists, but as political heroes who fell into history by accident. The story began on July 11, 1958, when a Virginia county sheriff and two deputies entered the Lovings' bedroom at 2 a.m. and arrested them, saying they had violated the Racial Integrity Act. Mr. Villet's images represent the heyday of social documentary, but also the midcentury photo-essay format. Ms. Loving later became a conscious activist when, on the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling, she made a statement supporting the right to marry, whether ''black or white, young or old, gay or straight.'' 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Schwendener)
- International Center of Photography: 'Weegee: Murder Is My Business' (through Sept. 2) From the home of Weegee's voluminous archive, the latest exhibition about this great documentary photographer (1899-1968) revisits his frenetic, formative first decade of work, starting in 1935, when his often sensational images of murder and mayhem appeared in New York's daily newspapers. His penchant for self-promotion; the work of his competitors and peers; the evolution of tabloid journalism; and the great city that was both his subject and his audience are emphasized, with fresh curatorial precision and deftly used touch screens. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Roberta Smith)
- Jewish Museum: 'The Radical Camera: New York's Photo League, 1936-1951' (through March 25) One of many artistic casualties of the McCarthy-era blacklists was the Photo League, a New York school and salon for amateur and professional photographers. Its members -- among them Weegee, Lisette Model and Aaron Siskind -- are now reunited in this stirring show, which traces the group's history through some 145 vintage photographs. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Art in an Age of Revolution: Fu Baoshi (1904-1965)' (through April 15) Serene on the surface but less so underneath, the museum's first full-dress retrospective of a 20th-century Chinese painter is as much about history as art history. It focuses on an artist, teacher and art historian who helped preserve the ancient tradition of ink painting and then struggled to make it relevant under the Communists, bending it toward propaganda, introducing a new degree of realism and making frequent use of the color red. While fascinating, the show leaves you wondering what he might have accomplished under less encumbered circumstances. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rembrandt and Degas: Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man' (through May 20) This lovely small show, focused on self-portrait paintings and prints, proposes that Rembrandt was a greater influence on Degas than has generally been recognized. Degas as a young man studied Rembrandt prints, copied at least one and made others imitating Rembrandt-type effects. But a group of four captivating self-portraits at the heart of the show -- two by each artist painted at age 23 -- suggests that the men were temperamentally about as alike as a cat and a dog. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Renaissance Portrait From Donatello to Bellini' (through March 18) This magisterial, intensely thought-provoking show presents about 160 works by the most celebrated masters of 15th-century Italian painting and sculpture. It was a time when ancient Greek and Roman precedents inspired artists to create extraordinarily lively images of people in two and three dimensions. The dialogue between painting and sculpture is especially intriguing. Desiderio da Settignano's marble bust of a lovely young woman with a strikingly expressive, coquettish expression creates an illusion of fleeting real life that painters could only envy. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Spies in the House of Art: Photography, Film, and Video' (through Aug. 26) This exhibition of 17 contemporary works inspired by museums doesn't mention Theodor Adorno by name, but it nods toward his ideas in a wall text, which jokes that artists often see museums as ''mausoleums, places where art goes to die.'' Andrea Fraser's video ''Museum Highlights: A Gallery Talk'' (1989) leans toward the anti-museum view, while a 16mm film by Nashashibi/Skaer, the duo of British artists Rosalind Nashashibi and Lucy Skaer, made by gliding through the Met in the dark with a camera and a flash strobe, treats the museum like a darkened crypt. Lutz Bacher's video offers another museum tour, while the museum appears in poetically distorted form in photographs by John Pilson, Tim Davis and Lothar Baumgarten. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Storytelling in Japanese Art' (through May 6) An uncannily contemporary sense of fluidity, action and emotion courses throughout this captivating exhibition, which traces the Japanese penchant for narrative through hand scrolls, hanging scrolls and books, on to the expanded field of folding screens. The sublime 13th-century ''Illustrated Legends of the Kitano Tenjin Shrine'' alone is a must-see: its five hand scrolls constitute one of the Met's greatest paintings and have never before been shown together. Return visits are merited. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
- MoMA PS1: 'Henry Taylor' (through April 9) Mr. Taylor, who lives in Los Angeles, paints fast, loose and sensuously on canvases great and small. Portraiture is his work's center of gravity, African-American life his subject. With exuberant generosity, he portrays friends, relatives, acquaintances from the art world and off the street and heroes of sports and politics. Along the way, he takes in downbeat cityscapes patrolled by cop cars and envisions allegories of spiritual trauma in the Land of the Free. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Rembrandt's World: Dutch Drawings From the Clement C. Moore Collection' (through April 29) You won't see much of Rembrandt in this exhibition of about 90 works on paper, which includes just four drawings attributed to that master. What the show lacks in star power, though, it makes up for with a keen, all-encompassing look at life in the Dutch Republic during its Golden Age (which corresponds, roughly, to the 17th century). Seascapes assert naval dominance; genre scenes show bustling markets and tipsy taverngoers; botanical illustrations tell cautionary tales about economic speculation. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Dan Flavin: Drawing' (through July 1) The artist Dan Flavin (1933-96) is so closely identified with his signature medium, the fluorescent light sculpture, that a show of his drawings is bound to surprise. And it's particularly exciting to find that Flavin was not only a devoted draftsman but also a freewheeling polymath on paper. The Morgan's show includes drawings from Flavin's personal collection, which encompasses Hokusai, Mondrian and the Hudson River School and will completely change the way you see his art. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- El Museo del Barrio: 'Testimonios: 100 Years of Popular Expression' (through May 6) The city's premier museum of Latin culture explores its holdings in urban folk art, so-called handicraft and other forms of vernacular expression and comes up with visual gold. Among the kaleidoscopic displays are Puerto Rican santos and the winsome cellophane animals, birds and insects of Gregorio Marzan (1906-97). Splendid textiles include Haitian voodoo banners; densely appliqued molas and the patchwork scenes called arpilleras, with which Chilean women kept hope alive for disappeared relatives during the regime of Augusto Pinochet. An intoxicating, if sometimes bittersweet, vitality is revealed. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence' (through March 26) This timely and resonant survey familiarizes American audiences with the spare, selfless achievement of this pioneering Croatian artist, born in Zagreb in 1949. Conceptual in style, photo- and performance-based in approach, political in motivation, ardently and precisely feminist, her work makes use of materials at hand -- personal photographs, women's magazines, state-sponsored television, even government surveillance -- to dissect different forms of power and illuminate the plight of the powerless, while also presaging familiar developments in appropriation art and relational aesthetics to a startling degree. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Print/Out' and 'Printin'' ' (through May 14) ''Print/Out'' presents printed works by 40 artists and artist groups from the museum's permanent collection. Produced over the past two decades, most involve public modes of address borrowed from the worlds of advertizing and design and concepts promoting critical suspicion of mainstream media, culture and society. ''Printin','' a related print-focused exhibition, is full of surprises addressing multiple aspects of human experience. With fearless eclecticism, it ranges from a Krazy Kat cartoon by George Herriman to Puritan stocks cut from cardboard by Cady Noland. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Diego Rivera: Murals for the Museum of Modern Art' (through May 14) This show reunites five of the eight free-standing frescoes that Rivera made for a 1931-2 exhibition at MoMA. Some of these paintings seem ripped from current headlines. In ''The Uprising,'' protesting laborers are brutally suppressed by uniformed soldiers; the stratified New York cityscape of ''Frozen Assets'' tops a bank vault with a crowded homeless shelter. Timely as they are, they lack the multitudinous energy and narrative sweep of Rivera's permanently sited murals. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Cindy Sherman' (through June 11) Aided by ever-shifting arrays of costumes, wigs, makeup, props, masks and prosthetic body parts, the leading light of postmodern photo-based art spent nearly four decades turning photography against itself, laying waste to a lexicon of mostly female stereotypes and exposing both the tyranny and the inner lives of the images of women that bombard and shape us all at every turn. This retrospective could have been larger, more clearly organized and less familiar, but its strengths, like the achievement it honors, are undeniable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of the City of New York: 'Cecil Beaton: The New York Years' (through April 22) A British dandy in the Wildean mold, Beaton photographed fashion for Vogue and Vanity Fair; made photographic portraits of rich, famous and glamorous people; drew and painted cartoons, caricatures, fashion illustrations and theatrical sets with a deft hand; published six volumes of his diaries; and won two Oscars for his costume and set designs, for the Hollywood movies ''Gigi'' and ''My Fair Lady.'' He spent much time in New York, and this entertaining exhibition surveys what he did here during his five-decade career. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
Neue Galerie: 'The Ronald S. Lauder Collection: Selections From the 3rd Century B.C. to the 20th Century/Germany, Austria and France' (through April 2) Since it opened 10 years ago, the Neue Galerie has stayed true to its narrowly focused mission: to showcase German and Austrian art and design of the early 20th century. But its anniversary exhibition of the collection of the co-founder Ronald S. Lauder covers much more territory. In the dark-wood-paneled gallery on the second floor, for instance, six paintings by Cezanne preside over an imposing installation of arms and armor and 15th- and 16th-century German and Netherlandish portraiture. And a third-floor gallery of Picasso, Matisse and Brancusi amounts to a mini-Museum of Modern Art improbably wedged into a Carrere-and-Hastings town house. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
New Museum: 'The Ungovernables: 2012 New Museum Triennial' (through April 22) The second edition of this survey of young talent, organized by Eungie Joo, is more international than the last one, with artists from Asia and South America and collectives from Africa and the Middle East. Much of the work is made up of small, light formal gestures, unemphatic in tone and socially engaged, though in an unperturbed way that accommodates friendliness and wit. There is also a schedule of performances on- and off-site. An Israeli collective, Public Movement, will stage topical debates around town. Yet another collective, House of Natural Fiber, from Indonesia, plans to demonstrate technology for producing alcoholic beverages and electronic music simultaneously. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
Noguchi Museum: 'Civic Action: A Vision for Long Island City' (through April 22) Several artists suggest their visions for the future of Long Island City, ranging from site-specific to silly. Natalie Jeremijenko's ''feral robots'' sniff out pollutants in contaminated soil, and she suggests hula hoops filled with wildflower seeds. Rirkrit Tiravanija proposes growing ''drivable'' grass along a section of Broadway, and Mary Miss focuses on four giant smokestacks that tower over the area and imagines them as an eco-feedback center registering environmental changes visible to the community. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Schwendener)
- Studio Museum in Harlem: 'The Bearden Project' (through March 11) Of the many New York City events celebrating the Romare Bearden centennial year, the Studio Museum has come up with the best in this sparkling cross-generational shout-out to the artist. In addition to a small handful of superb works by Bearden himself, the show is made up of tributes by a hundred contemporary artists, old and young, who together extend Bearden's cosmopolitan, griot-to-the-global-village spirit into the future. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Uptown
'Hats: An Anthology by Stephen Jones' (through April 15) This wide-ranging survey was assembled by one of the leading milliners in Britain and draws heavily on the incomparable collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum. It includes fascinating historical material; a survey of 20th- and 21st-century headgear at its most creative (and often most frivolous); and rather too many efforts by the show's organizer. But what's good is great: for example, a platterlike feather number from 18th-century London. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
John Miller: 'Suburban Past Time' (through March 10) Mr. Miller's latest installation incorporates metal filing cabinets painted in gaudy, hot-rod finishes; fake rocks and trees of the sort that disguise pool equipment; and black-and-white wallpaper printed with forgettable architecture (an apartment block in Berlin, a resort in Majorca). On Saturdays two people inhabit this sterile Anytown, not interacting much with each other or with the gallery visitors. A separate project, a series of animations, fuses loneliness and tastelessness in more provocative ways; here Mr. Miller and a collaborator -- the online artist and curator Takuji Kogo -- set text from personal ads to robotic-sounding digital voice recordings. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Elaine Reichek: 'Ariadne's Thread' (through March 24) Ariadne, the clever heroine of Greek myth whose ball of thread helped Theseus escape from the Minotaur's labyrinth, makes an ideal subject for Elaine Reichek (who has been working with thread since the 1970s and has a large-scale tapestry in the current Whitney Biennial). In this show she uses digital and hand embroidery and silk-screen process to reproduce a wide range of images and literary quotations relating to Ariadne. Keeping this exercise from becoming pedantic, Ms. Reicheck finds elements of the myth where we least expect them: in comic books and the film ''The Shining,'' for instance. Nicole Klagsbrun Project Space, 534 West 24th Street, (212) 243-3335, nicoleklagsbrun.com. (Rosenberg)
- Terry Winters: 'Cricket Music, Tessellation Figures, & Notebook' (through April 14) Terry Winters's new, vigorously painted abstractions are ravishing. As if to defend against anti-hedonist judgment, Mr. Winters also offers a series of notebook collages combining scientific and quasi-scientific imagery in Matthew Marks's small exhibition space at 502 West 22nd Street. They are interesting, but the paintings of flickering, warping, spiraling and tunneling diamond patterns in hot and cool colors are the real trip. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 and 502 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)
- Catherine Yass: 'Lighthouse' (through March 17) Five miles off the English coast rises from the sea the Royal Sovereign lighthouse. Its boxy white cabin seems precariously balanced on a single concrete pillar. The light tower tops out at 90 feet above sea level. This is the subject of ''Lighthouse,'' a spectacular, 12-minute movie by Ms. Yass, a British specialist in the sublime. We explore the edifice as if through a disembodied eye from near and far and above and below. It is a kinetically and poetically thrilling ride. Galerie Lelong, 528 West 26th Street, (212) 315-0470, galerielelong.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Other
'Gran Fury: Ready My Lips' (through March 17) A collective that grew out of Act Up and took its name from a New York City police car, Gran Fury existed from the end of 1989 until the mid-'90s. The political climate of that period informs the show, as well as downtown Manhattan's landscape of graffiti, posters and stickers. ''Kissing Doesn't Kill'' (1990), a series of posters displayed on buses, defied contemporary claims that AIDS could be spread by kissing, while ''Read My Lips'' turned George H. W. Bush's famous campaign line into a homoerotic provocation. The haircuts and clothes in the works are dated, but the sentiments overlap powerfully with current activism and the Occupy movement. 80WSE, New York University, 80 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-5747, steinhardt.nyu.edu/80wse. (Schwendener)
'Soto: Paris and Beyond: 1950-1970' (through March 31) Once a figure of international renown, Jesus Soto is now mostly remembered as a minor Modernist who worked in the overlap among hard-edge abstraction, kinetic art and Op Art. This show will not precipitate a run to revive his reputation, but it does open an intriguing window on the mid-20th-century philosophical landscape of Modern art. Still perceptually arresting are constructions from the '50s, in which you view abstract compositions through similarly painted plexiglass panels. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
Ryan Sullivan (through March 17) The abstract paintings in this stylish and over-full New York gallery debut bend over backward to avoid the conventional, supposedly old-school ploys like adroit brushwork, replacing such familiar tactics with carefully controlled processes of sprayed, poured, festering, rippled and sliding paint that bespeak randomness and chance while evoking Photo Realism, topographical maps and even trompe l'oeil. Eminently promising, they nonetheless look excessively refined and skillful, and more mannered than they should be. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net. (Smith)
Out of Town
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts: 'Henry Ossawa Tanner: Modern Spirit' (through April 15) Tanner (1859-1937) was the first African-American artist to achieve international fame in modern times. After permanently expatriating to France in 1891, he found success as a painter of luminous pictures of biblical subjects. In this informative survey of his career, one piece stands out: an Annunciation in which the angel Gabriel appears to Mary as a burst of yellow light. It is a painting of amazing grace. 118 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, (215) 972-7600, pafa.org. (Johnson)
Neuberger Museum of Art: 'American Vanguards: Graham, Davis, Gorky, de Kooning, and Their Circle, 1927-1942' (through April 29) This exhibition, organized by the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass., reunites the Four Musketeers of New York painting: John Graham, Arshile Gorky, Stuart Davis and Willem de Kooning. For a time -- the 1930s, give or take a few years -- these artists linked arms to defend modern American art against the dreariness and insularity of the Depression. One might see this show as an expansion of the first few galleries of the Museum of Modern Art's recent de Kooning retrospective, with their eerie still lifes and fidgety figure paintings that seemed to collapse abstraction and representation. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Rosenberg)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Van Gogh Up Close' (through May 6) Nature both inspired van Gogh's extraordinary art and calmed his perpetually jangled nerves, and this modest yet groundbreaking show of 45 often small, unfamiliar canvases -- devoted almost entirely to landscapes -- examines his crucial connection to its bounty. The selection cuts a narrow, well-organized path through his art, examining the terrains he painted, the often close-up viewpoints he used and the shifting topographies of his paint textures, leading us to the fullness of his achievement along a fresh and eye-opening route. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Zoe Strauss: Ten Years' (through April 22) In 2001 the artist Zoe Strauss came up with an unusual idea for an exhibition. It would take place under an elevated section of Interstate 95, in her home city, Philadelphia, and would consist of photographs mounted on the columns that supported the highway. It would be a recurring event, appearing yearly over a decade, and would be free and accessible to the public. That series, ''I-95,'' is at the core of ''Zoe Strauss: Ten Years,'' an engaging, parameter-expanding exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and on billboards around the city. In it, the highway links sweeping literary ambition and local interest, lyrical and documentary photography, portraiture and the urban landscape. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
George Ortman: 'Constructions: 1949-2011' (closes on Saturday) The main reason to see this 62-year, 15-work survey of George Ortman's work is the radiant relief painting ''Tales of Love,'' a lost masterpiece from 1959 whose checkered composition of red, yellow and blue with touches of white combines elements of game boards, flags and quilts. It also literalizes the innovations of Jasper Johns's early work and points them toward proto-Minimalism, especially the early works of Donald Judd, and expands the understanding of a crucial turning point in the history of postwar American art. Algus Greenspon, 71 Morton Street, West Village, (212) 255-7872, algusgreenspon.com. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire From Leonardo to Levine' (closes on Sunday) It is not nice to make fun of other people, but it is hard to resist. This fascinating and often amusing show presents about 160 drawings and prints from six centuries in which men and women appear ugly, weird, venal and foolish. The show shies away from troublemaking work by contemporary artists, but examples of exceptional draftsmanship and satiric imagination from the past abound. Watercolors by the great British cartoonists James Gillray and Thomas Rowlandson alone make a visit rewarding. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE RENAISSANCE PORTRAIT FROM DONATELLO TO BELLINI': (through March 18) This magisterial, intensely thought-provoking show presents about 160 works by the most celebrated masters of 15th-century Italian painting and sculpture (among them ''Federigo da Montefeltro and His Son Guidobaldo,'' above, a 1476-7 work by Pietro di Spagna). It was a time when ancient Greek and Roman precedents inspired artists to create extraordinarily lively images of people in two and three dimensions. The dialogue between painting and sculpture is especially intriguing. Desiderio da Settignano's marble bust of a lovely young woman with a strikingly expressive, coquettish expression creates an illusion of fleeting real life that painters could only envy. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) (PHOTOGRAPH BY GALLERIA NAZIONALE DELLE MARCHE, URBINO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); BOARD GAMES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



61 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Helped by Springlike Weather, Retail Sales Beat Estimates

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
February sales at retailers added to the signs that the American consumer is feeling more secure.
Sales at stores open at least a year, also known as same-store sales, increased by 4.7 percent in February, according to the Thomson Reuters tally of 18 retailers. That was far bigger than the 3.4 percent increase analysts had expected.
Consumer confidence for February was the highest level in a year, the Conference Board said on Tuesday, and the February sales seemed to echo that sentiment. 
February is when retailers start to sell spring merchandise, so good early sales for spring clothing and accessories is a promising sign.
Excluding estimates for drugstores, which do not report results for another week, Thomson Reuters said same-store sales increased by 6.4 percent for the apparel, department and discount stores that did report.
''We saw good consumer response to our early spring deliveries,'' Terry J. Lundgren, chairman and chief executive of Macy's, where same-store sales rose 4.6 percent, said in a statement. That ''bodes well for the months ahead.''
The retailers' announcements added to earnings results from Lowe's and Home Depot in the last several days that showed consumers were shopping for springtime products. Both home improvement stores said that sales were higher than expected, as consumers used the warm winter to start home improvement tasks.
''There's a very positive reaction to spring product, and product I've seen, from outdoor furniture to women's and men's apparel, the color palettes are very bright, there's a lot of pattern, there's a lot of stripes,'' said Keith Jelinek, a director in the global retail practice at AlixPartners, a consulting firm. ''Folks are willing to spend a little bit of money on their home, and on accessorizing their outfits with additional nice pieces.''
The best results Thursday came from a range of retailers. The Buckle and Zumiez, both stores aimed at teenagers, reported increases -- 14.8 percent for the Buckle and 14.2 percent for Zumiez. Nordstrom reported a same-store sales increase of 10.2 percent, versus analysts' forecasts of 5.6 percent; the department store attributed the big increase in part to a shoe sale held in the month. The discounters TJX and Ross Stores rounded out the top five, with both reporting that same-store sales grew 9 percent over the last year.
Those reporting the worst same-store sales results also represented a mix of teenage-oriented stores and discounters. Kohl's, which has been struggling to find its footing in the last few months, reported a decrease of 0.8 percent; analysts had expected flat same-store sales. Kohl's said sales of shoes were particularly slow. A competitor, Target, reported a 7 percent increase in same-store sales, and said that visits to its stores were up, and that the amount people spending also rose.
One of the biggest surprises came from Gap, which has had a long string of disappointing same-store sales results. Its same-store sales jumped by 4 percent, while analysts had expected them to fall by 1.4 percent. That was pulled higher by results at its Banana Republic division, where same-store sales increased 12 percent; at the Gap brand stores, sales increased just 1 percent, but that was still better than the 2.2 percent decline analysts had predicted.
''Customers responded well to our spring product,'' said Glenn K. Murphy, chairman and chief executive of Gap, in a statement.
For all the sunny springtime news, retailers and analysts noted a couple of factors that could hurt profits in the future.
At Limited Brands, where same-store sales grew 8 percent, planned promotions for the Victoria's Secret stores around Valentine's Day meant lower margins, and Limited said its Bath & Body Works stores were dealing with more discounts and higher prices.
And Mr. Jelinek said that an increase in gas prices could spell trouble.
''Most of the price increases didn't happen until the end of February, and I don't think they've really taken a toll yet. If you put it into dollars and cents, it will impact the consumer by 7 to 10 dollars a fill-up,'' he said. While consumer confidence was up, and the job picture was improving, ''the consumer's eye is still on where they stand in their own personal situation, and I think the majority of consumers haven't felt the impact yet'' of an improving economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Macy's shoppers in Manhattan. Like a lot of retailers, Macy's beat forecasts in February as its same-store sales rose 4.6 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Retail Sales for February: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Feb. 25, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: Company reports
 Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); SAME STORE SALES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); TEENS MARKET (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING (70%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%)

COMPANY: ROSS STORES INC (56%); BUCKLE INC (52%)

TICKER: ROST (NASDAQ) (56%); BKE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (56%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (52%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN LUNDGREN (52%); TERRY J LUNDGREN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



62 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: More Americans Rejecting Marriage In 50s and Beyond

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
On the day she decided to sell her wedding ring, Katie Dunn tucked the gleaming band into a Ziploc bag. The ring had been designed for her nearly two decades earlier, with swirls of yellow and white gold symbolizing the romance she had prayed would endure. But as she approached her 60s, her dreams and her marriage dissolved in resentment and regret.
''I wasn't sentimental,'' said Ms. Dunn, 55, who sold her ring last summer to a jeweler near her hometown of Denmark, Me. ''I was like, it's time to let this go.''
And with that, she joined the growing number of men and women in their 50s and 60s who are opting out of marriage and venturing into old age on their own. 
Over the past 20 years, the divorce rate among baby boomers has surged by more than 50 percent, even as divorce rates over all have stabilized nationally. At the same time, more adults are remaining single. The shift is changing the traditional portrait of older Americans: About a third of adults ages 46 through 64 were divorced, separated or had never been married in 2010, compared with 13 percent in 1970, according to an analysis of recently released census data conducted by demographers at Bowling Green State University, in Ohio.
Sociologists expect those numbers to rise sharply in coming decades as younger people, who have far lower rates of marriage than their elders, move into middle age.
Susan L. Brown, co-director of the National Center for Family & Marriage Research at Bowling Green State, said the trend would transform the lives of many older people.
The elderly, who have traditionally relied on spouses for their care, will increasingly struggle to fend for themselves. And federal and local governments will have to shoulder much of the cost of their care. Unmarried baby boomers are five times more likely to live in poverty than their married counterparts, statistics show. They are also three times as likely to receive food stamps, public assistance or disability payments.
''We can't just say that older people don't get divorced or that middle-aged people won't grow old alone,'' said Dr. Brown, who analyzed the census data with I-Fen Lin, an associate professor of sociology at Bowling Green State. The research was published online in The Gerontologist. ''Now we actually need to pay attention to it, not only to the factors that precipitate it, but also to the consequences,'' Dr. Brown said.
The surge in the number of older, unmarried Americans has been driven by several factors, including longevity, economics and evolving social mores, according to sociologists.
People are living longer, and many couples in their 50s and 60s -- faced with the prospect of a decade or more in unhappy marriages -- are reluctant to stay the course. Women, who are increasingly financially independent, are more willing and able to go it alone.
And many baby boomers, who came of age during the sexual revolution of the 1960s and '70s, feel less social pressure to marry or stay married than their parents and grandparents did. (Only about 17 percent of adults over 64 in 2010 were divorced, separated or had never been married, census data show.) Being divorced or single later in life also no longer carries the stigma that it did for previous generations.
Even as they mourn their marriages and worry about financial security and retirement, many divorced people describe a sense of liberation. Ms. Dunn, who has two children, wept through her divorce proceedings. She and her husband, a carpenter whose business was battered by the recession, grew apart after 18 years of marriage, despite their efforts to reconcile. ''I always wanted to be with someone for the long haul,'' she said.
But during this winter on her own, she has treasured her time alone, taking time to meditate on quiet weekday mornings and going on hiking trips with friends through the snowy mountains.
Robert Dellaert, 55, who moved to Florida from California to be closer to his mother after he and his wife split, started a seaplane tourism business once he got used to life on his own. He also met and moved in with his current girlfriend.
Mr. Dellaert is in growing company. In 2010, about 12 percent of unmarried adults ages 50 through 64 were living together but not married, up from 7 percent in 2000, census data show. ''Making a new start really gave me a lot of joy,'' he said.
Most unmarried baby boomers are living alone, however, and many are struggling to adjust to new worries about the future. Some are grappling with the ailments of older age. Others are mourning the loss of spouses and the collapse of social circles that for decades had revolved around their married friends.
Heidi Williams, 51, who was supported by disability checks and her husband's salary, had to find a part-time job after she was divorced last year. She has a genetic form of emphysema, which she discovered in her 40s, and relies on an oxygen concentrator to get through the day.
She has come to terms with the breakup of her 19-year marriage -- ''In some respects, it was the best decision,'' she says -- but she worries about the years to come. She is raising two teenage children and has far too many bills to save for retirement.
''In the back of my mind, I'm thinking, 'What is going to happen to me?' '' said Ms. Williams, who works as a customer-service representative from her home in Elizabethtown, Ky. ''I think about that every day: one day very soon that may be me in a walker. But for right now, I just kind of tamp down the screaming voices inside of me. Whatever happens is going to happen.''
Laura Stillman, 62, a sales manager at a television station in Raleigh, N.C., who was recently divorced after 27 years of marriage, fills her free time with yoga, tennis, swimming and socializing with friends. She has also gone out on a few dates. But she still misses the companionship of her marriage and worries that she may have to hire a nurse someday if she falls ill, since she no longer has a husband to count on.
''It makes me very sad,'' said Ms. Stillman, who has several friends who have recently divorced. ''Maybe as a society we don't fight hard enough to stay together anymore.''
William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, warns that many unmarried baby boomers will confront greater economic hardships than their married parents and grandparents, and their married counterparts. Many members of this generation, which has been battered by the recession, have fewer children and thinner financial cushions in savings and pensions.
''It means a whole different world for seniors,'' Mr. Frey said.
Ms. Dunn said she tries not to think too hard about retirement or getting old. She runs a campground from April through October and supplements her income by coaching lacrosse at a local high school. She has no health insurance and no pension to rely on. She lives in an 18th-century farmhouse she inherited from her father, and it needs repairs that she cannot afford. She said she will probably have to sell some land that she owns to make ends meet when she is too old or too infirm to work.
Even so, Ms. Dunn still savors her freedom. She is not dating at the moment and has no plans to remarry.
''When I think about the future, sometimes it's with trepidation,'' she said. ''But this is the life I've got. It's up to me to make it what I want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KATIE DUNN, 55, discussing her decision to sell her wedding ring after her divorce.(A12)
 Katie Dunn, 55, who has two children including her son Fergus, 13, was divorced last summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACEY CRAMP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) CHARTS: Growing Old Single: The percentage of unmarried older Americans has been rising. More than one-third of baby boomers are either divorced or never married. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (88%); AGING (88%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); JEWELRY (77%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (76%); TRENDS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); GERONTOLOGY (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); CENSUS (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



63 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Defendants Leave Egypt Amid Acrimony

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and STEVEN LEE MYERS; David D. Kirkpatrick reported from Cairo, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington. Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting from Cairo.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Two United States-financed nonprofit groups paid about $4 million in bail on Thursday to fly 11 employees out of reach of Egyptian courts in a deal that capped weeks of bruising diplomatic wrangling and set off a new outpouring of anti-American denunciations here.
In the final days, American diplomats were forced to rely on the support of their former foe, the Muslim Brotherhood, as well as implicit threats to hold up International Monetary Fund aid that Egypt desperately needs to avoid an imminent economic collapse. The United States had already explicitly threatened to end its own $1.5 billion in annual aid. And even as a chartered plane waited through the day at the Cairo airport on Thursday, its takeoff had remained in doubt amid a growing backlash against the perceived American interference in the Egyptian justice system. 
No Egyptian official stepped forward to accept responsibility for releasing the Americans. Instead, judges and prosecutors distanced themselves from the decision and traded accusations of political capitulation and conflict of interest. The Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that now leads Parliament, hedged itself by demanding an investigation into who let the Americans go. Other prominent members of Parliament called it an outrage and demanded public hearings.
Evening television talk shows brimmed with indignation. Even Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel Prize-winning former international diplomat and a reliable advocate for such nonprofit groups, called the political interference in the judicial process ''a fatal strike to democracy.''
The high monetary and political price paid to extract the group, which included six Americans and seven others, underscored the magnitude of the challenge the United States might face to preserve its close ties to perhaps its most important Arab ally through the uncertain transition to democracy after the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak.
The non-Egyptian employees of the groups had been trapped here for more than a month by a travel ban imposed as part of a politically charged criminal case against a handful of nonprofit groups, including three chartered to teach political organizing and other aspects of democracy. One is the German-financed Konrad Adenauer Foundation, which paid bail to extricate two Germans as well. And two are American-financed organizations with close ties to the Congressional leadership: the National Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute. The Republican group had been headed in Egypt by Sam LaHood, the son of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and one of those who left on Thursday's flight.
As a matter of law, all were accused of violating Mubarak-era restrictions requiring a nonprofit to obtain a license from Egyptian security services and forbidding use of foreign financing without official permission -- rules that the American organizations and dozens of other advocacy groups had been allowed to break for years. But prosecutors and officials of Egypt's military-led government also repeatedly accused the American groups of infringing on Egypt's sovereignty by sowing unrest in the streets, collaborating with spies and trying to direct the course of Egypt's revolution toward the interests of the United States and Israel.
As part of a deal, the groups, which rely on government financing, each paid more than $330,000 in bail for each of their foreign-born employees, who were required to sign a statement pledging to return for the next day of trial. American officials have said privately that it is almost unthinkable that they will return, noting that the defendants in Egyptian criminal cases are humiliated by standing imprisoned in a metal cage that serves as a docket.
One American, Robert Becker of the National Democratic Institute, voluntarily chose to remain in Egypt after his bail was paid, said people involved in the case. Mr. Becker could not be reached for comment. He has recently posted online messages admiring the strength of others who chose to stand in the cage to defend their principles.
American officials said a crucial break came 10 days ago, when the Muslim Brotherhood's political arm declared its support for the role of independent nonprofit groups, noting that many had helped expose the ''atrocities'' of the former government.
The Brotherhood's party said it supported the immediate lifting of the restrictions on nonprofit groups, including the ban on unauthorized foreign financing, in favor of subjecting them to the standards of transparency applied in other democracies. Parliament was already considering a revision to the law.
On Thursday, Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the International Republican Institute and previously a sharp critic of the Brotherhood who recently visited Egypt for talks about the issue, praised the Islamists' statement as ''important in helping to resolve the crisis.''
But the group's statement also repeated that it ''rejects any attempts by foreign governments to undermine the ongoing investigations, or influence the legal process.''
By last Saturday, American diplomats believed they had a deal to pay the bail, end the travel ban and let the trial run its course. But instead of executing that arrangement as the trial began the next day, the judge presiding over the case adjourned until late April. That would potentially put the next step after a deadline of mid-April when the United States had said it would cut off aid to Egypt if the matter was not resolved. State Department officials noted that work on the desperately needed International Monetary Fund loan had ceased for two months during the crisis even as Egypt's hard currency reserves were dwindling critically.
What happened next is a subject of dispute. Some judicial officials said that the original judge had come under political pressure to approve the deal and so recused himself. Others said that the case was taken away from him because of some family business tie to the United States that created a conflict of interest.
But in either case, by Wednesday night officials were reporting that the travel ban would soon be lifted. Akram el-Shaer, a Brotherhood member of Parliament, called for an investigation into who authorized the lifting of the travel ban. Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, said the United States would continue to work ''with the Egyptian government'' to resolve the charges against the groups and their Egyptian staff.
As the flight out of Cairo landed last night in Cypress, Obama administration officials said the State Department intended to deliver the planned aid to Egypt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); AIRPORTS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); JUDGES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (57%); RAY LAHOOD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (93%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



64 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Spending and Factory Reports Indicate a Slowdown

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Manufacturing slowed in February and consumer spending was flat for a third straight month in January, new economic data showed on Thursday, suggesting the economy lost more momentum than expected early this year. 
Other reports on Thursday were more upbeat, with new claims for jobless benefits last week hovering near four-year lows and retailers and automakers reporting brisker February sales.
Nevertheless, the spending and factory data cut into the optimism generated by a recent decline in the unemployment rate, and suggested rising energy prices were taking a toll.
The Commerce Department said inflation and taxes reduced income gains in January, and inflation-adjusted spending was unchanged for the third consecutive month.
''Consumer spending is off to a pretty weak start,'' said Keith Hembre, an economist at Nuveen Asset Management in Minneapolis. Mr. Hembre said the data painted ''a pretty weak picture for first-quarter G.D.P. despite the strong jobs numbers.''
Consumer spending and the restocking of company shelves lifted economic growth to a 3 percent annual rate in the last three months of 2011, its quickest rate in more than a year.
Economists think growth slowed early this year, and TD Securities lowered its first-quarter forecast to a 1.5 percent rate from 1.9 percent, citing the data on consumer spending.
The Institute for Supply Management said its national factory index dropped to 52.4 last month, indicating a slower rate of expansion. Most analysts had expected the index to rise, and the reading was below the lowest forecast in a Reuters survey.
Analysts said a surge in the institute's reading of prices paid showed factories were being hurt by oil prices, which have risen on tensions between Iran and the West over Tehran's nuclear ambitions.
The recent rise in energy prices is likely to lead the list of concerns for producers in the coming months, a Barclays analyst, Peter Newland, said.
The Commerce Department said its gauge of inflation rose 0.2 percent in January, picking up a bit from December as energy prices posted their first increase in four months. Economists expect rising gasoline prices were even more troublesome in February.
Despite higher costs at the pump, a surprising sales gain by General Motors and strong performances by Ford Motor and others pushed auto sales close to a four-year high in February.
Reports from retailers offered another sign January's spending weakness might be temporary. Chain stores sales rose 6.7 percent in February from a year earlier, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers.
The drop in jobless claims also buttressed the view that the economic recovery was still firmly entrenched, and it suggested a government report next week would show companies were still hiring at a brisk pace in February.
The number of people receiving benefits under regular state programs after an initial week of aid fell in mid-February to the lowest level since August 2008.
''It's consistent with our thought that the pace of job growth is picking up and accelerating,'' Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities in Stamford, Conn., said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A machinist working in Philadelphia. Rising energy prices appeared to have hurt manufacturing in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL TAGGART/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMAKERS (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



65 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Where the Jobs Are, the Training May Not Be

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
As state funding has dwindled, public colleges have raised tuition and are now resorting to even more desperate measures -- cutting training for jobs the economy needs most.
Technical, engineering and health care expertise are among the few skills in huge demand even in today's lackluster job market. They are also, unfortunately, some of the most expensive subjects to teach. As a result, state colleges in Nebraska, Nevada, South Dakota, Colorado, Michigan, Florida and Texas have eliminated entire engineering and computer science departments.
At one community college in North Carolina -- a state with a severe nursing shortage -- nursing program applicants so outnumber available slots that there is a waiting list just to get on the waiting list.
This squeeze is one result of the states' 25-year withdrawal from higher education. During and immediately after the last few recessions, states slashed financing for colleges. Then when the economy recovered, most states never fully restored the money that had been cut. The recent recession has amplified the problem. 
''There has been a shift from the belief that we as a nation benefit from higher education, to a belief that it's the people receiving the education who primarily benefit and so they should foot the bill,'' said Ronald G. Ehrenberg, the director of the Cornell Higher Education Research Institute and a trustee of the State University of New York system.
Even large tuition increases have not fully offset state cuts, since many state legislatures cap how much colleges can charge for each course. So classes get bigger, tenured faculty members are replaced with adjuncts and technical courses are sacrificed.
State appropriations for colleges fell by 7.6 percent in 2011-12, the largest annual decline in at least five decades, according to a report from the Center for the Study of Education Policy at Illinois State University. In one extreme example, Arizona has slashed its college budget by 31 percent since the recession began in 2007.
It is this cumulative public divestment -- and not extravagances like climbing walls or recreational centers advertised on a few elite campuses -- that is primarily responsible for skyrocketing tuitions at state institutions, which enroll three out of every four college students.
Colleges have found ways to hold costs per student relatively steady. Since 1985, the average amount that public institutions spend on teaching each full-time student over the course of a year has barely budged, hovering around an inflation-adjusted $10,000, according to a State Higher Education Executive Officers report. But in the same period, the share of instruction costs paid for by actual tuition -- not the sticker price, but the amount students actually pay after financial aid -- has nearly doubled, to 40 percent from 23 percent.
''I understand why students are angry,'' said George R. Blumenthal, the chancellor of the University of California, Santa Cruz, where student protests have erupted. ''They have to write bigger checks every year, and they can't get into the classes they want. The reality is they're paying more and getting less.''
In cutting educational subsidies, states may be penny-wise and pound-foolish, Mr. Ehrenberg said.
Economists have found that higher education benefits communities even more than it benefits the individual receiving the degree. Studies show that an educated populace leads to faster economic growth and a more stable democracy, and benefits the poorest workers the most. The post World War II economic boom, for example, has been attributed to increased college enrollment thanks to the G.I. Bill.
Less-skilled workers have much to gain from enrolling in higher education, given the wage premium that additional training brings. State funding cuts not only reduce the ability for the poor to receive more training, but also disproportionately limit access to the fields that are most important to economic and job growth: sciences, engineering and health care.
These courses are especially expensive to teach partly because of equipment and safety precautions. Because these skills are in such high demand, professors also have more opportunities in the private sector and so can command higher pay.
State laws usually bar colleges from charging different tuition amounts for different undergraduate subjects, regardless of costs. Traditionally the higher cost of technical training has instead been subsidized with state funds.
''When they don't get the appropriate level of funding, there's a flight to cheaper programs, like general studies or the humanities,'' said Nate Johnson, a higher education consultant and former associate director of institutional research for the University of Florida.
Florida International University graduates more Hispanic engineers each year than any other institution in the 50 states. Since the 2007-8 school year, the state funding the university receives annually per full-time student has fallen by $2,628. The university has been allowed to raise tuition by $1,233 in that time, covering less than half the shortfall.
Florida International has found efficiencies, like reducing energy costs. But it has also increased student-teacher ratios and eliminated some academic programs, like industrial engineering and dance, even as enrollment has surged. (Fine arts courses are also expensive to teach, partly because they require so much one-on-one time with professors.)
''There's a lot of soul-searching in Florida,'' said Mark B. Rosenberg, president of the university. ''In the end if higher education is viewed by most states as a cost and not an investment, then it's inevitable that this kind of cost shifting will continue to occur.''
If they are not eliminating job-friendly technical programs outright, many colleges are simply not expanding them to meet demand. Students then have to stay in college longer to squeeze in required classes, increasing both their debt and the chance that they will drop out.
At Wake Technical Community College in Raleigh, N.C., enrollment has grown by about 30 percent in the last three years, while total state funding has fallen by 21 percent, an amount not fully offset by tuition increases. The college cannot afford to expand its popular nursing program beyond its 275 slots, leaving 1,000 frustrated students on the waiting list. To keep these students, the college has enrolled them in a ''pre-nursing'' program, a new prerequisite for staying on the waiting list. But even those courses have a waiting list of more than 400 students. Some flagship universities in state systems, with relatively wealthy alumni and robust endowments, have survived the state cuts with less damage. The University of California, Berkeley, for example, has started a $3 billion fund-raising campaign and begun investing its working capital more aggressively.
Many state colleges have been leaning more heavily on the federal government, including through expanded Pell Grant funding and Recovery Act money. President Obama recently proposed a $8 billion federal package for community colleges to provide additional job training.
''There is this narrative out there that we have enough money in the system, that if we only spent it better we could increase degree attainment,'' said Jane V. Wellman, founding director of the Delta Cost Project, which released a comprehensive report on college costs. ''But we are not going to get the degree attainment levels the economy needs exclusively from finding 'efficiencies' here and there. This is not the miracle of the loaves and fishes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ashley Daniels, a nursing student at Wake Technical Community College in Raleigh, N.C., where many are on a waiting list. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: The Burden of Budget Cuts: Tuition at state colleges has been rising steadily over the last 25 years, and is now two-thirds the size of all other revenue. As state budgets for education decrease, colleges look first to cut back the most expensive majors like engineering, fine arts and nursing. (Sources: State Higher Education Executive Officers
 American Enterprise Institute) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); NURSES & NURSING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CLIMBING (61%); DIVESTITURES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (57%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



66 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS TRIBUNE COMPLETION CRISIS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: At UTEP, Success Is Not All About Graduation Rates

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
In the farthest corner of West Texas -- nestled between the Franklin Mountains and the United States-Mexico border, hundreds of miles from any other public university in the state -- the University of Texas at El Paso and its fortress-like buildings occupy one of the state's most exotic campus settings.
The perspective of its president, Diana Natalicio, is similarly distinct as she seeks to redefine what determines a university's success. She eschews commonly accepted higher-education measures like graduation rates, which show that just one out of 10 freshmen entering UTEP graduate within four years. She said UTEP, which has more than 18,000 undergraduate students and accepts nearly 97 percent of its applicants, aimed to demonstrate that a university ''could actually achieve both access and excellence.''
The highest four-year graduation rate at a public Texas university is 53 percent at the University of Texas at Austin, hardly boast-worthy. In a nod to the growing span of the typical college experience, the six-year graduation rate has become the standard in higher-education measures. In Texas, it is roughly 49 percent, which ranks 17th in the country, according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. At UTEP, just 35 percent of students have graduated after six years; only 46 percent get their degrees in a decade. 
Critics say UTEP and other Texas universities are failing in their core responsibility of graduating students, although the state's completion crisis is far from the worst. But with predictions that more than 60 percent of the nation's jobs will require a higher-education credential in 2020, the same critics say that Texas' public universities are lagging in their mission to prepare the state work force for the future, potentially creating major economic implications.
Ms. Natalicio said the university is working on improvements. But she questions whether the statistics accurately reflect the success of an institution serving a majority-minority community made up mostly of students who historically might not have been able to pursue higher education.
''It's regrettable that graduation rates have become such a handy weapon to use against institutions that serve low-income and first-generation students,'' she said.
For El Pasoans like Athena Matyear, a senior studying organizational and corporate communications, there are few options beyond UTEP ''It changed my life,'' she said, adding that if there had been more stringent admissions requirements, ''I wouldn't have gotten in.''
''My scores weren't good enough,'' she added. ''I probably never would have gone to school.''
But in the escalating debate over the effectiveness of Texas higher education, some experts place a high value on measurements like graduation rates. During a speech in January in Austin, Richard Vedder, an Ohio University economist who has often criticized Texas academia, singled out UTEP.
With such low graduation rates, Mr. Vedder asked, ''Why doesn't Texas simply close U.T.-El Paso?''
Ms. Natalicio said the graduation rate Mr. Vedder cited, as measured by the federal government, calculates the cohort of first-time students who enter a university and move through it in a precise amount of time, giving no credit for part-time students or for students who transfer in or out. In fact, it takes into account only 30 percent of UTEP's enrolled undergraduate students, she said.
''If you collect a lot of data and you look at it, you recognize that some metrics fit certain institutions better than others,'' she said. ''Graduation rate is much more about the demographics of your student population than it is anything about your efficiency or performance.''
The demographics of the El Paso campus are a reflection of the region. Roughly 77 percent of the students are Hispanic, 9 percent are white and 3 percent are black. Eighty-four percent are from El Paso County, followed by 7 percent from Mexico. About 46 percent are eligible for Pell grants, the federal government's need-based financial aid program.
The demographics reflect students who have not historically pursued higher education in large numbers, who have traditionally been against taking out loans and who are more apt to work their way through college, making on-time graduation more difficult. At UTEP, the jump between 6-year and 10-year graduation rates is much larger than at other state institutions, lending credence to the notion that these students take a more circuitous route to completion.
Ms. Natalicio's argument against the emphasis on graduation rates has won an influential convert in Woody Hunt, an El Paso-based businessman and former University of Texas System regent who has pushed the Legislature to alter state financing to reward universities' ability to graduate students. He wants to see financing tied to the total number of graduations -- not the rates.
''In a low-income population where you've got ins and outs, people coming and going, it really is not a very good measurement,'' he said.
From 2003 to 2010, UTEP had a 73 percent increase in undergraduate degrees awarded, from 1,754 to 3,031. In that same time frame, its six-year graduation rate rose by only 8 percent.
Ms. Natalicio said the makeup of the student body demonstrated the extent to which the university had elevated the aspirations of the local community. ''I'm much more proud of that statistic than I am worried about graduation rates per se,'' she said.
The surefire way to increase the graduation rate is to increase selectivity, something Ms. Natalicio indicated she had no intention of doing. The students are even more protective of UTEP's commitment to accessibility, as it is one of eight public colleges in Texas vying to be the next top-tier research university.
The Tier 1 push has served as a rallying cry for many UTEP supporters, but for some, like the student Ms. Matyear, it causes some anxiety. ''Doesn't that mean it will be harder for students to get in?'' she asked. ''I feel like that will close off so many opportunities to students who come to UTEP.''
Administrators say they are not losing sight of their access mission, and their goal is to become the first Tier 1 university ''with a 21st-century student demographic.''
Mr. Hunt said the university plays a singular role in the region. ''Because of our particular geography within the state, there's no choice beyond relocating a far distance and financially being able to support yourself,'' he said. ''When you couple that with a relatively low-income student population, it essentially means there is no choice.''
Donna Ekal, UTEP's associate provost for undergraduate studies, said the top reasons students leave without degrees are work and finances, family problems, transportation, and health and academic struggles.
Educators have to be deliberate in the ways they address students' needs, she said. If students repeatedly miss class over work or family issues, ''throwing another math tutor at them is going to be the Band-Aid, but it won't address the disease.''
One program her office spearheaded combined study skills and financial management training for freshmen to help bridge the gap between the first and second year of college, which is when many students get lost. Between 2009, when the program began, and 2010, there was a nearly 13 percent jump in retention of students who participated.
Francisco Cigarroa, the University of Texas System chancellor, said he wants all institutions in the system to raise four-year graduation rates and indicated they will be held accountable if they fail. While he thinks such data points are important, he said they should be measured in a nuanced way that reflects the reality of a student population.
Ms. Natalicio said that if graduation rates or some of the other criteria starts to drive your investments, ''you're taking money away from something you know is more meaningful and putting it into something that maybe is more of a status symbol.''
Coming Sunday: At Texas Southern University, 3 out of every 100 students who start as freshmen graduate in four years.; Completion Crisis: This is one of four articles in a series on the lagging graduation rates at public universities in Texas and the ways university officials are responding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: University of Texas at El Paso students, above, on campus. Left, Diana Natalicio, the university's president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN PIERRE AGUIRRE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



67 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (MTV) THE BREAK (2012) More than 1.5 million children are estimated to live on the streets, in shelters and on friends' couches in the United States. Many come from troubled families and have run away from abuse or have aged out of the foster care system. Their futures often involve prostitution, crime and illegal drug use, and one in three are likely to attempt suicide. This documentary follows Ava, Nancy and Rob, young people currently without homes and in desperate need of improving their lives. Anne Mahlum -- an advocate for the homeless whose organization, Back on My Feet, uses running as a way of building strength and self-esteem -- offers them the opportunities and tools to bring about change. The project was envisioned by the Edge, from the band U2. 
7:30 A.M. (Starz) HOW DO YOU KNOW (2010) Reese Witherspoon taps into her intimidating side to play Lisa, a 31-year-old softball star whose aspirations have been dealt a huge blow. Owen Wilson is Matty, the major league pitcher whose spell she falls under, and who thinks he may be ready to give commitment a try. Then George (Paul Rudd, above with Ms. Witherspoon) enters Lisa's life, first as a dud of a blind date and then as a friend whose father-cum-boss (Jack Nicholson) isn't all that unhappy about letting his son take the fall for his own financial misdeeds. Now Lisa needs to decide. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis said this romantic comedy from James L. Brooks was ''so wan and disconnected to anything that feels like real life or, just as good, a screwball interpretation of it, that it's hard to know what Mr. Brooks was really after, other than passing the time with some talented movie people.''
8 A.M. (Fox Movie Channel) THE BLUE BIRD (1976) Two peasant children (Todd Lookinland and Patsy Kensit) are instructed by the Queen of Light (Elizabeth Taylor, in head-to-toe jewels) to seek the Blue Bird of Happiness in this adaptation of Maurice Maeterlinck's fairy tale, directed by George Cukor. The international cast includes Ava Gardner (Luxury), Jane Fonda (Night), George Cole (Dog), Cicely Tyson (Cat) and members of the Leningrad Kirov Ballet. Writing in The Times, Vincent Canby said the film was actually two movies: one ''blandly American'' and the other ''dimly Russian.'' Then there was the problem of the birds. ''Some look like black birds and some are simply pigeons dyed blue,'' he wrote. ''No New Yorker in his right mind would cross a street to look for a pigeon.''
8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Reba McEntire explores her mother's family on a journey that takes her to Raleigh, N.C., where an ancestor lived through the Revolutionary War.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW In ''Help Wanted'' this newsmagazine returns to northern Ohio for a third time for an updated report on how even employed Americans are struggling to make ends meet. Among them are a teacher who was fired, then rehired at half pay, without benefits; a factory worker with health problems who now works the overnight shift after being unemployed for more than a year; and a married couple who started their own contracting business but cannot secure loans despite a strong credit rating.
9 P.M. (CBS) A GIFTED MAN The first season ends as Michael (Patrick Wilson) discovers that a patient at the clinic has a special connection to Anna (Jennifer Ehle).
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 Gabe Watson, who was accused of killing his new wife, Tina (left with Mr. Watson), on their honeymoon in 2003 while scuba diving off the coast of Australia, speaks with Elizabeth Vargas in his first interview. Mr. Watson spent 18 months in an Australian jail after pleading guilty to negligent manslaughter for failing to save Ms. Watson. But upon returning to the United States he was charged with murder on suspicion of having plotted her death in Alabama. His case was dismissed on Feb. 23.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER The Democratic strategist James Carville; Neil deGrasse Tyson, the director of the Hayden Planetarium; and John Heilemann, a political writer for New York magazine, are seated at the round table. Russ Feingold, the former Wisconsin senator, and Bob Lutz, a former vice chairman for General Motors, are interview guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MTV
 DAVID JAMES/COLUMBIA PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); EMANCIPATION OF YOUTHS (73%); FOSTER CARE (73%); SOFTBALL (72%); BASEBALL (72%); SUICIDE (72%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); COMEDY FILMS (63%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (56%); HOMELESSNESS (55%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

PERSON: REESE WITHERSPOON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%) UNITED STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



68 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Back Home, Some Eternal Verities Prove Irksome

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
The playwright Mark Snyder is a native of Ohio, where he has set ''As Wide as I Can See,'' a drama now at the Here Arts Center. Given the play's rigorous balance, it appears he bears a pronounced ambivalence toward the state. 
Dean (Ryan Barry), a journalist formerly in Chicago, now unemployed, has returned to his hometown and lives with Jessica (Julie Leedes), a headwaitress. Their home includes a backyard with a trailer inhabited by Dean's gruff best friend, Tyler (Joshua Levine), and his live-in girlfriend, Nan (Kay Capasso); Tyler is a mail carrier, while Nan is content with child rearing.
Perhaps to counter Dean's despair over the recession and local provincialism (and maybe dispel tension stemming from his growing bedroom adventurousness), the prim Jessica gives a barbecue, not anticipating the rancor prompted by Charlotte (Melisa Breiner-Sanders), Dean's visiting high school friend, who lives in Oregon with her husband, Walt (Conan McCarty).
Over beer and whiskey secrets emerge about a night years ago that threaten Dean and Tyler's friendship as well as their living arrangement. There follows a set of reversals: personalities morph into their opposites; flaws become pluses; regional pieties become signs of moral fiber; and a penetrating critique starts sounding like a defense.
This production, by the At Hand Theater Company, captures suburban anomie thanks to David L. Arsenault's set, littered with toddler detritus, and Josh Bradford's lighting, which conjures the glow of summer dusk. Dan Horrigan's direction hits speed bumps early on, but rights itself, while the actors (especially the funny Ms. Capasso) do not disappoint. But Mr. Snyder suffers from evenhandedness; walking down the middle, scrupulously avoiding sides, he convinces the audience of little.
''As Wide as I Can See'' continues through March 10 at the Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, near Spring Street, South Village; (212) 352 3101, here.org. nThis is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As Wide as I Can See: Julie Leedes and Ryan Barry in a play by Mark Snyder at Here. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW MURPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); COHABITATION (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: As Wide as I Can See (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



69 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Israel Plans Interceptor Missile Test and Gives Neighbors Early Notice

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel, in an unusual move, announced on Thursday that it would soon conduct the first test of an advanced antiballistic missile system designed to intercept incoming missiles from enemies like Syria and Iran. 
Its departure from the traditional hush-hush approach to such tests is meant, at least in part, to avoid misunderstandings by other countries in the region and by Israelis themselves in the current highly charged atmosphere surrounding Iran's nuclear program. Israel has repeatedly stated that it will not allow Iran to reach nuclear weapons capacity and that it retains the option of a military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities as a last resort. Any such action would invite retaliation, including the likelihood of missiles fired at Israel.
With tensions already running high, some analysts have warned of the dangers of a miscalculation.
In November, jittery Israelis jammed emergency telephone lines after the country carried out an unannounced test, firing what experts said was a long-range ballistic missile out to sea from an Air Force base just south of Tel Aviv during the morning rush, feeding already feverish speculation in the news media about Israel's intentions.
Itzhak Kaya, who leads the Arrow missile program at the government-owned Israel Aerospace Industries, announced the test of the Arrow 3 antiballistic missile system at a military and aviation conference near Tel Aviv, and Israel Aerospace issued a statement.
The Arrow program is being developed in partnership with the United States. At least one or two tests of different components are carried out every year, according to Doron Suslik, deputy corporate vice president for communications at Israel Aerospace, in coordination with Israel's Ministry of Defense, the United States Missile Defense Agency and other agencies and subcontractors involved with the project.
Mr. Suslik said the test, which is expected to take place in the next few weeks or months, will be what industry experts call a ''fly out.'' An advanced Arrow 3 missile will be programmed with flight instructions and launched over the sea. It is to explode after a short flight, without intercepting an incoming missile.
Iran insists that its nuclear program is for peaceful civilian purposes, but Israel, the United States and other Western powers believe the program is designed to give Tehran the ability to produce nuclear weapons. The Obama administration has been pushing to tighten economic sanctions on Iran, but Israel worries that the effort might be coming too late.
On Wednesday, under tremendous economic pressure, North Korea announced that it would halt uranium enrichment and nuclear weapons tests in exchange for American food aid, but Israel's deputy foreign minister, Danny Ayalon, cautioned against drawing any parallel with Iran.
''North Korea is a small and weak state,'' Mr. Ayalon said Thursday in an interview with Israel's Army Radio. ''If it had a nuclear bomb or two in its cellar it would only be for economic blackmail. Iran, on the other hand, has global range, and its motivations are ideological.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ARMIES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



70 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Town in Illinois All Too Versed In Taking a Hit

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Emma G. Fitzsimmons contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
HARRISBURG, Ill. -- Even before a tornado tore through this small southern Illinois city, leaving residents cowering inside closets as ceilings tore away, huddling under mattresses showered with glass and metal and wood, hiding inside bathtubs that had somehow lost their bathrooms, Harrisburg had seen trouble.
Just last spring, flooding was bad enough to warrant a disaster declaration in this region. Three years earlier, a different flood caused $20 million in damage to the city, not to mention what residents recalled as several feet of water sloshing inside the local grocery. 
Then there was the ice storm that downed tree limbs all over this part of the state in 2009; a tornado that damaged hundreds of homes here in the 1980s; the flood of 1937 when Harrisburg was, in the words of the city's official Web site, nearly wiped off the map; and, as is common in this part of Illinois, an economic struggle lasting decades to hold onto jobs and young people in a coal-mining town that once had many more residents.
''We've taken our share of blows,'' said Bill Ghent, an insurance agent who stood on Thursday staring at his own battered house in a neighborhood of houses battered by a system of violent tornadoes that swept through the Midwest and South this week leaving at least 13 dead, 6 of them just blocks from Mr. Ghent's house. ''The truth is, we're used to taking cover by now, one way or another.''
In a city of 9,017, as the names of the dead from the latest storm began to trickle out, there was a special toll -- most everyone knew at least a few of them. Among those killed: a married couple who had survived health problems, friends said, only to perish in the storm; Jaylynn Ferrell, 22, a nurse who taught Sunday school to toddlers; Mary Osman, 75, a widow who had once worked as a hatmaker.
But if residents in this region of Illinois have had to take hit after hit, they also have had to rebuild, over and over.
So, with whining seemingly not an option here, homeowners were by Thursday carting out tree limbs, combing through rubble for necessities and matter-of-factly snapping photographs for insurance adjusters, as city officials pledged that Harrisburg would, of course, soldier on again.
''Nothing fazes these people,'' said Rhonda Belford of the state treasurer's office, who was handing out information in Harrisburg about a disaster recovery loan program -- a program that she said the place already was acquainted with, thanks in part to last year's flooding.
''There is a real tradition of rising to the occasion in southern Illinois,'' Gov. Pat Quinn said in an interview, ticking down his own surprisingly long list of disasters that have brought him to the region in just the last three years. (There was the ice storm, he said, ''a siege where they lost power for eight days, and then there was a horizontal hurricane.'')
Harrisburg is hundreds of miles from Chicago, and it feels, some residents here happily say, like a world away, with an atmosphere more Southern than Northern. A city since 1889, Harrisburg boomed as a coal mining town. In 1930, its population was 15,659, but the numbers have since faded, as mining slowed and small towns all around grew smaller.
In recent years, mining has picked up again in the area, residents here said, and there are signs of economic growth. Harrisburg, a county seat, draws shoppers from smaller towns nearby, and some of the houses among those destroyed in the tornado were part of a well-to-do neighborhood near a country club.
Still, the median household income in Harrisburg is $33,278, more than $20,000 less than in the state as a whole, and a larger percentage of people are living below the poverty level.
''The economy is so bad,'' said Bill Horning, 76, who is retired from the local bank. ''Yes, there is mining, but not that much, and there's just no other industry in any way, shape or form.'' Residents complained of an aging, vanishing population and a younger generation with few choices but the mines, the military or fast food restaurants.
''It's not easy to be 19 around here,'' said Eli Rodgers, who had huddled in a closet with his fiancee and her family before dawn on Wednesday as much of their house blew away when the storm hit. ''It took me six months to get a job,'' he said, at the local Walmart, but he added that he hopes to get a spot in the mines.
As the sounds of repairs -- whirring saws, a buzzing power generator, endless lines of rumbling supply trucks -- filled the air here on Thursday, some residents speculated about why so many natural disasters touch the region.
Sure, they said, everyplace has its own set of storms to remember, but this seemed like an awful lot. Some guessed that farm fields outside towns might allow tornadoes to build strength. Others said the fallout from the Ohio River, with nearby streams that feed it, was always destined to be a problem for Harrisburg.
''They built this town in a swamp, and you can write that,'' said Doyle Hedger, 83.
But in the parts of the city most damaged by the storm, few people were asking such questions. They were more worried about finding their wallets, their medications, their photographs, and then just getting on with things.
''What people don't understand is you just make it out, just make it done,'' Mr. Ghent said, glancing out at a sloping hill covered in trash, boards and insulation. ''We'll be mowing grass here in a few months.''
Ashley Plumlee, whose daughters, 5 and 6, had crouched beneath a mattress through this storm in their Barbie bicycle helmets -- now kept at the ready, she said, for such occurrences -- seemed less certain. Last year, a peculiar wind storm had swept through their yard, Ms. Plumlee said, destroying the family's swing set.
On Thursday, a new swing set was a pile of crumpled metal, lifted up and dumped not far from a next-door neighbor's trailer, which had blown away.
''Last year we got by fine, and this year we barely got by,'' she said, searching through the items that filled her yard. ''I don't know if next year I want to risk it. Maybe we need a basement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A tornado that smashed through Harrisburg, Ill., the latest in a long list of disasters to hit the town, left a bed without a bedroom. (A1)
 Jake Simerly, 16, took a break on an intact part of his grandmother's apartment building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); WEATHER (78%); CHILDREN (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INSURANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (66%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (66%); COAL MINING (52%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (50%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



71 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 6361 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'The Big Meal' (in previews; opens on March 21) In what sounds like a modern-day take on Thornton Wilder, this new play traverses 80 years and five generations in the life of a typical suburban family. The director, Sam Gold, has found plenty of poetry in Annie Baker's forays into suburbia; let's see if he'll do the same for Dan LeFranc (''Sixty Miles to Silver Lake''). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Eric Grode) 
'Death of a Salesman' (in previews; opens on March 15) Following in the footsteps of Brian Dennehy, Dustin Hoffman, George C. Scott and Lee J. Cobb, just to name his Broadway predecessors in the role, Philip Seymour Hoffman slips on the careworn persona of Willy Loman in this revival of the Arthur Miller classic. Directed by Mike Nichols, the ensemble also features Linda Emond as Linda, Andrew Garfield (due on screen this summer in ''The Amazing Spider-Man'') as Biff, Bill Camp as Charley and John Glover as Ben. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)
'Edward Albee's The Lady From Dubuque' (in previews; opens on Monday) As part of Signature's inaugural season in its new Frank Gehry-designed home, the company tackles one of Mr. Albee's more challenging plays with this rare revival of the 1980 work inspired by his reading of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's ''On Death and Dying.'' David Esbjornson directs a cast headed by Jane Alexander as the enigmatic title figure. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Eternal Equinox' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) He famously (and perhaps apocryphally) replied ''Because it's there'' when asked why he wanted to climb Mount Everest, but what were George Mallory's reasons for dropping in at the summer home of the Bloomsbury Group painters Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant right before his third Everest attempt? Joyce Hokins Sachs's play, based on actual events and set on a fall day in 1923, looks to find out. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Grode)
'Give Me Your Hand' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on March 11) Two of Ireland's most distinguished stage actors, Dermot Crowley (''The Weir'') and Dearbhla Molloy (''Dancing at Lughnasa''), channel the Dublin-based poet Paul Durcan's interpretations of some of the world's most famous paintings. Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'Gore Vidal's The Best Man' (previews start on Monday; opens on April 1) How will the ruthless chicanery of Mr. Vidal's 1960 play about the presidential primary season measure up against its real-life contemporary counterpart? Quite well if the top-notch cast assembled for Michael Wilson's Broadway revival is any indication. That lineup includes James Earl Jones, John Larroquette, Candice Bergen, Angela Lansbury, Eric McCormack, Kerry Butler, Jefferson Mays and Michael McKean. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Hot Lunch Apostles' (in previews; opens on Thursday) The long and fruitful collaboration between La MaMa and the Obie Award-winning company the Talking Band continues with a revival of Sidney Goldfarb's bawdy 1983 play about a troupe of carnival strippers who end up performing Bible stories. The folk-music veteran Loudon Wainwright III is on board as a performer, though presumably not as a stripper. Ellen Stewart Theater at La MaMa, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Grode)
'I Alice I' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Fresh from the Abbey, Ireland's national theater, comes this story by the young Dublin-based company HotForTheater of two opinionated Irish woman (both named Alice) and the romance that has kept them afloat for more than a half-century. Amy Conroy, HotForTheater's artistic director, co-stars with Clare Barrett; Ms. Conroy also wrote and directed the piece. Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, irishartscenter.org. (Grode)
'An Iliad' (in previews; opens on Tuesday and Wednesday) The Tony-winning actors Denis O'Hare and Stephen Spinella play alternate performances of this new version of Homer's epic poem. Written by Mr. O'Hare and Lisa Peterson, who also directs, the production considers humanity's appetite for violence and destruction, contemplating how little has changed since the Trojan War. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Rooney)
'Jesus Christ Superstar' (in previews; opens on March 22) Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's mildly revisionist rock gloss on the Gospels began life as a concept album, a format that the director Des McAnuff knows something about. (He won a Tony for guiding the Who's ''Tommy'' to the stage.) This production earned its share of hosanna hey-sannas at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Canada, where Mr. McAnuff is artistic director. Most of the Stratford cast has remained for the Broadway production, including Josh Young as Judas and Paul Nolan as the title character. Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'The Kreutzer Sonata' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 11) Inspired by the Beethoven piece of the same name, Tolstoy had hoped one day to see his 1889 novella about the corrupting power of sexual obsession and jealousy as a work performed with musical accompaniment. The Gate Theater of London commissioned the playwright Nancy Harris to adapt the text in this critically lauded 2009 production, which incorporates film, live music and performance. La MaMa, First Floor Theater, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Rooney)
'The Maids' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 15) Making the chocolate-cream-pie revenge of ''The Help'' seem almost innocuous, Jean Genet's domestics hatch sadomasochistic vendettas against the bourgeois mistress of the house in the ritualistic 1947 play. Known for its vigorous interpretations of classic texts, Red Bull Theater assembles a promising cast of J. Smith-Cameron, Ana Reeder and Jeanine Serralles, under the direction of Jesse Berger. Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, redbulltheater.com. (Rooney)
'Make Mine Manhattan' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Have the last 64 years been kind to this musical, which ran for more than a year in 1948? (Featuring a 20-something Sid Caesar in the cast undoubtedly helped.) UnsungMusicals aims to find out as it puts its theatrical defibrillators to this Big Apple-themed revue, which promises ''struggling actors, disgruntled theater critics and hapless out-of-towners.'' Are there any other kinds? Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Grode)
'A Moon for the Misbegotten' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 18) The Pearl Theater adds to the flurry of Eugene O'Neill productions appearing around town this winter with J. R. Sullivan's staging of the playwright's late masterwork. Kim Martin-Cotten and Andrew May make their Pearl debuts in the central roles of Josie Hogan and James Tyrone. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'Now. Here. This.' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on March 28) The creators, cast and director-choreographer behind ''[title of show]'' reunite on this humorous exploration of life's big questions, with a gaze that extends from early man to ancient civilizations to middle school to outer space. Following a developmental workshop last year, the musical returns to the Vineyard for a fully staged production. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Painting Churches' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Carl Forsman stages the first major New York revival of Tina Howe's 1983 comedy about parent-child relationships and the intersection of life and art. The Keen Company production stars Kathleen Chalfant and John Cunningham as the aging couple preparing to move to a Cape Cod beach house, and Kate Turnbull as the artist daughter who arrives to help them pack and paint their portrait. Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Once' (in previews; opens on March 18) Off Broadway transfers to Broadway are nothing new, and neither are musicals based on successful films, but this is a rare case of both happening at the same time. The scruffy 2006 romance about an Irish busker and a Czech immigrant bonding over music in Dublin has become a musical with the help of the movie's stars, Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova (who wrote the music and lyrics), as well as John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (who also directed and choreographed ''Black Watch,'' respectively). Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti star in the central roles. Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Regrets' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 27) The British playwright Matt Charman makes his New York debut with this Manhattan Theater Club production, directed by Carolyn Cantor. A drama about friendship and courage, the 1950s-set play centers on a young man who flees Hollywood and heads to a Nevada desert retreat where men go to secure a quickie divorce. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'Tribes' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Acclaimed in its 2010 premiere at the Royal Court Theater in London, Nina Raine's play brings David Cromer back to the same address where he staged his penetrating dissection of ''Our Town.'' His latest project is a provocative comedy about a young man born deaf into a family whose articulacy compounds his isolation. Things change when he begins a relationship with a woman also losing her hearing. The six-member cast features Mare Winningham. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'Anything Goes' Kathleen Marshall's zesty revival of Cole Porter's hit-packed musical embodies the essence of escapist entertainment in the 1930s, when hard times called for bold smiles, tough wisecracks and flashy fantasies. Sutton Foster is sensational as the nightclub evangelist Reno Sweeney (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' As the fatally conflicted Bess, the extraordinary Audra McDonald is a gale force of emotion in Diane Paulus's slimmed-down musical adaptation of the landmark 1935 opera. Otherwise, despite a likable performance from Norm Lewis as Porgy, this production feels cloudy and mild, only rarely acquiring the majesty of the opera that inspired it (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Nick Jonas plays the amoral hero of Frank Loesser's 1961 musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Justin Kirk. Ms. Griffiths plays her last performance on Sunday; Elizabeth Marvel resumes the role on Wednesday. Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny, facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the Gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
- 'Venus in Fur' The incandescent Nina Arianda recreates her dazzling turn as an actress auditioning for the role of a 19th-century dominatrix in David Ives's seriously funny sex comedy about power games at an audition. Hugh Dancy holds his own as the writer-director who may be discovering more than he wants to know about the destabilizing nature of desire (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Wit' Cynthia Nixon gives a large, lucid and delicate performance in this immaculately staged (and inevitably moving) revival of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama from 1998 about a terminally ill English professor. Lynne Meadow's smart and sensitive production magnifies the play's innate theatricality without compromising the hard emotional truth at its center (1:40). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
- 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs' The accomplished monologuist Mike Daisey weaves the story of the Apple co-founder's life and vision into a darker exploration of the troubling economic disparities that underlie our technology-obsessed age. Smart, engaging and funny, but be warned that you might have second thoughts about purchasing that next shiny gadget (1:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
- 'And God Created Great Whales' Rinde Eckert's deeply sentimental, affecting and often funny portrait of an artist -- an opera composer -- in search of his own, rapidly deteriorating memory. Directed by David Schweizer and also starring Nora Cole, this revival of Mr. Eckert's 2000 performance piece uses music, flashcards and ''Moby-Dick'' in a fight against eroding time (1:20). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Brantley)
'Assistance' Leslye Headland (''Bachelorette'') depicts the power games between an abusive, and unseen, boss and his ever-revolving cast of assistants in this thin-as-a-Post-it-note comedy, directed with dispatch by Trip Cullman and featuring a top-notch cast of gifted young actors (1:25). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Isherwood)
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
'Beyond the Horizon' Eugene O'Neill's bleak 1920 drama, a tale of two brothers beaten up by bad choices and bad karma, has been given a dutiful revival by the Irish Repertory Theater. Directed by Ciaran O'Reilly, this is a one-foot-in-front-of-the-other march into a grim destiny that even Thomas Hardy might have deemed excessive (2:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Brantley)
'Blood Knot' Scott Shepherd (''Gatz'') and Colman Domingo (''The Scottsboro Boys'') play brothers united by blood but divided by skin color in Athol Fugard's play about the brutalities of apartheid and, more universally, the way pernicious social forces can warp identity. Directed by the playwright himself, this first production in Signature's season devoted to his work is more intellectually stimulating than emotionally engaging (2:30). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'CQ/CX' The playwright Gabe McKinley, a former news assistant at The New York Times, turns the newspaper's 2003 Jayson Blair scandal into a cautionary take of deceit, ambition and hubris. The play, briskly staged by David Leveaux for Atlantic Theater Company, has some insider details, but the work doesn't go much beyond the compelling narrative of a major journalistic fraud (2:15). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Frank Rizzo)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Galileo' F. Murray Abraham gives a commanding but nuanced performance in Brian Kulick's lucid revival of Bertolt Brecht's drama about the conflict between scientific advance and the Roman Catholic Church in 17th-century Italy. But Brecht the lecturer sometimes peeks through the play's textured fabric (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Isherwood)
'Hand to God' The Devil is a sock puppet in the return of this foul-mouthed, fun-packed play by Robert Askins about the urges that drive good men (and women, and boys) to dirty deeds. Exuberantly performed by a great cast, led by Steven Boyer as a troubled teenager at odds with his id (1:45). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Isherwood)
- 'How I Learned to Drive' A first-rate revival of Paula Vogel's Pulitzer Prize winner. With Norbert Leo Butz and Elizabeth Reaser playing a predatory uncle and his precocious niece, one of the most discomfiting love stories in the American theater returns 15 years after its premiere with its power to rattle and stir undiluted. Kate Whoriskey directs (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Brantley)
'Hurt Village' Katori Hall's sprawling, overstuffed play, about the last days of a Memphis housing project, may have its problems. But it's packed with vitality and infused with the locomotive rhythms of rap. Patricia McGregor directs a vivid cast that includes the formidable Tonya Pinkins as the determined matriarch of a fragmented family (2:40). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)
'Look Back in Anger' Sam Gold's stylized staging of John Osborne's 1956 drama about a working-class lad with the weight of a stifling social system on his shoulders wins points for ingenuity -- the stage is about three feet deep -- but in the crucial central role, Matthew Rhys (television's ''Brothers and Sisters'') never locates the genuine pain beneath the surface rage (2:10). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 352-3101, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Rated P for Parenthood' Half of the time, Sandy Rustin, Dan Lipton and David Rossmer's musical about the joys and trials of having children is touching and wistfully funny. The rest of the time, it offers nothing more than we're-all-alike platitudes, shakily conveyed (1:25). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Russian Transport' Janeane Garofalo plays it straight, more or less, in Erika Sheffer's dark drama about the corrupting influence of a new Russian immigrant (the excellent Morgan Spector) on a Brooklyn family (2:10). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Rutherford & Son' The Mint Theater revives Githa Sowerby's grimly unsentimental 1912 drama about John Rutherford, the owner of a glassworks in northern England, and the misery he has wrought on his children's lives. Directed by Richard Corley, this production remains a static and slightly musty affair (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Saltz)
'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents gets to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, but most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
Off Off Broadway
- 'Bad Kid' It's the characters that stand out in this endearing solo show about growing up gay and goth in Texas (1:10). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, near Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Zinoman)
- 'Disaster!' This delightful jukebox musical, a mash-up of disaster-movie cliches from the 1970s and that decade's cheesiest pop hits (and there were so many), could have been D.J.'d by Irwin Allen. If you belong to its target demographic -- that is, you spent the '70s at the drive-in and listening to Casey Kasem's ''American Top 40'' -- it's irresistible. Sunday only (2:00). The Triad, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 362-2590, disastermusical.com. (Webster)
'Evelyn' In Julia May Jonas's stylistically uneven drama set at a mental institution, the entrance of a movie star throws everything into chaos (1:30). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (Zinoman)
'Growing Up Gonzales' This one-man play about a Nuyorican family in the 1970s is part stand-up, part melodrama and part cultural tourism. Andres Chulisi Rodriguez alternates between playing two brothers: Cisco, the sweet-natured, slow younger brother, who we learn at the outset has recently died; and Johnny, the thuggish older sibling, who has discovered Cisco's journals after his brother's death. The quiet Cisco, it turns out, was quite the storyteller and has colorfully recreated the tragedies and farces of their fatherless childhood, including ridiculous stories about shoplifting raw chickens and imitating Bruce Lee (1:30). Jan Hus Playhouse, 351 East 74th Street, (212) 811-4111, growingupgonzales.com. (Catherine Rampell)
'Mama, I Want to Sing' A largely new cast (seeded from the Gospel for Teens program in Harlem) gives full-throated life to this long-running gospel musical. Quibbles about the thin plot and questionable acting go out the window with each and every tune -- and there are plenty of them. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org. (Grode)
'That Ain't No Lady' The doyenne of New York's now-defunct annual outdoor drag festival, Wigstock, Lady Bunny purveys bawdy stand-up and pornographic pop song parodies in her first new cabaret act in 10 years. Looking like Dusty Springfield on steroids and introduced ''direct from the Port Authority men's room,'' the Lady and her show are definitely not for the prudish. But anyone feeling nostalgic for the seedy old days before Times Square became a tourist-friendly theme park will get a kick out of this evening of big hair and bad manners. Tuesday only (1:30). La Escuelita Cabaret Theater, 301 West 39th Street, (212) 631-0588, brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Baby Wants Candy' An improvised musical. Saturday at 10 p.m. only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Celebrity Autobiography: The Next Chapter' Celebrities read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous. The rotating cast includes Bobby Cannavale, Mario Cantone, Tony Danza, Gina Gershon, Jennifer Tilly and Alan Zweibel. Monday only (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation (''In the Time of the Butterflies,'' in English) of Julia Alvarez's novel about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface the Musical' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200, frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Broken Heart' (closes on Sunday) Selina Cartmell's gloom-shrouded production of this rarely staged tragedy by John Ford features a fine cast, but the air of woe foretold is so thick that it's hard to engage with the twisted tale of love and retribution (2:45). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, new42.org. (Isherwood)
'Chekhovek' (closes on Sunday) This dramatization of nine Chekhov short stories is proficiently acted and directed, yet often more intriguing in theory than in execution (2:00). ArcLight Theater, 152 West 71st Street, (866) 811-4111, chekhovek.com. (Ken Jaworowski)
'Early Plays' (closes on Sunday) The weary sameness of life at sea, according to the young Eugene O'Neill, interpreted in a steady monotone by the avant-garde auteur Richard Maxwell. This willfully flat collaboration between Mr. Maxwell's New York City Players and the Wooster Group has occasional moments of melodrama-subverting clarity and more than occasional longueurs (1:30). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Brantley)
'I Killed My Mother' (closes on Sunday) Andras Visky's bleak and insightful drama explores the hard-shelled, protective fantasies of Romanian orphans brought up in state institutions. Karin Coonrod's stark, poetic production is performed with feral fierceness by Andrew Hampton Livingston and the uncanny Melissa Lorraine Hawkins (1:30). La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Brantley)
- 'The Inexplicable Redemption of Agent G' (closes on Sunday) The pop-culture-drunk artists of Vampire Cowboys deliver an Asian exploitation drama that manages to be serious without sacrificing any silliness (1:30). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
- 'The Navigator' (closes on Saturday) A comedy about a car's GPS system that gives a harried driver the answers to his many life problems, ''The Navigator'' largely cruises in entertainingly high gear, thanks to its spirited cast and brisk repartee (1:15). WorkShop Theater, 312 West 36th Street, fourth floor, (866) 811-4111, workshoptheater.org. (Andy Webster)
'Poetic License' (closes on Sunday) The vengeful young man in Jack Canfora's disturbing new drama makes Neil LaBute's manipulative misogynists look like sweethearts. This one-act play can be abrupt and not totally credible at times, but it is thought-provoking (1:20). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Gates)
'Richard III' (closes on Sunday) Kevin Spacey entertainingly out-acts everybody onstage in Sam Mendes's valedictory production for the Anglo-American Bridge Project. Say what you will about Mr. Spacey's histrionic excesses, he provides a sustained (and intelligent) interpretation as Shakespeare's murderous crookback. The same cannot be said of Mr. Mendes's staging, a grab bag of postmodern gimmicks (3:00). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)
'The Road to Mecca' (closes on Sunday) A quiet, slow and ultimately powerful revival of Athol Fugard's three-character play about the inevitable and necessary apartness of artists. Rosemary Harris is wonderful, a study in subliminal radiance, as an aging South African sculptor under siege from the forces of conventionalism. Jim Dale and Carla Gugino provide strong support in Gordon Edelstein's production (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
- 'Rx' (closes on Saturday) Kate Fodor's play about an affair between a work-weary editor (Marin Hinkle) and a pharmaceutical researcher (Stephen Kunken) is an engaging blend of gentle satire on our overprescribed culture and classic romantic comedy. Ethan McSweeny's sprightly production features fun supporting turns from Marylouise Burke and Elizabeth Rich (1:40). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Isherwood)
'Shatner's World: We Just Live in It...' (closes on Sunday) William Shatner -- the original Captain Kirk of ''Star Trek,'' later pitchman for Priceline.com -- reflects on his life and career in this often funny, sometimes rambling evening of anecdotes personal and professional. Strictly for Trekkies (1:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
- 'These Seven Sicknesses' (closes on Sunday) Over the course of this ambitious adaptation of Sophocles' seven surviving plays, blood erupts from just about every orifice, onto just about every article of clothing and just about every square inch of the narrow stage. Sophocles purists may not be happy with some of the changes, but in the end this gory five-hour production -- which includes breaks for a pan-Asian dinner and dessert -- remains vibrant, entertaining and fresh. That's no small feat considering its marathon length and 2,400-year-old roots (5:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Rampell)
'Yosemite' (closes on Saturday) Daniel Talbot's stormy dysfunctional family drama never entirely coheres persuasively (1:20). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Zinoman)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOW I LEARNED TO DRIVE': A first-rate revival of Paula Vogel's Pulitzer Prize winner. With Norbert Leo Butz and Elizabeth Reaser, above, playing a predatory uncle and his precocious niece, one of the most discomfiting love stories in the American theater returns with its power to rattle and stir undiluted (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); DEATH & DYING (74%); WRITERS (70%); MOUNTAINS (64%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: BLOOMSBURY GROUP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (51%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (51%)

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%); FRANK GEHRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); HIMALAYAS (85%); MOUNT EVEREST (85%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



72 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Will Wall Street Ever Face Justice?

BYLINE: By PHIL ANGELIDES. 
Phil Angelides, a former state treasurer of California, was the chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.

 BODY:
Sacramento
LAST week, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.proclaimed in a speech that when it comes to fighting financial fraud, the Obama administration's ''record of success has been nothing less than historic.'' Such self-congratulation is not only premature, but it also reveals a troubling lack of understanding about what is required to win the war against financial wrongdoing.
Four years after the disintegration of the financial system, Americans have, rightfully, a gnawing feeling that justice has not been served. Claims of financial fraud against companies like Citigroup and Bank of America have been settled for pennies on the dollar, with no admission of wrongdoing. Executives who ran companies that made, packaged and sold trillions of dollars in toxic mortgages and mortgage-backed securities remain largely unscathed. 
Meager resources have been applied to investigate the financial assault on our country, which wiped away trillions of dollars in household wealth and has resulted in 24 million people jobless or underemployed. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which Congress created to examine the full scope of the crisis, was given a budget of $9.8 million -- roughly one-seventh of the budget of Oliver Stone's ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps.'' The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations did its work on the financial crisis with only a dozen or so Congressional staff members.
Despite their limited budgets, both inquiries turned over rocks and exposed disturbing financial practices, and both entities referred potential violations of law to the Justice Department. The final reports from the two investigations were completed last year, but the resources that were needed to dig deep beneath those rocks -- or the rocks turned over by private litigants or other investigatory efforts -- weren't mobilized. One example: The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission's report contains evidence about Clayton Holdings, a company hired by more than 20 major financial institutions to perform ''due diligence'' on mortgage loans those companies were buying, bundling and selling. Clayton sampled 2 to 3 percent of those mortgages and found a significant number of defective loans. Yet the other 97 percent were not sampled, and that fact and the information about loan defects were never disclosed to investors -- ''raising the question,'' the report noted, ''of whether the disclosures were materially misleading, in violation of securities laws.''
In numerous court cases, plaintiffs, including the Federal Housing Finance Agency, have cited this evidence to support their claims of fraud and misrepresentation. But, inexplicably, there is no indication that the Justice Department promptly convened a high-level investigation to thoroughly examine who knew what when at these banks. In contrast, after the savings-and-loan debacle of the late 1980s, more than 1,000 bank and thrift executives were convicted of felonies. But today the rate of federal prosecutions for financial fraud is less than half of what it was then.
The belated creation of a Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, led by federal officials along with New York State's aggressive attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, offers hope that the needed surge of investigation and enforcement may finally be initiated. But for it to succeed, the Obama administration must give the group the wherewithal to do so.
First, the working group must have a strong and independent staff with the budget, expertise and training to do the job. This is vital given the bureaucratic inertia so far. Mr. Holder's commitment of 55 lawyers, investigators and other staff members is a start, but far short of what is needed. Keep in mind that the Dallas Bank Fraud Task Force from the savings-and-loan era, cited as a model at the time, had more than 100 law enforcement professionals on the job. And the new working group also needs to be free from political meddling, including from the House Republicans who have regularly run interference for their big-bank allies.
Second, bank regulators, who are currently not part of the group, should be. During the savings-and-loan crisis, regulators aided law enforcement by filing more than 30,000 suspicious-activity reports, making referrals and sharing expertise. During the deregulatory mania that led up to the crisis, regulators like the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision (since abolished) made next to no referrals. Regulators can begin to atone for their past laxity by helping the working group now.
Third, the working group's scope needs to be broader -- it should include mortgage origination, not just securitization. It should eschew a narrow view of mortgage fraud that focuses primarily on borrowers in favor of one that also encompasses the wholesale creation, sale and packaging of defective mortgages led by corporate executives.
Finally, the working group needs to prioritize the cases that caused the biggest losses and damage, moving with the creativity and flexibility that state attorneys general like Mr. Schneiderman have urged. The clock is ticking. During the S.&L. crisis, Congress extended the statute of limitations to 10 years from 5 for financial fraud affecting banks and some other types of financial institutions, but it's already been nearly eight years since the F.B.I.'s now famous warning of an epidemic of mortgage fraud. Congress should review the law to ensure that the 10-year period applies to the range of activities and institutions under investigation by the working group. And it should extend the statute of limitations if needed to permit a thorough investigation.
No one should seek or condone prosecutions for revenge or political purposes. But laws need to be enforced to deter future malfeasance. Just as important, the American people need to believe that a thorough investigation has been conducted; that our judicial system has been fair to all, regardless of wealth and power; and that wrongs have been righted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CLAYTON HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ERIC HOLDER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



73 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks to End Subsidy Of Oil and Gas Companies

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Helene Cooper reported from Nashua, and Jonathan Weisman from Washington. Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Fargo, N.D.

 BODY:
NASHUA, N.H. -- With his re-election fate increasingly tied to the price Americans are paying at the gas pump, President Obama asked Congress on Thursday to end $4 billion in subsidies for oil and gas companies and vowed to tackle the country's long-term energy issues while shunning ''phony election-year promises about lower gas prices.''
Mr. Obama, in an appearance at Nashua Community College here, took a page out of his jobs strategy of last year, calling on Americans to contact their Congressional representatives and demand a vote on the oil subsidies in the next few weeks. 
''You can either stand up for the oil companies, or you can stand up for the American people,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You can keep subsidizing a fossil fuel that's been getting taxpayer dollars for a century, or you can place your bets on a clean-energy future.''
The president criticized Republicans who have called for the country to increase its own oil production, declaring that ''anyone who tells you we can drill our way out of this problem doesn't know what they're talking about.'' With the United States consuming more than 20 percent of the world's oil while having only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, Mr. Obama said ''we can't rely on fossil fuels from the last century.''
Calling for renewed investment in alternative energy, he vowed to make a ''serious, sustained commitment to tackle a problem that may not be solved in one year or one term or even one decade.''
Mr. Obama's decision to spotlight his proposal to end oil and gas subsidies immediately opened him up to criticism from Republicans, who noted that the proposal was unlikely to help lower the price of gas at the pump. The office of the House speaker, John A. Boehner, sent an e-mail to reporters citing an analysis by the Congressional Research Service last March that found that ending the subsidies could make oil and natural gas more expensive.
Mr. Boehner also told reporters that after meeting with Mr. Obama at the White House on Wednesday, it did not appear that the president would support tapping into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as a way to curb rising gas prices.
''It didn't appear to me that the president believes using S.P.R. would have any meaningful effect on gas prices,'' Mr. Boehner said.
The oil reserve was created four decades ago to help the country deal with emergencies in oil supply.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, declined to say whether the president would tap into the reserves if gas prices continued to rise. Speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One en route to New Hampshire, Mr. Carney maintained that the president was fixed on long-term solutions to the country's oil dependence. Mr. Carney said oil companies ''do not deserve and do not need'' subsidies or tax breaks financed by taxpayers. He described the president as ''very concerned'' about the impact the spike in gas prices is having on American families.
Mr. Obama's political advisers are concerned as well, and have indicated privately that Mr. Obama would have a tough time winning re-election if the price at the pump reached or exceeded $5 a gallon.
In New Hampshire on Thursday, Mr. Obama chided Republicans who he said were hoping to gain political advantage from the rise in oil prices. ''Now I know this is hard to believe, but some politicians are seeing higher gas prices as a political opportunity,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You're shocked, aren't you? And right in the middle of an election year. Who would've thought?''
''Only in politics do people respond to bad news with such enthusiasm,'' he said.
Appearing in North Dakota on Thursday, one of Mr. Obama's Republican challengers, Mitt Romney, said the president was out of touch. North Dakota has benefited from the discovery of the Bakken Shale, an oil-rich deposit.
''Today the president is going to be in New Hampshire talking about energy in North Dakota,'' Mr. Romney said. ''He's about as far away from North Dakota as he can get and still be in the United States. His idea of course is to be far enough away from the people who know what's really going on right here to maybe try and blow one past folks.''
Republicans in Congress, struggling to regain their message as the economy improves, have latched on to rising oil prices and lobbed new accusations of culpability at the White House almost every day this week. But neither Republicans nor Democrats have been able to get legislative traction on their proposed solutions.
House Republican leaders tried to pay for a major transportation and infrastructure bill with receipts from federal lands they would open to oil drilling, but that legislative move appears to have collapsed. They continue to press the Obama administration to approve an oil pipeline that would stretch from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
''We are seeing some positive economic news, but it is being overshadowed for many families by soaring oil costs,'' Mr. Boehner said on Thursday, as he pressed the president to issue more oil leases in offshore areas and to hasten oil drilling permits.
For their part, Democrats blame speculators for the spike in oil prices, but efforts to mandate a review by the Federal Trade Commission have not gotten far, and the party is divided on whether to press for the release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Largely absent from the partisan bickering has been the role tensions over Iran have played in the price rise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama was in New Hampshire on Thursday, visiting the automotive building at Nashua Community College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (93%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



74 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Divisions Over Requiring Coverage

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown and Kim Severson in Atlanta, Steven Yaccino in Chicago, Malia Wollan in San Francisco, Ian Lovett in Los Angeles and Dan Frosch in Denver.

 BODY:
The close divide in a Senate vote Thursday over whether employers can refuse insurance coverage for contraception mirrors a sharp partisan divide among the public, according to a national poll and interviews with women around the country.
Over all, 63 percent of Americans said they supported the new federal requirement that private health insurance plans cover the cost of birth control, according to the survey of 1,519 Americans, conducted from Feb. 13 to Feb. 19 for the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
While 8 in 10 Democrats said they supported requiring birth control coverage, only 4 in 10 Republicans did. Six in 10 people calling themselves independents voiced approval. Many Americans, in the survey and in independent interviews, expressed impatience with the focus on women's reproductive issues in an era of economic distress. 
Jennifer Meyer, 27, of Sugar Creek, Mo., said in an interview that the current controversy over birth control coverage was ''a way for employers to get out of footing the bill by saying they don't agree with it.'' She called herself an independent, but said she was leaning toward Democrats as the ''lesser of two evils.''
Mollyann Brodie, director of survey research at the Kaiser foundation, said that since the vast majority of Americans approved of birth control, the divisions over the mandate might be more related to views on federal regulation. ''In the end, the answers say more about people's views on the role of government than on the issue of contraception,'' she said.
By a vote of 51 to 48, the Democratic-controlled Senate on Thursday voted down a proposal to overturn the contraception requirement brought by Republicans who call Mr. Obama's plan an assault on religious liberty.
In January, when the Obama administration announced that religiously affiliated institutions like colleges and hospitals would not be exempted from a requirement that all health plans cover birth control, Roman Catholic bishops said the policy would force them to violate their faith. Evangelical groups and Republican leaders took up the cause and have injected it into the presidential campaign.
Mr. Obama, Democratic leaders and many women's health advocates say the issue is a matter of basic health care and describe the opposition as part of a broader Republican war on women.
In the poll, the division was largely along partisan lines: 43 percent of Republican women said it was mainly a debate about religious freedom, while only 10 percent of Democratic women did.
Mary McNabb, 61, of Lenoir City, Tenn., said she was a Southern Baptist and was glad to see new attention focused on contraception and the Obama health care plan. She said the mandate was a violation of religious freedom.
''If a Catholic woman wants to take birth control, to go behind her priest's back, that's between her and God,'' she said. ''But I don't think other Catholics should have to pay for it.''
But she added: ''I don't think they should beat this horse to death. There are other important issues.''
The Kaiser survey found little evidence of a gap between men's and women's views of the contraceptive mandate. But it did suggest a significant age gap, especially within the Republican Party. Just over half of all Republicans ages 18 to 49 supported requiring contraceptive coverage, while only 33 percent of Republicans ages 50 and higher did so.
Despite the campaigns against the mandate by Republicans and conservative religious leaders, fewer than one percent of the people surveyed mentioned women's health or birth control when asked what issues they most wanted to hear candidates discuss.
Half said they believed the debate over contraception coverage ''is mostly being driven by election-year politics,'' and interviews with women around the country suggested that many, whatever their politics, think leaders should focus on other matters.
Salonika Evans, 21, a dental hygienist student in Columbus, Ga., called the debate a diversion from the real issue of jobs.
''I am sitting at home eating ramen noodles and everyone in the government is eating filet mignon and talking about birth control, and they are all men,'' said Ms. Evans, who calls herself an independent.
Marita Gallaway, 57, a social worker in Marion, Ind., who is against abortion and thinks the federal government is ''out of control,'' listed the war in Afghanistan, benefits for veterans, the aging population, education and the economy as things that are more important ''than who's going to pay for whose birth control.''
''Those are personal choices and personal issues,'' she said. ''War is not.''
Still, one in four people in the survey said women's reproductive health could be an important factor in their choice of political leaders.
Leila Borders, 26, a medical student at Mercer University in Savannah, Ga. who calls herself a conservative Democrat, said, ''I feel strongly that the attack that is being made on women's health through politics is something that our nation will look back on as a dark blemish.''
''In this political climate where those issues are up for legislation,'' she said, ''a candidate's stance would certainly determine my vote.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); HEALTH CARE (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



75 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Has a Day Of Sedate Testimony

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One clear sign that the economy is improving: a Senate hearing featuring the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, ended ahead of schedule Thursday after the committee members ran out of questions. 
It was one of the shortest and least contentious appearances that Mr. Bernanke has made on Capitol Hill since the recession started five years ago.
Mr. Bernanke repeated the Fed's assessment, which he delivered most recently to a House committee on Wednesday, that the domestic economy would grow modestly this year despite higher oil prices and turbulence in Europe.
''We don't see at this point that the very severe recession has permanently affected the growth potential of the U.S. economy,'' Mr. Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee.
He is required by law to appear before the committee twice a year to discuss the Fed's management of the nation's monetary policy.
Mr. Bernanke fielded a number of familiar critiques from Republican senators about the Fed's efforts to accelerate the pace of growth, but the exchanges lacked the intensity of Mr. Bernanke's previous appearances.
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, asked Mr. Bernanke whether the Fed's efforts to hold down interest rates were contributing to the rise in gasoline prices, by encouraging investors to buy oil and other commodities.
Mr. Bernanke said he saw no evidence of such an effect.
''The reason that we've seen these sharp movements has more to do with the international situation than with U.S. monetary policy,'' he said.
Mr. Bernanke also renewed his calls, at the urging of Republicans on the committee, for Congress to adopt a long-term plan to reduce the government's annual deficits.
He was in one respect more specific than he has been in the past, saying that Congress should aim to reduce the deficit over the next 10 to 15 years to reach a point where revenues cover all costs except interest payments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); DAVID VITTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



76 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Romney Reopens Whatever-It-Takes Playbook

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
When Gov. Rick Perry began rising in the polls, Mitt Romney was ready with a potent debate-night assault: under Mr. Perry, illegal immigrants in Texas received a $100,000 tuition break.
As Newt Gingrich surged, the Romney campaign dispatched colleagues of Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, to ridicule him as ''narcissistic'' and ''erratic'' in conference calls that required a sardonic pass code: ''Newt Gingrich is an unreliable leader.''
And with Rick Santorum persisting as a threat as 10 states prepare to vote on Tuesday, Mr. Romney unleashed an ad in Ohio on Thursday mocking him as an unprincipled flip-flopper.
The Romney campaign's shortcomings have been on vivid display in recent weeks, from verbal stumbles to a failure to stir the passions of the Republican base. 
But even his battered rivals acknowledge that Mr. Romney is proving unusually adept at defining, diminishing and disqualifying a serial cast of challengers through relentless attacks.
His campaign has deployed every tactic in the negative-campaign playbook. It has issued Twitter messages poking fun at Mr. Gingrich's penchant for rhetorical excess (with the hashtag #grandiosenewt). It created digital slogans and a letterhead disparaging Mr. Santorum's long career in government (''Rick Went to Washington,'' they read, ''and he never came back''). It created dozens of Web videos denigrating President Obama's economic leadership (''Obama isn't working''). And it benefited from the advertising onslaught unleashed against Mr. Romney's rivals by a ''super PAC'' backing him.
As successful as the strategy has been, though, it has raised questions about Mr. Romney's role in turning the primary process into something akin to a civil war, even as it has demonstrated a ferocious, whatever-it-takes style that could hearten Republicans if Mr. Romney ends up in a general election matchup against Mr. Obama.
''It's clear the negative ads are what's keeping this guy alive,'' said Nelson Warfield, a Republican strategist who worked for Mr. Perry. ''It seems like Republican primary voters will not vote for Mitt Romney unless they are forced into it. And the way they're forced into it is when he beats the other guy senseless.''
Throughout the campaign, Mr. Romney has also been on the receiving end of attacks from his Republican rivals as well as Democrats. But his aggressive style has been apparent since his first days in politics. For all that he can appear stiff and scripted at times, Mr. Romney has never shied away from deploying pointed and colorful broadsides against his opponents.
In his 1994 campaign against Senator Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts, it was Mr. Romney, a private equity executive new to politics, who fired off the first negative commercials. One of them featured grainy, slow-motion, black and white images of Mr. Kennedy painfully easing his body onto a park bench, before cutting to a full-color video of Mr. Romney.
The message was not lost on viewers: Mr. Kennedy, then 62, was old and out of shape, a fixture of the past; Mr. Romney, 47, was young and vigorous, a promise of the future.
Angry aides to Mr. Kennedy called it ''video sleaze.'' Robert M. Shrum, Mr. Kennedy's admaker, recalled thinking: ''You could see people sitting around in a room and laughing as they put it together. It was smarmy.''
But the commercials -- amplified by ads challenging Mr. Kennedy's Congressional record on crime and job creation -- helped turn what many analysts had expected to be a blowout into a surprisingly competitive race.
''We took on water because of it,'' Mr. Shrum said. ''They were effective.''
In 2002, when he ran for governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney vastly outspent his Democratic opponent, State Treasurer Shannon O'Brien, whom he depicted in debates, speeches and ads as a self-dealing and entrenched vestige of a bankrupt Boston political culture.
The Romney campaign arranged for a man in a chicken costume to trail Ms. O'Brien at campaign stops, to suggest she lacked political courage. It questioned her husband's ties to Enron, for whom he had once been a lobbyist.
And it rolled out a memorable television ad that portrayed Ms. O'Brien as a hapless basset hound, asleep on the floor as sinister-looking men walked out of a building with bags of money, a clever, if misleading image (employees of the state's previous treasurer had been accused of stealing money.)
She lost the election by a slim margin. ''When he ran positive ads, he wasn't winning,'' said Ms. O'Brien, who asserts that some of the ads from the Romney campaign ''bordered on dishonest.''
Mr. Romney's rivals have long feared the ability of his formidable message machine to tear opponents down. But they are also consoled, they said, by the fact that his campaigns have often struggled to create a positive image for him.
''I think that's Romney's M.O. His success in politics has come by running tough, hard, negative campaigns against opponents,'' said Tad Devine, who helped run Mr. Kennedy's campaign against Mr. Romney. ''And the thing about negative campaigns, and I have certainly seen this up close and from afar, is they come at a cost. When you spend most of your political capital doing that, it leaves you open.''
In 2007, when he first ran for president, Mr. Romney sent mailings in Iowa and New Hampshire suggesting that his rivals had a weak record on illegal immigration. (One featured photographs of Senator John McCain of Arizona and Rudolph W. Giuliani with digitally superimposed black eyes.) But Mr. Romney dropped out early in the primary season, avoiding the kind of nasty, drawn-out brawl that has become locked in this time around.
Current and former strategists said that in the early phase of his political life, Mr. Romney expressed some unease about attacking.
His willingness to engage in negative campaigning, they said, springs from a conviction -- rivals might call it a rationalization -- that he is a more capable and principled steward of government than his opponents.
Alex Castellanos, an adviser to Mr. Romney in the 2008 campaign, summed up the philosophy this way: ''If you disqualify a candidate, if you protect society from touching a hot stone, it's your responsibility to do that.''
Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney, said, ''Of course distinctions will be drawn in a campaign, but Governor Romney has been focused on his plans to create jobs and turn around the economy, unlike President Obama's failed policies.''
Of course, the Romney campaign has not been entirely negative -- more than half of his spending has been on ads considered positive, according to Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group. Many of them feature Mr. Romney's wife, Ann.
But negative commercials have accounted for nearly half of all the money Mr. Romney has spent on broadcast television advertising this election -- $5.7 million. That is roughly as much as Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Santorum and Representative Ron Paul of Texas have spent combined.
As with any campaign, it is the negative ads that most people remember, and political strategists have said that the Romney campaign produced the standout.
As part of its successful strategy to prevent Mr. Gingrich from winning Florida, Mr. Romney's team started digging around for news clips of the former speaker's ethics case. They found what they thought would make for a devastating ad: video from ''The NBC Nightly News'' on the day Mr. Gingrich was found guilty by his House colleagues. They produced a 30-second ad that consisted only of Tom Brokaw delivering the news. There was no announcer, no graphics with caustic allegations.
Then the campaign went for maximum exposure: It ran the ad 2,225 times over a five-day period, the most of any ad to appear on Florida television before the Jan. 31 primary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, top, in North Dakota on Thursday, used negative ads against Edward M. Kennedy in 1994, left, and more recently Newt Gingrich, right, in an ad entitled ''History Lesson.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROMNEY FOR PRESIDENT) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); TED KENNEDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



77 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Santorum, Defender of Free Market, Pushed in Congress to Protect Big Steel

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As he seeks the Republican nomination for the presidency, Rick Santorum has presented himself as a defender of the free market and opponent of bailouts for Wall Street and the auto industry, saying he has been consistent in putting his principles ahead of political pressures.
But as a congressman and then a senator from Pennsylvania, his record often defied those principles when it came to defending the interests of a political and economic powerhouse in his state: the steel industry. 
Again and again, as Big Steel faced crippling competition from abroad during the 1990s and early 2000s, Mr. Santorum joined Democratic and Republican lawmakers from steel-producing states to seek special protection in Washington for the industry, including direct subsidies, trade tariffs and import quotas.
At the time, Mr. Santorum and other allies of the industry said that a flood of low-priced imports unfairly undercut American steel producers and, in the process, threatened a sector that was vital to the nation's economic security.
''It's important to have a vibrant domestic source of steel,'' he said in a 2001 interview with The New York Times. He added that allowing the steel industry to falter ''would put this country on a path to overdependence, similar to oil, on foreign sources.''
But critics, including free-market advocates, said that it was difficult to reconcile the policies Mr. Santorum pursued in Congress with the campaign-trail stance he has taken against government meddling in the marketplace.
''We did not think of him as a free trader when it came to steel,'' said Lewis E. Leibowitz, the counsel for the Consuming Industries Trade Action Coalition, a group of steel-purchasing companies that opposed the policies Mr. Santorum backed on the grounds that they would raise the cost of steel products for American consumers.
While it is hardly unusual for a senator to come to the aid of an employer back home, Mr. Santorum's work on behalf of the steel industry is being raised in the election as he seeks to distinguish himself as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. Mr. Santorum's campaign did not respond to several requests for comment.
His record became an issue last week during the Republican presidential debate in Arizona, when Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, criticized him for having voted in favor of a ''bailout'' for the steel industry.
Mr. Santorum benefited directly from the relationship he established with steel. In his 16 years on Capitol Hill, he received nearly $350,000 in campaign donations from the steel industry, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research organization.
Mr. Santorum's strong support for steelmakers dates back to his earliest days in the House, where he served from 1991 to 1995 representing a district outside Pittsburgh in a region that had been hurt by the decline of the industry.
In November 1993, for example, he pushed the Clinton administration to back antidumping rules to protect the steel industry in return for his vote to approve landmark free trade legislation that the administration was trying to push through Congress.
But Mr. Santorum failed to convince the administration. ''It got to where the White House was not returning our calls,'' he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. ''I guess they feel they have the votes some other place.''
In the end, Mr. Santorum wound up voting against the North American Free Trade Agreement, which ultimately passed.
''You have to stare in the face of the folks you represent,'' he said at the time, explaining his decision.
He pushed on other fronts, too, particularly with the Clinton administration's refusal to aggressively pursue antidumping cases against foreign steel producers that the industry and its allies were demanding.
In June 1999, he was among a bipartisan group of lawmakers from steelmaking states who got behind a bill to impose tight quotas on foreign steel, even as the Clinton administration and its allies warned that the legislation would lead to protectionism.
After being approved in the House, the bill was defeated in the Senate.
Mr. Santorum appears to have taken a more prominent role in advocating on the industry's behalf with the change from a Democratic administration to a Republican one in 2001.
In an interview, former Representative Phil English, a Republican from Pennsylvania who once led the Congressional steel caucus, said Mr. Santorum was a main figure within the group in advancing its cause with the new Bush White House.
The role fell to Mr. Santorum, he said, because he had good relationships within the White House. In particular, Mr. Santorum worked to persuade the Bush administration to impose tariffs on imported steel -- a move that some Bush aides felt would undercut the president's standing as a free trader.
In the end, President George W. Bush approved temporary tariffs in March 2002 on imported steel from certain countries, saying it would give domestic producers ''breathing room,'' even as critics accused him of trying to bolster his political standing in industrial states like Pennsylvania that he had failed to win in 2000.
Mr. English said the role Mr. Santorum played in lobbying the administration had often been overlooked by the very people who benefited. ''He was on good terms with them,'' he said, referring to Bush officials. ''Senator Santorum was never given credit for this effort by the steelworkers.''
But a year later, Mr. Santorum found himself on the opposite side of the Bush administration, which was attempting to repeal a law on tariffs imposed because of antidumping cases pursued by steelmakers and other industries. The law had diverted the tariff revenues from the Treasury to the industries, and many trading partners of the United States had decried it, saying that that it encouraged American industries to pursue the cases by rewarding them with a government subsidy.
But Mr. Santorum joined dozens of other senators, Republicans and Democrats alike, who sent a letter defending the law and urging the Bush administration to support it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As a senator in 1999, Rick Santorum spoke to steelworkers and their families about blocking foreign steel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (69%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



78 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 540 words

PERSON: Terri Dial 

HEADLINE: Terri Dial, 62, Executive at Citi and Wells Fargo

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Terri Dial, who climbed the ranks of Wells Fargo from bank teller to senior executive before being tapped to revamp Citigroup's consumer banking business during the financial crisis, died on Tuesday in Miami. She was 62.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Karen Kaplowitz, a friend. Ms. Dial, who lived in San Francisco; Napa, Calif., and Miami, died in a hospice.
Although she spent most of her career at Wells Fargo, Ms. Dial's brief tenure at Citigroup may have been her most prominent role in finance. She was among the first major hires of Vikram S. Pandit, who became chief executive of the bank in December 2007, but she left two years later in a management shake-up. 
During a four-decade career in finance, Ms. Dial was regularly one of only a few top female executives at a Fortune 500 company. In 2009, she was on Forbes magazine's list of the 100 most powerful women. When she ran the consumer business at Lloyds the TSB Group, based in London, The Telegraph newspaper ranked her No. 27 on its list of the 50 most influential Americans in Britain in 2007.
Ms. Dial, friends said, was also known for mentoring other female bankers using a mix of encouragement and blunt honesty. She often opened her corporate housing in New York to hold cocktail parties for fellow female executives at Citigroup.
Teresa Arlene Dial was born on Oct. 30, 1949, and grew up in Miami. She graduated from Northwestern University with a bachelor's degree in political science in 1971.
After school, Ms. Dial landed a job as a bank teller at a Wells Fargo branch in San Francisco. She met her husband, Brian Burry, during a management training session at the bank. The couple married in 1980.
He survives her, as does her sister, Donna Dial, in Florida.
By 1989, Ms. Dial had ascended to executive vice president at Wells Fargo, overseeing small-business lending. She became a vice chairman in 1996, a title she kept until she helped arrange the bank's 1998 merger with the Norwest Corporation. She retired from the bank in 2001.
Her finance career took an international turn in 2005, when she moved to London to steer consumer banking at Lloyds. At the time, her fierce work schedule drew notice in the British press, which referred to her as ''the human cyclone.''
In a 2006 interview with American Banker, Ms. Dial welcomed the nickname, saying, ''I don't know where'' it originated, ''but it's not a bad thing.''
Beth Webster, whom Ms. Dial hired at Citigroup, said, ''Terri had two speeds -- fast and faster.''
In 2008, as the financial crisis intensified, Mr. Pandit recruited her to lead Citigroup's struggling consumer division.
She stanched deep losses at the unit, but soured loans continued to damp results. By early 2010, she left the prominent position, citing personal reasons. She did, however, stay at Citigroup as a senior adviser.
Outside the office, Ms. Dial was involved in philanthropic projects, including Citymeals-on-Wheels and Legal Momentum, a legal defense and education fund
''Terri was more than a great businesswoman,'' Mr. Pandit said in an e-mail to staff on Wednesday. ''She was also a mentor to dozens of women who will never forget her wise counsel.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terri Dial, ''human cyclone.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CITIGROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); WOMEN (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); MANAGER TRAINING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CANCER (72%); HOSPICE (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (66%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (62%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); LYG (NYSE) (85%); LLOY (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%)

VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



79 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
VIETNAM'S NUCLEAR DREAMS
BLOSSOM DESPITE DOUBTS
As Vietnam scrambles to find enough experts to operate and regulate its new nuclear power industry, critics worry the efforts will be troubled by corruption and poor safety standards. Page A4
AZERBAIJAN'S LEADERS YIELD 
A crowd of angry protesters in Azerbaijan massed outside the home of a provincial governor, demanding his ouster as the house was consumed in flames. The national government responded by dismissing the governor. Page A8
SERBIA IS CANDIDATE FOR E.U.
Serbia formally became a candidate for European Union membership in a significant advance for a nation once ostracized for its role in the Balkan wars of the 1990s. Page A8
ISRAEL PLANS MISSILE TEST
Israel, in an unusual move, announced on Thursday that it would soon conduct the first test of an advanced antiballistic missile system designed to intercept incoming missiles from enemies like Syria and Iran. Page A8
REFORM BILL SCALED BACK
The Italian Senate approved a set of measures aimed at fostering economic growth, but critics said that many of the proposals had been watered down under political pressure. Page A10
National
OBAMA CALLS FOR INVESTMENT
IN NEW SOURCES OF ENERGY
President Obama asked Congress to end $4 billion in subsidies for oil and gas companies and vowed to tackle the country's long-term energy issues while shunning ''phony election-year promises about lower gas prices.'' Page A12
PAY PHONES ANGER TROOPS
A lawsuit has drawn attention to American service members' accusations that they are gouged at pay phones in troops-only airport lounges in Germany while heading to combat zones. Page A13
HOUSE PASSES BRIDGE BILL
The House overwhelmingly approved legislation to allow construction of a new $700 million bridge between Minnesota and Wisconsin, a project that has drawn comparisons to earmarks and required a Congressional exemption from a landmark environmental law. Page A14
New York
FUGITIVE U.S. KILLER AVOIDS
EXTRADITION FROM PORTUGAL
The United States has lost its effort to win the return of George Wright, who escaped a New Jersey prison in 1970 and hijacked a jetliner for ransom two years later. Page A19
Business
AUTO SALES PICK UP PACE
DESPITE RISING GAS PRICES
Auto sales jumped 16 percent last month to the highest level since before the recession, helped by declining unemployment and improving consumer confidence even as gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon in parts of the country. Page B1
SLATE TO BEGIN BOOK REVIEW
Slate will introduce a monthly book review, the latest expansion of literary criticism online as stand-alone book review sections in newspapers have dwindled. The section will nearly triple the number of book-related articles that Slate publishes. Page B2
RETAIL SALES BEAT ESTIMATES
Sales at stores open at least a year, also known as same-store sales, increased by 4.7 percent in February, according to the Thomson Reuters tally of 18 retailers. That was far bigger than the 3.4 percent increase analysts had expected. Page B3
Sports
DEAL REACHED ON STADIUM
FOR MINNESOTA AND VIKINGS
After years of fits and starts, the Vikings and Minnesota's top political leaders unveiled a tentative agreement to build a $975 million stadium next to the aging Metrodome in Minneapolis. Page B11
Weekend
JERUSALEM UNDER SIEGE,
A SORCERESS INTERVENES
Francisco Negrin sets his new production of ''Rinaldo'' for the Lyric Opera of Chicago as a parable about the difficult quest for enlightenment and the temptation of the dark side. Page C3
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); SAME STORE SALES (87%); RETAIL SALES (87%); BOOK REVIEWS (87%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HIJACKING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); RECESSION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (65%); LITIGATION (64%); EXTRADITION (63%); LITERATURE (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) AZERBAIJAN (94%); VIET NAM (93%); SERBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GERMANY (78%); ITALY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012



80 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Peres Says U.S. Must Put All Iran Options on Table

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
Days before Israel's president, Shimon Peres, was to meet with President Obama, Mr. Peres said on Thursday that the United States must make clear to Iran that ''all options are on the table,'' but he acknowledged that there was disagreement over where to draw the ''red line'' that would set off military intervention.
''We need a total and clear commitment that the catastrophe of Iran will not create an impossible situation,'' Mr. Peres said in an hourlong interview at a Manhattan hotel. ''If you can achieve it by economic and political measures, yes, that's the best way to start. But in order that the Iranians will take it seriously, you have to say, 'Gentlemen, we'll try the way which may be the best, but all the other options are on the table.' 
''You have to be decisive,'' he said. ''You have to make a choice.''
Mr. Peres -- who at 88 has held virtually every post in Israeli government and in defining his current role said, ''The prime minister is to rule, the president is to charm'' -- is scheduled to see Mr. Obama on Sunday. The prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, meets Mr. Obama on Monday.
Though the Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz reported last week that Mr. Peres planned to tell Mr. Obama he did not believe Israel should make a unilateral strike against Iran, on Thursday Mr. Peres did not directly address that issue. Instead, he emphasized the importance of international solidarity against a nuclear Iran, which he characterized as a ''catastrophe.''
''This is an unavoidable situation,'' he said. ''It's not exactly the Nazi situation, but my God, what a catastrophe.''
In a wide-ranging conversation that touched on the Palestinian conflict, the Arab Spring, Israeli cultural identity, racial discrimination, economic globalization and the Ten Commandments, Mr. Peres repeatedly invoked the importance of technology and a young generation, declaring at one point that ''all ideologies are practically dead.'' Despite the radical transformations in the politics of the countries surrounding his, Mr. Peres, who shared the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize for his role in the Oslo Accords, said that he still believed in discreet diplomacy as a path to peace, and that he continued to have meetings on all sides about the prospects for a two-state solution.
''I can say jokingly that peace and love are alike: you cannot achieve either of them unless you close your eyes,'' he said. ''Negotiation is not a matter of give and take. Every solution that exists is dead. If you have two solutions, don't waste the time in trying to convince the other party about your solution. Try to create a third solution, which is unknown.''
Regarding Egypt, Mr. Peres said that the Muslim Brotherhood ''won the Parliament; they didn't win the situation,'' adding that ''the real problem of Egypt and the Middle East is poverty, not politics.'' He avoided addressing the rise of political Islamists around the region in the wake of popular uprisings.
The interview took place in a suite at the Regency Hotel, surrounded by guards and behind a bulletproof pane they had placed in front of a window, a vase of flowers sandwiched between them on the sill. It came amid his new Facebook campaign, ''Be My Friends for Peace,'' yet the conversation was infused with his long perspective.
''When I remember those days, Israel was not a state, Israel was a doubt,'' he recalled. ''When I compare the present situation with the then-existing situation, then we were more desperate. My heart doesn't fall easily. I am talking out of experience.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about an interview with President Shimon Peres of Israel paraphrased incorrectly from his comments on what might happen if the White House was not resolute in its stance against Iran's nuclear program. Mr. Peres emphasized the importance of international solidarity against the possibility of a nuclear Iran; he did not suggest that Israel might have to act alone against Iran.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Shimon Peres says the White House must be resolute or Israel may have to go it alone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); DISCRIMINATION (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



81 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Lumire | Paris in Pictures

BYLINE: ELAINE SCIOLINO


HIGHLIGHT: This latest tome in Taschen's series of bigger-is-better photography books on great cities needs to spread out on a coffee table of its own. 

 BODY:
Weighing in at 10 pounds and 624 pages, "Paris: Portrait of a City" is too heavy to cuddle up with on the couch. This latest tome in Taschen's series of bigger-is-better photography books on great cities needs to spread out on a coffee table of its own.
Why another photo book on the most photogenic city in the world, you might ask? One answer is that Taschen has already published similar photographic portraits of New York, Los Angeles and Berlin; London comes next.
Another is that this book is a photographic study of more than 160 years of the city's history through the eyes of Jean Claude Gautrand, a 79-year-old photographer and photo editor who is one of France's most eminent experts on photography. Gautrand spent three and a half years deep in the archives, libraries and private collections of Paris, sifting through hundreds of thousands of files, searching for unknown images by anonymous photographers to pair with what he calls "the greats."
"I was born here. Paris is in my roots. It's my universe," the slim, goateed Gautrand said in an interview in his modest apartment on the eastern edge of Paris. It is decorated with dozens of antique cameras he bought at flea markets and hundreds of photography books, some of them written and edited by him, including Taschen's wildly popular "Paris, Mon Amour." "And Paris happens to be the first city in the world to acquire a photographic record of itself."
The city has indeed been a visual banquet throughout Gautrand's professional lifetime. The 20th-century photographer Willy Ronis, "a great pal," he said, lived across the street; Georges Brassa, another 20th-century master, was "more than a pal, he was a real friend."
Gautrand chose more than 500 photographs, most of them black and white, for his opus. It documents the transformation of the Paris landscape with ambitious building projects, as well as many of the monumental events of the city's past: the 1870 proletarian revolt known as the Commune; the construction of the Eiffel Tower; the Nazi Occupation (including a photo of Hitler posing in front of the Eiffel Tower) and the Liberation; and the riots of May 1968.
It illustrates the before-and-after effect of Baron Haussmann's demolition of 20,000 houses and entire streets and , as well as the destruction of Baltard's cast-iron masterpiece, Les Halles, in 1971 (the subject of a book of photographs by Gautrand himself).
And who knew that Emile Zola took hundreds of photographs of the Universal Exposition of 1900 from the top of the Eiffel Tower? One photo shows the Iena bridge and the Romano-Moorish Palais du Trocadro, razed in 1938 to make way for the Palais de Chaillot.
Yet the books also captures more intimate moments, scenes of everyday pleasure, routine and suffering: on the streets, park benches and bridges; in the cafes, nightclubs, strip joints, parks, artists' ateliers. One daring undated photo between the two world wars shows women - some of them elegantly dressed as men - socializing in a popular lesbian nightclub.
The book also celebrates the technical achievements of the French, starting with the shadowy images of Louis Jacques Mand Daguerre, who invented photography when he succeeded in fixing an image formed inside a camera on a silver plate. (His high-contrast 1839 photograph of the Boulevard du Temple at 8 a.m. needed an exposure time of 20 to 30 minutes. It shows the first human silhouette ever captured by a camera.)
An 1860 stereoscope of bare-armed laundrywomen, their bosoms partially exposed, evokes a sense of both immediacy and movement. A 1907 view of a Paris street by the Lumire brothers using the Autochrome technique they developed is one of the world's first color photographs.
The book also includes familiar images by the most well-known of Paris photographers: Robert Capa's Dior models; Robert Doisneau's "The Kiss in Front of the Hotel de Ville," taken for Life Magazine in 1950. Marville, Atget, Lartigue, Brassa, Kertsz, Ronis and Cartier-Bresson are also represented.
Yet Gautrand is more proud of the photographs by anonymous or little-known photographers. "They were instinctive, expressive, working in the present, very unlike those who were more experienced and aiming for an aesthetic look," he said. "But those images sometimes make you feel as if you've walked into a museum."
The photo of the funeral of Victor Hugo, a procession that was attended by 800,000 people, is, for him, "an extraordinary thing - someone on the street took it." So is the photo of one of the most spectacular accidents of the day: a steam train careening through the platform and facade of the Montparnasse railway station in 1895. Likewise a 1900 photo of a goat milk vendor on a city street with his goats serving milk to two little girls, and a 1929 photo of the unemployed lining up for food.
Gautrand said he had intense discussions with the publisher Benedikt Taschen about some of the choices. "He wanted a more aesthetic approach; I was the Parisian," Gautrand said. One disagreement focused on the cover: Helmut Newton's 1976 color photo "Bergstrm Over Paris," which shows the model Gunilla Bergstrm reclining, in nothing but strappy, gray high-heeled pumps, diamond-and-pearl earrings and heavy makeup, in front of a plate-glass window. She gazes into her reflection in a mirror. Unexceptional Paris buildings lay below. "The editor wants to sell," Gautrand said with a smile. (At $69.99, it's a deal.)
An enormous poster of the cover hangs in Gallimard, the elite Paris bookstore on the Boulevard Raspail, even though Anne Ghisoli, the manager, has her doubts about it. "This is a super-beautiful book with breathtaking photos," she said. "But the cover has nothing to do with the contents of the book. It's a bad clich."
It also may come as a disappointment that the book virtually omits photography over the last four decades. The only 21st-century entries are a photo of a grim-faced Karl Lagerfeld in a sports car and a fanciful picture of a woman held aloft in the Paris sky by a bunch of balloons. "We don't have the historical distance to judge, to reflect," Gautrand said, explaining the gap. "After the 1960s, Paris has been asleep culturally. The last great photograph of Paris was taken ... in 1968."

        
Photographers Without Borders
        
Almodovar on Almodovar
        
Asked & Answered | Charlotte Rampling
        
In Love and War
        
Book Shelf | '75 Years of DC Comics'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (92%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HISTORY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RIOTS (60%) Georges Brassai; Gunilla Bergstrom; helmut newton; Jean Claude Gautrand; Paris: Portrait of a City; Robert Capa; Robert Doisneau; Taschen; Victor Hugo; Willy Ronis; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



82 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Carlyle Buys 85% Stake in Brazil's Largest Toy Retailer

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: The private equity firm says it plans to invest $116.8 million in the toy retailer over the next three years as it increases its presence in Brazil. 

 BODY:
The Carlyle Group is betting big on Brazil's rising middle class.
Caryle, a Washington-based private equity firm, announced on Friday that it had acquired an 85 percent stake in Ri Happy, Brazil's largest toy chain, for an undisclosed amount. The firm plans to invest 200 Brazilian reais ($116.8 million) in the toy retailer over the next three years.
"This is a segment with significant growth potential in Brazil," said Juan Carlos Felix, Carlyle's managing director for Brazil. "Our investment in the Ri Happy chain demonstrates Carlyle's commitment to Brazil, expanding our footprint throughout the country."
Since its first Brazilian investment in late 2009, Carlyle has steadily increased its exposure to the country's bustling consumer market. It owns major stakes in CVC, a tourism operator, and Scalia, a major Brazilian lingerie retailer. Last year, the firm raised $1 billion for investments in Brazil and South America. At the time of the announcement, Carlyle's co-founder, David M. Rubenstein, described South America as a "vital part" of its international strategy.
Though Brazil's economy has recently been bogged down by Europe's debt crisis and concerns about stalling growth, it has a large and growing middle-class population. In December, retail sales volume rose 0.3 percent from November, according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistic. Sales were up 6.7 percent from December 2010. The growing base of consumers -and their willingness to spend -- has benefited domestic and international retailers. For instance, Mattel, the maker of Barbie, said Latin American sales grew 14 percent to nearly $1 billion in 2011. The country is now its second-largest market, behind the United States.
With Ri Happy, Carlyle is trying to find opportunity in Brazil's fragmented toy market. The company has an online store and 114 brick-and-mortar locations and 2,300 employees.
"We began with small steps, have reached a large size and now need a partner to continue our growth," Ricardo Sayon, Ri Happy's co-founder said in a statement.

        
Goldman and Cinven to Sell Ahlsell for $2.4 Billion
        
Carlyle Appoints Co-Heads for Middle East and North Africa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (93%); TOYS & GAMES (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); EURO CRISIS (51%) Carlyle; David M. Rubenstein; Ri Happy; Rubenstein, David; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Toys; Brazil; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Private Equity; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (92%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Rubenstein, David

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (74%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



83 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: In Debut on Market, Yelp Stock Surges 64%

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Yelp's story is one felt across the local advertising industry on the Internet: great potential, strong sales, but no earnings - yet. 

 BODY:
Yelp may not yet be profitable, but investors still gave the company rave reviews in its debut.
Stock in Yelp, an online hub for local businesses, soared in its first day of trading on Friday, rising 63.9 percent to close at a $24.58. At that price, the company has a market value of $1.47 billion, reflecting renewed demand for newly public technology stocks.
Like many Silicon Valley start-ups, Yelp is capitalizing on the growing market for user-generated content. The company provides a free forum for consumers to detail their opinions on restaurants, dentists and other local businesses, attracting 66 million users a month. Last year, Yelp, which makes most of its money from advertising, recorded $83.3 million in revenue, a 74 percent increase from 2010.
 But the company is struggling to turn a profit. In 2011, Yelp lost $16.9 million.
It's the same story across the local advertising industry on the Internet: great potential, strong sales, but no earnings. Angie's List, a review site for local services like home repair and catering, posted a loss of $5.9 million in the fourth quarter. Groupon, the daily deals giant, nearly tripped its revenue to $506.5 million and it lost $42.7 million in the same period.
"None of these companies will keep their value if they don't become profitable in the next year," said Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities analyst.
While local advertising dollars are increasingly shifting online, companies need to spend significantly on sales and marketing to grab their share of the business. In less than four years, Groupon's payroll has swelled from a couple of hundred employees to roughly 10,000.
At Yelp, the cost of sales and marketing has risen sharply for each of the last three years, according to its prospectus. In 2011, that category rose 60.8 percent, to $54.5 million. The amount spent on product development - like improving its site - increased more than 76 percent last year, to $11.6 million.
"The local advertising business is hard to scale," said Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Forrester Research, which follows the industry. "Someone needs to essentially knock on the doors of these businesses."
For sites like Yelp, small businesses can be a tough sell. The potential for the local advertising markets is large, but many companies have been slow to move online.
Yelp's numbers illustrate that gap. Roughly 606,000 businesses have set up profiles. But just 24,000 - less than 4 percent - actually pay Yelp any money.
"There's a huge myth about the budget of local advertisers," Ms. Mulpuru said. "Local businesses will become more sophisticated but it's going to take a while."
Yelp's services are also more costly than those of some peers, Mr. Pachter said. According to his research, Yelp is charging retailers several hundreds of dollars for every 1,000 impressions, or user views, compared with a few dollars at other sites.
A Yelp impression may be worth more, since the site generally catches users when they are close to a purchase decision. But the local businesses may not be willing to pay the premium, which could hamper Yelp's growth.
"Yelp costs significantly more," Mr. Pachter said. "Do businesses want to spend 30 to 60 cents per customer to show an ad?"
The field is also increasingly crowded. Groupon has battled hundreds of clones at home and abroad. Facebook, the social networking giant that is to go public this year, has also signaled a desire to become a bigger player in the local advertising market.
And Yelp has faced stiff competition from Google, a former ally and still its No. 1 source of traffic. Yelp has accused the search giant of prioritizing Google products over its own and using content from its reviews without permission.
"Given the large volume of traffic to our Web site and the importance of the placement and display of results of a user's search, similar actions in the future could have a substantial negative effect on our business and results of operations," the company warned in its latest filing.
Regardless, many analysts say Yelp could be a strong contender in the market, given its active user base and the large amount of data it owns. The start-up's chief executive, Jeremy Stoppelman, often highlights the advantages of such a community, which "generates an enormous amount of content that no one else has," he said.
"We're scratching the surface," he added. "There's millions of local businesses that we can reach out and have a relationship with."

        
Yelp Prices Its Offering at $15 a Share
        
Yelp Files for I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (87%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (79%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); STARTUPS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%) Angie's List; Google; Groupon; Yelp; E-Commerce; Online Advertising; Social Networking (Internet); Yelp|YELP|NYSE; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology

COMPANY: YELP! INC (92%); ANGIE'S LIST INC (58%); GROUPON INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC TECHNOLOGY INC (57%) Yelp

TICKER: YELP (NYSE) (92%); ANGI (NASDAQ) (58%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%) Yelp; YELP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



84 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: In Texas, University's Success Is Not All About Graduation Rates

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Because of its student demographic, the University of Texas at El Paso would like to see its success judged by criteria other than four-year graduation rates. 

 BODY:
There are many factors that make a university attractive to prospective students: its reputation, its location, its academic rigor.
A college's graduation rate, however, shouldn't be one of those factors, according to Diana Natalicio, the president of the University of Texas at El Paso. Our colleagues at the Texas Tribune have published the first of a four-part series on lagging graduation rates at public institutions in Texas.
(Ms. Natalicio) eschews commonly accepted higher-education measures like graduation rates, which show that just one out of 10 freshmen entering UTEP graduate within four years. She said UTEP, which has more than 18,000 undergraduate students and accepts nearly 97 percent of its applicants, aimed to demonstrate that a university "could actually achieve both access and excellence."
The highest four-year graduation rate at a public Texas university is 53 percent at the University of Texas at Austin, hardly boast-worthy. In a nod to the growing span of the typical college experience, the six-year graduation rate has become the standard in higher-education measures. In Texas, it is roughly 49 percent, which ranks 17th in the country, according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. At UTEP, just 35 percent of students have graduated after six years; only 46 percent get their degrees in a decade. 
Critics say UTEP and other Texas universities are failing in their core responsibility of graduating students, although the state's completion crisis is far from the worst. But with predictions that more than 60 percent of the nation's jobs will require a higher-education credential in 2020, the same critics say that Texas' public universities are lagging in their mission to prepare the state work force for the future, potentially creating major economic implications.
Ms. Natalicio said the university is working on improvements. But she questions whether the statistics accurately reflect the success of an institution serving a majority-minority community made up mostly of students who historically might not have been able to pursue higher education.
You may read the full report here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); GRADUATION RATES (92%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%) Colleges and Universities; Graduation Rates; University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at El Paso; Texas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (94%) University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at El Paso

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



85 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: A look at the sort of wine and cocktails the passengers drank on the maiden/final voyage of the Titanic. "Corks that survived the sinking later identified Champagne selections from Mot and Heidsieck & Co." ... -- Robert Simonson
WNET: ... And as the centenary of the disaster looms, plans are afoot for Dine Titanic, a re-creation of the last dinner served on board: 7 courses (instead of the original 10), including squab with asparagus and something called Consomme Olga. -- Patrick Farrell
The Chicago Tribune: Chefs on where they most want to eat now. -- Julia Moskin
Eater: A video homage to the famous and Fred Flintstone-worthy mutton chop at Keens. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Guardian: Disney's Epcot resort closes a new healthy-living attraction for children after complaints that it would stigmatize overweight kids. You think so? Habit Heroes, as it was known, featured obese cartoon villains called Snacker, Lead Bottom and the Glutton. -- Patrick Farrell 
Oenos Rising: The economic crisis in Greece has been devastating for wineries, particularly those that rely primarily on the Greek market for sales. -- Eric Asimov 
: Amid praise and grumbling, the new meat-labeling law of the Agriculture Department's Food Inspection and Safety Service went into effect on Thursday. It requires the listing of nutritional information on raw meat and poultry products; such labels were previously required only on cooked, ready-to-eat products or those with marinades. -- Glenn Collins
Learn Italian Wines: Tom Hyland reports on the newly released 2007 Brunellos di Montalcinos and 206 riservas. -- Eric Asimov 
Dr. Vino: French vintner Nicolas Joly, a leading voice in biodynamic wine circles, holds forth about the problems with the appellation system, the wine media and "technological" wines. -- Robert Simonson
Esquire: Mitt Romney is not going to like the name of this cocktail.... -- Jeff Gordinier
The Washington Post: ... And Mr. Romney will surely want to duck this debate: Which tastes better, his mom's 1960s hamburger stronganoff or his wife's of-the-moment turkey burgers? The Post critic Tom Sietsema makes the call. -- Patrick Farrell
On Earth: An epic look at what needs to be done to save the seas. -- Jeff Gordinier
Poetry Foundation: From Ron Rash, a vivid poem about trout. -- Jeff Gordinier
Mother Jones: The ugly struggle over energy, environment and jobs involving the massive Keystone pipeline from Canada to Texas has now landed in a 38-acre pasture owned by Julia Trigg Crawford in Direct, Tex. Her 64-year-old Red Arc Farm, which grows soy beans, wheat and corn, is the center of a legal donnybrook over the right of TransCanada, the Keystone builder, to construct a domestic pipeline by seizing her property through eminent domain. -- Glenn Collins 
The New York Times: The teary countdown at Bill's Gay Nineties Restaurant and Piano Bar, which Prohibition didn't shut down but a landlord will. -- Patrick Farrell
The Wall Street Journal: The best New York City block for wine lovers? (Hint: Gramercy Tavern.) -- Patrick Farrell
: There'll always be an England: gardening to welcome the Olympic games starts now. --Julia Moskin
Bon Apptit: Jake Gyllenhaal likes getting his hands dirty. And that makes Alice Waters smile. -- Jeff Gordinier 
LA Weekly: A cookbook for tofu obsessives. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Gross-out of the day: what one man says he found in the artichoke dip he bought at Fairway. Save this link for after lunch. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); WINERIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); MEATS (74%); OBESITY (73%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); CHILDREN (73%); POULTRY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD SAFETY (70%); PRODUCT LABELING (70%); FOOD LABELING (70%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (70%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (70%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (70%); FOOD INSPECTION (69%); EURO CRISIS (66%); POETRY (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



86 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Black and Gold Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Wearing the company's customary black and gold livery, a racecar based on the Lotus Exige is scheduled to race in the FIA European Rally Championship this year. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 The Lotus Exige R-GT, with a body based on the refreshed Exige S unveiled at the Frankfurt auto show last September, will be campaigned in the FIA European Rally Championship this year. Lotus International Rally, the newly formed team, is to receive seven cars this year, with three models going to privateers. The R-GT is expected to make its race debut at the Rally 1,000 Miglia in Brescia, Italy, in April. (Lotus Cars)
 According to a recent report, Nissan may resurrect the Datsun name for vehicle sales in Russia, India and Indonesia. The Nikkei reported this week that Nissan hoped to sell 300,000 Datsun-badged vehicles annually in the emerging markets. The cars would be priced close to the equivalent of $6,200. Nissan ceased using the Datsun badge in the United States in the early '80s, but phased out its use in Asia slightly later. (Reuters)
 On Friday, Ford released fuel-economy estimates from the Environmental Protection Agency for the automaker's Focus Electric. The purely electric hatchback, priced at $39,995, received a combined miles-per-gallon-equivalent rating of 105. Last year, the Nissan Leaf received a combined rating of 99 m.p.g.e. Ford also highlighted the E.P.A. sticker for the Focus Electric, which stated the E.V.'s range at 76 miles, 3 miles higher than the rating received by the Leaf. (Ford Motor)
 Audi, which recently announced the highest annual profit in the brand's history, intends to campaign a diesel-hybrid version of its R18 Le Mans prototype racecar. The all-wheel-drive R18 e-tron Quattro has two electric motors mounted to the front axle, each of which reportedly generates 100 additional horsepower to support the 510-hp, 3.7-liter V-6 TDI engine. Kinetic energy recovered during deceleration would be available to the motors at speeds over 75 miles an hour. (Car and Driver)

        
Wheelies: The Skunkworks Edition
        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
Honda Cedes Top Spot to Subaru in Consumer Reports Study
        
Wheelies: The Exit Velocity Edition
        
Ford Is Covering Seats in Soda Bottles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%) Audi; datsun; e-tron; Focus Electric; Ford; Le Mans; lotus exige; Nissan; Quattro; rally racing; Russia; Automobiles; Le Mans Auto Race; Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Ford Motor Co; Lotus Cars Ltd; Nissan Motor Co; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; Electric Vehicles; Environment; Motorsports

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%) Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Ford Motor Co; Lotus Cars Ltd; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) GERMANY (90%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



87 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Furor Over Report Hints at a Chinese Policy Debate

BYLINE: DAVID BARBOZA


HIGHLIGHT: The fierce reaction to the World Bank assessment of China's state-capitalism system hints at a ferocious debate within the government as the nation prepares for a leadership transition. 

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- When the World Bank and a Chinese research organization called on Beijing policy makers this week to scale back the power of state-owned companies, reform-minded economists offered praise. But not everyone is pleased.
The 448-page report, "China 2030," urged China to rethink the government's role in managing the economy and move toward a more market-oriented system. According to Tuesday's online edition of The 21st Century Business Herald, a respected Chinese publication, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission sharply criticized the report even before it was released to the public on Monday.
The commission, a powerful Beijing organization with oversight of some of the biggest centrally controlled state companies, sent a letter to the study's authors arguing that reducing state involvement in the economy would be "unconstitutional" and effectively "subvert the basic economic system of socialism."
A person who answered the telephone Wednesday at the commission's headquarters in Beijing declined to discuss the report. On Friday, the World Bank declined to comment on opposition from the commission. And a spokesman for the Development Research Center, the Chinese organization that helped produce the study, could not be reached late Friday.
But one person with knowledge of how the report was produced confirmed that there was strong opposition from the commission.
The views expressed by the state group are similar to those held by Du Jianguo, an independent scholar who disrupted the World Bank press conference in Beijing on Tuesday by handing out pamphlets and declaring, "This report from the World Bank is poison!"

Photographs of the news conference show that Mr. Du, an editor at an environmental magazine, had to be forcibly removed. He is not a representative of any state-owned company, he said in a telephone interview.
But the episode -- and the article in The 21st Century Business Herald -- hints at a ferocious debate now playing out in China, as the country prepares for its once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.
With Chinese leaders jockeying for spots on the all-powerful nine-member Standing Committee of the Politburo of the Communist Party, various factions are staking out positions to determine which economic policies will take hold under the new administration.
Outsiders often assume that Beijing's leaders are unified on major issues. But analysts say Chinese leaders fight as fiercely as members of the United States Congress, over everything from the size of government to tax policies and the operation of the banking system.
With so much at stake, that is only natural. Private entrepreneurs and multinational corporations are now pushing for Beijing to roll back the state's influence over the economy, saying state-owned corporations have unfair advantages, like access to low-interest loans from state-run banks.
Meanwhile, state companies and their backers lobby against giving too much power to multinationals, which could impede the development of home-grown companies. They also argue that private companies would be less socially responsible.
Reports in the Chinese media reflect the divide, and the debate raging in China.
This week, Hu Shuli, the editor of the nation's top business magazine, Caixin, or New Century Weekly, published an opinion piece striking back at state interests.
In an essay titled "The Limits of State Capitalism," she wrote that too much state control over the economy leads to inefficient uses of capital and greases the wheels for corruption.
"The state's heavy hand creates and sustains monopolies, stifles competition and undermines a fair market," she wrote, concluding, "Without effective curbs, China's state capitalism may well become crony capitalism."

        
The iEconomy: How Much Do Foxconn Workers Make?
        
Behind a White House Pivot on China
        
How Obama's Tough Talk Plays in China
        
Answers to Questions About China's Economy
        
Pushing Latin American Banks to Lend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (72%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) China; World Bank; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



88 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Why Tuition Has Skyrocketed at State Schools

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The reason college tuition at public schools has grown so quickly in recent decades is that states have shifted more of the cost of education away from taxpayers and onto students. 

 BODY:
I have an article today about the states' long-term divestment from public higher education, and what that means for students.
As I'm sure you know, college tuitions have been skyrocketing for decades -- with growth outpacing the Consumer Price Index, gasoline and even that great bugaboo of out-of-control costs, health care.
Here's a chart showing price changes in these categories. The lines represent the price in a given year, as a percent of the price in 1985. For example, if a line reaches 200, that means prices in that year were 200 percent of those in 1985, or twice as high.
College tuition and fees today are 559 percent of their cost in 1985. In other words, they have nearly sextupled (while consumer prices have roughly doubled).
There's a lot of debate about why college costs have risen so much. Many people assume that schools are spending too much money on frivolous things like climbing walls and Jacuzzis. That's true for a handful of elite schools, but not for a vast majority.
Some of the rising cost has to do with other services schools have been adding over the last few decades, like mental health counselors and emergency alert systems. And certainly there are other inefficiencies that have crept into the system as higher education has become more things to more people.
But at least at public colleges and universities -- which enroll three out of every four American college students -- the main cause of tuition growth has been huge state funding cuts.
Every recession, states face a budget squeeze as their tax revenue falls and demand for their services rises. They have to cut something, and higher education is often a prime target.
Why? Struggling states have to prioritize other mandatory spending, like Medicaid. Higher education usually falls under the "discretionary spending" part of the budget -- and in fact is often one of the biggest programs, if not the biggest, in the discretionary category.
State legislators also know colleges have other sources of funds to turn to.
"If you're a state legislator, you look at all your state's programs and you say, 'Well, we can't make prisoners pay, but we can make college students pay,'" said Ronald Ehrenberg, the director of the Cornell Higher Education Research Institute and a trustee of the State University of New York System.
College students do end up paying more. But in the past, after the economy recovered, most states did not fully restore the funds that were cut. As cuts accumulated in each business cycle, so did tuition increases.
Here's a chart showing what's happened to state support and actual tuition (what students pay after receiving financial aid, not sticker price) over the last 25 years. It presents just how much cost-shifting has been going on:
The trend does not look likely to reverse itself, either.
Sure, state tax revenues are growing again, but so are state spending obligations. States will soon have to pay out trillions in public pensions for the retiring baby boomer generation -- squeezing the funds for training the next generation of workers even more.

        
College Is Cheaper Than You Think
        
Q. & A.: The Real Cost of College
        
When State Universities Lose State Support
        
College Majors That Put Women on Equal Footing With Men
        
A Reason to Major in the Humanities

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (51%) college costs; Colleges and Universities; cost shift; is college worth it; state schools; Tuition; States (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



89 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: How Head Start Can Make a Difference

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: Studies have indicated that gains from the preschool program fade as participants get older, but new research suggests that it does deepen the parents' engagement with their children. 

 BODY:
Head Start, the government's program for giving preschool training to children from low-income families, has become something of a political football as both parties champion their efforts to spend government funds more efficiently. 
Numerous economic studies, as well as the government's own sponsored research, have examined the immediate and long-term effects of Head Start, looking at cognitive skills, social and emotional development and health, as well as the likelihood that students attend college, earn higher incomes or avoid criminal activity. 
Researchers and policy makers have been troubled by studies that show that while children in Head Start show clear gains in skills like vocabulary, spelling, letter naming, color identification and other precursors of academic performance during and immediately following their enrollment in the program, those effects appear to fade over time.
A new study looks at how the program affects parents' involvement with their children both during and after the program, and finds that those effects are more long-lasting.

The researchers used data from the government's study, based on a group of about 4,000 newly entering 3- and 4-year-olds who were eligible for Head Start in the fall of 2002. About 60 percent of them were randomly assigned to Head Start programs while the others were not given access to Head Start, although they could enroll in other early childhood programs. The research followed both cohorts through 2006.
Alexander M. Gelber, an assistant professor of economics at University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, and Adam Isen, a doctoral candidate in applied economics at the Wharton School, found that when children took part in Head Start, their parents read more regularly to them, practiced writing the alphabet, played math games, kept notes of their children's progress and took their children to art galleries or museums more than the parents of the children who were not enrolled in the program. 
The study also found that parents of Head Start children set rules about activities like television watching more than the parents of children not in Head Start. And fathers who didn't live with their children visited them more often once they were enrolled in Head Start.
Professor Gelber and Mr. Isen found that the data showed that even after the children had moved on from the Head Start program, their parents continued to be more involved in their out-of-school education and development than parents of children who had not enrolled in the program. Fathers who lived separately from their children visited them an average of one more day a month than the fathers of children who had not enrolled in Head Start.
Among the possible reasons parents might be more involved with children in Head Start, the researchers said: the program actively encourages parents to volunteer in the centers, and parents may pick up tips there; parents believe their children have been offered a special advantage and therefore invest more time in them; the children are more pleasant to be around because Head Start helps curb behavioral problems; the parents have more energy and time to focus on certain activities because they effectively gain free child care through Head Start. 
Regarding an apparent disconnect between lasting cognitive effects and lasting parental involvement, Professor Gelber said in an interview that the data was "puzzling," because many of the activities that parents of Head Start children engage in - like reading, practicing letters or math games - should contribute to cognitive development even after the students leave the program. 
Mr. Gelber said that perhaps children performed better on cognitive tests while they were in the Head Start program because the program specifically taught them the skills they would be tested on. Parents, he suggested, "are teaching skills that don't show up as readily in the test score data but are showing up later in life." Of course, he added, "this is all in the realm of speculation." 

        
From Kindergarten to College Completion
        
Will Business Buy In to Early Childhood Education?
        
How to Cut Child Poverty in Half
        
What Does $60 Billion Buy?
        
The Ultimate Growth Industry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%) Head Start; preschool; Education (Pre-School); Head Start Program

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



90 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Dignity and the Wealth of Nations

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Political movements backed by middle-class protesters undermine theory that continuing prosperity is all people want. 

 BODY:
The significance of the Russian presidential elections this weekend can be understood by reading "Why Nations Fail," a book written by two U.S.- based academics being published this month, Chrystia Freeland writes. 
Daron Acemoglu of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and James Robinson of Harvard University present an ambitious work that, "hopscotches through history and around the world to answer the very big question of why some countries get rich and others don't" Ms. Freeland writes. 
The analytical framework of the book helps understand, "one of the seeming paradoxes of the past 12 months - the prosperous middle-class people who have taken to the streets in the Arab world, in India and in Russia to protest crony capitalism," she writes. 
"If you believe that economic growth today is a sufficient condition for long-term prosperity, these affluent agitators are puzzling. That leads observers to search for softer grievances, like the quest for dignity." 
But Mr. Acemoglu and Mr. Robinson believe that dignity and long-term prosperity are intimately connected. The protesters, who put the demand for political rights ahead of everything else, are right; the academic consensus that argues they should simply focus on the correct economic policies is wrong. 
Read full story here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%) Freeland, Chrystia; Politics and Government; Harvard University; International Herald Tribune; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; India; Russia

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%) Harvard University; International Herald Tribune; Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Freeland, Chrystia

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%) India; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



91 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Big Data's Grass-Roots Revolution

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: Big Data is big business, but that also means there are more resources for the grassroots hackers who often change the world. A data conference this week shows how it's getting easier to get out ahead of things like government economic reports, information on radiation levels, and whether it's safe to flush. Next up: freeing our data. 

 BODY:
The Big Data revolution may be raising more questions than it is answering. Who owns my behavior? Where does my government begin and end? Should I be able to bet on the outcome of a trial?
By accident and design, people and companies are putting huge amounts of information about prices, locations, intentions and just about everything else into large databases. Big Data, which should probably be called Big Analysis, is about looking at that information in novel ways to find new patterns for prediction. What they predict, and how that fits in with traditional ways of running our lives, is changing fast. Money is flowing into a growing sector of corporate technology, and grass-roots hackers are thinking of even more novel ways to free up and use the data .
The publisher O'Reilly's Strata Conference this week hosted over 2,500 attendees on the subject of Big Data. Microsoft and EMC were sponsors. Last year Strata sold out with 1,300 people, and had far less of a big-company presence. 
Much of the corporate work is fascinating. Hal Varian, who is Google's chief economist, talked about ways that search terms predict government economic information. Just as the search term "vodka," which most frequently appears on a Saturday, predicts "hangover" will appear most often on Sunday, Google search terms like "how to sign up for unemployment" can foreshadow the beginning and end of recessions. Searching for "hybrid vehicles" (which shows unhappiness with gasoline prices) indicates poor consumer sentiment about a month ahead of the standard University of Michigan index.
A video of his talk and a 2009 paper on some of this work show how Mr. Varian has refined the predictions by adding more data sets and tools. Google Trends, is a way to show when things are increasing, Google Insights for Search links different queries and Google Correlate links search terms and real-world data, like the incidence of queries in different states (New Yorkers, you might think of switching to a different kind of booze). "Kids, try this at home," Mr. Varian said, encouraging the crowd to see what else they could do with the tools.
Farther-reaching new relations of data sets, however, may come from start-up companies and grass-roots hackers. A Palo Alto, Calif., company called Lex Machina takes data from patent litigation outcomes and predicts whether or not you should settle, based also on things like the type of intellectual property, the judge and the court hearing the case. "An ethically provocative" product, is how Alistair Croll, Strata's co-chair, described it. "I'm waiting for a derivatives market in patent litigation."
A start-up from Great Britain calledPachube (pronounced Patch-bay), which was purchased last year by LogMeIn for $15 million, collects both public and private sensor data. Much of the data can then be accessed by other people in unexpected ways. 
After last year's tsunami in Japan, for example, members of the Pachube community set up radiation detectors around Japan. One participant linked this information with data on wind currents, to predict where radiation levels might next spike. If the Japanese government was doing this, they didn't tell the public. One enterprising New Yorker has put water-level sensors in the city's pipes, and through a service called dontflush.me predicts whether or not a toilet is at risk of backing up. Maybe there is a vodka mash-up to be done here.
Its founder, Usman Haque, says Pachube receives in real time over 100,000 different streams of public data, and more streams than that on a restricted basis, meaning the owner of the data limits who can see it. A stream could be a single app on a phone, or it could be an entire house's information, including personal medical data, so it's hard to tell how much data this is. "It's a community of people building on each other," he says. "It's about getting more heterogeneity, that's the value."
The real revolution will start in about a year, Mr. Haque says, when data-collecting home automation hubs start selling for about $50. Individuals, he believes, will begin demanding more ownership and sharing of their own data. FitBit and Nikenow collect information on things like sleep and workout times. In many cases fitness companies, telecommunications providers, utilities and others own such information about us. 
"One thing I'm sure of," Mr. Haque says, "we have no idea what people will be doing with this three years from now." 

        
I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
        
What Are the Odds That Stats Would Be This Popular?
        
At Davos, Discussions of a Global Data Deluge
        
Data Analytics Company Finds Fraud Is a Friend
        
A New 'Law' for the Mobile Computing Era

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIG DATA (91%); PATENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); PATENT LAW (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); STARTUPS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%) analytics; big data; information; Sensors; Computers and the Internet; Enterprise Computing; Politics and Government; Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Data; Start-ups

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



92 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: An Amateur Snapshot of Kodak's Early Days

BYLINE: KERRI MACDONALD and DARCY EVELEIGH


HIGHLIGHT: It was, they said, "the largest prize contest in photographic history." The Rush Rhees Library in Rochester, N.Y., houses a collection of photographs from the first-ever picture contest sponsored by the Eastman Kodak Company. 

 BODY:
Was this the first Kodak moment?
A toddler poses for the camera, thumb in mouth, right ankle twisted in a moment of childhood sheepishness. The scene was captured on a Kodak Graflex by L. L. Martin of New Orleans. In July 1929, it was a moment worth a whopping $2,500.
L. L. Martin submitted the grand-prize-winning picture for what was said to be "the largest prize contest in photographic history" - the Eastman Kodak Company's first-ever nationwide picture contest. With $30,000 in winnings, it was an effort to woo amateur photographers on the eve of the Great Depression. Today, the picture - which beat out 750,000 submissions - is pasted into one of four albums that comprise "Kodak Historical Collection #003," nestled within the Department of Rare Books, Special Collections & Preservation of the Rush Rhees Library at the University of Rochester.
The library acquired the Kodak collections almost eight years ago, when Kodak - now under bankruptcy protection and trying to rebound - handed over millions of pages of documents and photographs. Few people aside from the occasional student or researcher have seen the albums. Two are from 1929, and two more from the '30s and early '40s.
Kodak advertised aggressively for its 1929 picture contest, spending hundreds of thousands to encourage "fortunate amateurs" to take part. Nancy Martin, a University of Rochester archivist and Rochester Collections librarian, says she believes the first contest was the company's effort to "start cameras working and keep them working."
Now, it is a glimpse of (overwhelmingly white, middle-class) life just before the crash of 1929. It is a New York City with no Empire State Building; a time when milk was delivered in glass bottles and families gathered around books rather than iPads.
Kodak's motivation was clear. The company told its retailers that every prize, from the grand to the $5, would stimulate sales of cameras, film and photo finishing. Retailers were given colorful window streamers to giant cartons of Kodak film. "Greatly Increased Profits for YOU!" read a pamphlet given to retailers.
Kodak placed ads on the radio and in major magazines - from The Saturday Evening Post to Ladies' Home Journal - as well as in 17 Sunday papers (though in The New York Times). Big-name judges were a selling point, whether the actress Ethel Barrymore, the New York-based photographer Alfred Cheney Johnston or Kenneth Wilson Williams, a "photography expert" and the editor of the Eastman Kodak-published magazine Kodakery.
Children were a major theme - the likely reason a portrait of a baby was chosen to win what would now equate to more than $30,000. In March and April, "special $100 prizes" were given to photographers in each state and Canadian province for the best child and baby pictures. "Snap as many youngsters as you want," read an ad in the sensational Sunday supplement The American Weekly, "from babies to boys and girls beginning to think of themselves as young men and women."
It continued, somewhat pleadingly: "Anything goes as long as it is a picture of children, and if it has the least spark of interest in it, don't fail to send it in. What looks to you like a 'flop' may look like a 'wow' to the judges."
In New York State, as reported by The New York Times, one children's picture contest winner was Mrs. A. S. Richardson of 13 Parkway, Larchmont, who photographed her daughter, Patricia, in a garden. The Times also reported on a taxidermist who photographed Central Park swans, winning $500 in July 1929.
By 1931, despite the ailing economy, the total picture contest winnings had more than tripled. A Popular Science ad highlighted the new reach of the contest, now called "Kodak International $100,000 Competition" - more than $1 million now. It continued to grow, and Kodak explored new ways of reaching amateur photographers over the years. By 1939, when the fourth album in the library's possession begins, the contest was held regularly, with a continuing emphasis on children - but a somewhat more sophisticated bent, photographically.
Contributing photographers came from South Africa (), Brazil () and Spain (). A glance through the albums at Rush Rhees reveals a collection of pictures, in categories like still life and architecture, that have rarely been seen. While a crew of judges made some potentially questionable choices, many of the photos are good; some even great. Some, like the "still life" winner below, have a touch of mocking humor. Others are almost documentary in nature, like the arc of family shoes organized neatly atop some newsprint, above.
While detailed technical information is noted for almost every image - camera type, film type, prize winnings and so forth - little is known about the content of the photos. Captions are limited. One New York photo was taken in Far Rockaway, Queens, according to a caption scrawled alongside the print. Most don't say.
Likewise, little is known about most of the photographers. (The first album is, after all, about 83 years old.)
But a couple of phone calls to family members revealed that G. E. Callahan () was in his late 40s and living in Bluefield, W.V., when he won $5 after submitting a picture of men peeking underneath what appears to be a circus tent in September 1929. (Perhaps they were seeking a glimpse of the Sparks Circus, which had rolled through Bluefield that month.)
Griffin Elwood Callahan would have been in his late 40s at the time, his grandson, Bruce Callahan, said. At the time, he was likely working as a health and safety engineer for a power company. As the son of a photographer, he had grown up taking pictures. (Photographs by his father, Griffin, appear in The Callahan Photo Collection at the Eastern Shore Public Library.) In the early 1900s, G.E. worked as a surveyor for the railroad in southwestern Virginia and Kentucky and brought a camera everywhere.
When they were contacted in February, none of his family members were aware that Mr. Callahan had entered the contest. But Bruce Callahan, who is 52 and lives in Goochland County, Virginia, wasn't surprised. "He was a passionate photographer," he said. "He was taking pictures all the time."
Just what Kodak would have liked to hear.
. Additional reporting by Peter Moskowitz. Follow @nytimesphoto, @kerrimac and @PeterMoskowitz on Twitter.

        
Kodak's Amateur Photographers: New York
        
Vivian Maier: Better and Better
        
When 'People Power' Won the Philippines
        
A Tumblr From Times Past
        
A Lonely Gaze on The Times and Its City

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); CHILDREN (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); RETAILERS (85%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); FAMILY (68%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (65%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%) 1920s; 1930s; 1940s; Advertising; Amateur photography; Archival photographs; Black-and-white photography; Bluefield; Children; Darcy Eveleigh; Ethel Barrymore; Kenneth Wilson Williams; Kerri MacDonald; Kodak; Kodakery; Nancy Martin; New York; Peter Moskowitz; Picture contests; Rochester; Rush Rhees Library; Showcase; University of Rochester; Barrymore, Ethel; Advertising and Marketing; Cameras; Children and Childhood; Contests and Prizes; Libraries and Librarians; Photography; Eastman Kodak Company; Rochester (NY); Eastman Kodak Company|EKDKQ|Other OTC

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (94%); LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Eastman Kodak Company; University of Rochester

TICKER: Eastman Kodak Company; EKDKQ; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: Barrymore, Ethel

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%) Rochester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



93 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: More Older Americans Rejecting Marriage

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: More older Americans are rejecting marriage, how to sell your old iPad, Android apps can also secretly copy photos and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
State cutbacks curb training in high-demand jobs. (Business)
        
More Americans reject marriage in their 50s and beyond. (National)
        
Android apps can also secretly copy photos. (Bits)
        
Car sales surge despite a rise in gas prices. (Business)
        
What to do about Google's new privacy policy. (Gadgetwise)
        
A perspective on growth, by region. (Economix)
        
RidePalto help Bay Area workers commute. (Wheels)
        
Cranking up your broadband speed. (Gadgetwise)
        
How to sellyour old iPad now. (Gadgetwise)
        
A review of Windows 8 Beta. (Pogue's Posts)
        
What next for gas prices? (Green)
        
When doctors don't tell the truth. (Well)
        
Talking to teenagers and their parents about guns. (Motherlode)
        
A memoir aboutcaregivingand silence. (The New Old Age)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE APPLICATIONS (91%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); BROADBAND (54%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (72%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



94 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Divorce Rates Among Boomers to Reshape Old Age

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: About a third of adults ages 46 through 64 were divorced, separated or had never been married in 2010, compared with 13 percent in 1970, according to a recent analysis. 

 BODY:
The Times reports this morning that a growing number of men and women in their 50s and 60s are opting out of marriage and venturing into old age on their own. The surge has been driven by several factors, including longevity, economics and evolving social mores, according to sociologists. 
Over the past 20 years, the divorce rate among baby boomers has surged by more than 50 percent, even as divorce rates over all have stabilized nationally. At the same time, more adults are remaining single. The shift is changing the traditional portrait of older Americans: About a third of adults ages 46 through 64 were divorced, separated or had never been married in 2010, compared with 13 percent in 1970, according to an analysis of recently released census data conducted by demographers at Bowling Green State University, in Ohio.
Sociologists expect those numbers to rise sharply in coming decades as younger people, who have far lower rates of marriage than their elders, move into middle age.
Susan L. Brown, co-director of the National Center for Family and Marriage Research at Bowling Green State, said the trend would transform the lives of many older people.
The elderly, who have traditionally relied on spouses for their care, will increasingly struggle to fend for themselves. And federal and local governments will have to shoulder much of the cost of their care. Unmarried baby boomers are five times more likely to live in poverty than their married counterparts, statistics show. They are also three times as likely to receive food stamps, public assistance or disability payments.
Read the full article, "More Americans Rejecting Marriage in 50s and Beyond," and share your thoughts in the comments section. 

        
Paying for the 'Institutionalized Spouse'
        
Years Later, Divorce Complicates Caregiving

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); STATISTICS (76%); CENSUS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) divorce; Baby Boomers; Elderly; Marriages; Family Relationships

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012



95 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Austerity, American Style

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Uniquely weak government spending under Obama. 

 BODY:
Via Mark Thoma, Antonio Fatas has a good piece on the exceptional weakness of government spending in this recovery. I thought I might add to that observation.
Let's look at real government consumption and investment spending -- basically purchases of goods and services -- from all levels of government during three recoveries: the current expansion, the Bush Boom (such as it was), and Morning in America. Here's what you get:
Which one is different?
Now, this doesn't include safety-net spending, which has indeed soared in this slump. But actual government purchases have been uniquely weak, largely because of budget distress at the state and local level.
And think of the way conservatives love to contrast Obama's recovery with Reagan's. It is, of course, a stupid comparison: the Reagan recession was brought on by very high interest rates, and a quick recovery took place when the Fed loosened up, whereas the 2007-2009 slump was a financial crisis that occurred despite low rates, leaving little room for Fed action. But it's also true that when it came to government spending, Reagan was in effect much more Keynesian than Obama.
I expect to see this chart in the Wall Street Journal soon. Also, Winter Olympics held in Hell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMPTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



96 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Greek Crisis May Test the Value of Swaps | The restructuring of Greece's debt that is scheduled to start next week may well demonstrate how effective credit-default swaps are.
These financial instruments, which played a major role in both the 2008 financial crisis and in the European debt crisis, are meant to pay out if a company or country defaults. But the twists and turns over Greece's debt are revealing their potential limitations for investors who hope the swaps will protect them against losses if Greece defaults.
On Thursday, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, the industry body that decides whether swaps should pay out, said that Greece's proposed debt exchange did not currently activate swaps linked to the country's debt. But the association added that the swaps could activate at a later date.
The body's decision reignites the debate over the usefulness of the default swaps. If Greece had simply stopped paying interest or principal on its bonds, the swaps would have paid out. European policy makers, however, decided last year to try to use a voluntary debt exchange for Greece as a way to avoid setting off the swaps. The maneuver was a brusque reminder for investors that there are ways to circumvent the conditions of credit-default swaps.

DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Sticking With the Madoffs | Catherine Hooper moved in with Andrew Madoff, her boyfriend, just three days before his father was arrested in December 2008, Fortune writes. Since then, she has helped the younger Mr. Madoff cope with tragedy, and is running an emergency-preparedness company called Black Umbrella.
FORTUNE
Deutsche Bank Takes to Twitter | Ted Tobiason, a San Francisco-based investment banker at the German firm, has been authorized to tweet from a business account, in an effort to reach technology clients, Bloomberg Businessweek reports.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Grantham Laments the State of Capitalism | In his latest quarterly letter, Jeremy Grantham writes, "For the time being, capitalism has tuned itself to rapid growth at almost any cost." 
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK | GMO
Redstone to Miss Shareholder Meeting | Sumner Redstone won't be able to attend Viacom's annual shareholder meeting next week because of a conflicting commitment, but "will be addressing the shareholders in a video presentation," a spokesman said, according to The Wall Street Journal.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Goldman Sachs Bets on Reinsurance | The Wall Street bank said it agreed to buy Ariel Reinsurance, the Bermuda-based unit of Ariel Holdings, for a sum that an unnamed person familiar with the matter said was less than $500 million, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Monster Worldwide Puts Itself in Play | The chief executive of the online jobs listing company says that the board and management are pursuing "strategic alternatives to increasing shareholder value."
DealBook 
The Losers in the El Paso Corp. Opinion | While its liability exposure is limited, the El Paso Corporation's investment bank, Goldman Sachs, sustains another blow to its reputation, argues the Deal Professor.
DealBook 
Contest Looms Over Cable & Wireless | Tata Communications, of India, and Vodafone are each thinking about bidding for Cable & Wireless Worldwide, Reuters notes. 
REUTERS
Kodak to Sell Online Photo Business | The bankrupt company said it agreed to sell Kodak Gallery, which lets people store images online, to Shutterfly for $23.8 million, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Peugeot May Build G.M. Cars After 2016 | Peugeot Citroen, which this week announced an alliance with General Motors, may assemble G.M. cars in its factories after 2016, according to its chief executive, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chevron Eyes Russian Expansion | The oil giant has met with a Russian government official about potential projects in Russia's Arctic reserves, according to the country's Ministry for Natural Resources, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Barclays Reverses Course on Central Bank Funds | Barclays, which didn't take cash from the European Central Bank in December, and said it would not tap the central bank this time around, ended up borrowing 8.2 billion euros ($10.9 billion) this week, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
British 'Bad Bank' Reports Rise in Profit | The bank that owns the soured loans once held by Northern Rock and Bradford & Bingley, two failed lenders, said its 2011 profit more than doubled from the year earlier, adding that it repaid 2.1 billion pounds ($3.4 billion) to the British government, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
European Banks Miss Out on Sovereign Debt Rally | As the Royal Bank of Scotland, Commerzbank and other lenders reduce their holdings of risky European debt, those bonds have had a rally this year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan Says Chinese Clients Want Overseas Financing | The number of Chinese companies looking to get overseas financing has doubled from a year ago, according to Fang Fang, the head of JPMorgan Chase's investment bank in China, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Pimco Fund Sees Another Month of Inflows | Investors in Bill Gross's Pimco Total Return Fund committed $835 million in January, the second month of inflows after three months of withdrawals at the end of last year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Look at CIMB's Record | The CIMB Group, the Malaysian firm that is trying to become a major investment bank in Asia, last year ranked 18th in investment banking revenue in Asia excluding Japan, ahead of DBS Group Holdings, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
A Buyout Fund, First Backed by LVMH, Carves Its Own Niche | As L Capital prepares to announce the closing of its third European fund, the private equity firm is eager to show that it follows its own path by investing in "affordable luxury."
DealBook 
Flowers Sees Financial Services Opportunities in Europe | J. Christopher Flowers told the Super Return private equity conference that valuations for financial assets in the euro zone were currently the lowest he had seen in his entire career.
DealBook 
Buyout Chiefs Remain Image-Conscious | The negativity being heaped on Mitt Romney has unsettled some private equity executives, Reuters reports.
"If he can't turn around the image, with millions of campaign dollars and his political life or death riding on it, one shouldn't underestimate the task," Malloch Brown, chairman of the business advisory firm FTI Consulting, told Reuters.
REUTERS
Private Equity Faces Pressure in China | A recent deal, in which three private equity funds were said to buy a majority stake in the Singapore-listed Luye Pharma Group from another fund, highlights the limitations buyout firms face in China as they try to exit their investments, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chinese Brokerages Want to Do Buyouts | Major Chinese brokerages have asked the China Securities Regulatory Commission to relax certain rules, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Last Year's Hedge Fund Losers | Forbes looks at the prominent hedge fund managers who stumbled last year, like John A. Paulson and Philip A. Falcone.
FORBES
D.E. Shaw and Brevan Howard Get Pension Commitments | The two hedge funds are getting $350 million each from New York City pensions, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HSBC Scouts for Hedge Funds | The bank said it is looking for new hedge fund managers to do business with, as the Volcker Rule drives traders to start their own funds, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
In Japan, Pension Funds May Shun Boutiques | After the Japanese government suspended AIJ Investment Advisors when it couldn't account for clients' money, a new report suggested pension funds in Japan may begin to favor larger hedge funds to manage their assets, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Asian Hedge Funds Shutter | The Henderson Group said it closed its Asia-Pacific Equity Multi-Strategy Fund, and an unnamed person told Reuters that Tantallon Capital is closing its Bass Rock Fund.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Yelp Prices Its Offering at $15 a Share | The initial public offering price, above its expected range, will raise $107.25 million and places Yelp's total market value at $898.1 million.
DealBook 
Zynga Moves to Reduce Reliance on Facebook | The company is introducing new features to games on its own Web site, Zynga.com, in a move that could give it some measure of independence from Facebook. But the social network will remain deeply connected to the games, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Facebook's High-Profile User | President Obama has adopted the new Timeline feature on Facebook, with a jab at those who question his birth certificate, The New York Times Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
I.P.O. Pipeline Is Filled With Enterprise Technology | While the big Silicon Valley I.P.O.'s have lately been companies that focus on consumers, the next wave will be businesses that cater to business, like Splunk, Workday and Palo Alto Networks, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
TV Stations Sue Start-Up Backed by Diller | Aereo, the start-up backed by Barry Diller's IAC/InterActiveCorp that aims to distribute television stations on the Internet, was sued by local stations in New York, which are trying to stop the company from releasing its product, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Twitter Grows Up | After a turbulent first five years of existence, Twitter appears to be evolving into a viable business, as its unique symbology goes mainstream and it develops ways for companies to advertise, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Long Road Ahead for Twitter | The company faces some daunting challenges before it can think about going public, like convincing blue chip companies to buy ads on its site, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Government Program Bears Fruit | A fund created in 2009 by Steven Chu, the Energy secretary, is beginning to see some success, Bloomberg Businessweek writes, highlighting the example of OPX Biotechnologies, a start-up backed by the fund that develops E. coli bacteria to produce liquid biofuel.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Android Apps Can Also Copy Photos | The issue is not confined to Apple: apps for Android phones also have the ability to copy users' photos without their knowledge, The New York Times Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Geithner Takes on Critics of Regulation | "Only four years after the financial crisis began to unfold, some people seem to be suffering from amnesia about how close America came to complete financial collapse under the outdated regulatory system we had before Wall Street reform," Timothy F. Geithner writes in the Wall Street Journal.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Will the Financial Crisis Actors Face Justice? | Phil Angelides, who chaired the the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, writes in The New York Times that the committee's report contained evidence that could have prompted federal investigations, and yet it appears the Justice Department isn't following up on those findings.
NEW YORK TIMES
No Further Questions for the Chairman | In a sign the economy is improving, Ben Bernanke's Senate hearing ended early on Thursday when the committee members ran out of questions for the Federal Reserve chairman, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Abuse by Rate Traders Said to Have Been the Norm | At banks in London, the staff who were responsible for determining a benchmark borrowing rate often discussed the matter with traders who sat near them, or with rival banks, Bloomberg News reports, citing money-market traders with direct knowledge of the procedures at three firms.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Behind the Crackdown on Insider Trading | Prosecutors are aggressively pursuing insider trading cases in part because of the explosive growth of hedge funds and investment advisory firms that have a voracious appetite for information, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column.
DealBook 
Greek Bond Exchange Has a Wrinkle in Japan | Holders of yen-denominated Greek bonds who live in Japan may have some protection from the debt restructuring, due to factors including Japanese law, according to three Japanese banks, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
U.S. Seeks Dismissal of Lawsuit Over A.I.G Rescue | The government is asking a court to dismiss a lawsuit brought by a company run by Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg, the former A.I.G. chief executive, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (85%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); REINSURANCE (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ARRESTS (67%); MERGERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); VIACOM INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) GREECE (92%); GERMANY (73%); UNITED STATES (68%); BERMUDA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



97 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: With Citigroup Stabilized, Parsons Decides to Retire

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Richard D. Parsons is stepping down as chairman of the bank and will be replaced by Michael E. O'Neill, another Citi board member and the former chief executive of the Bank of Hawaii. 

 BODY:
5:32 p.m. | Updated 
Richard D. Parsons, Citigroup's chairman, plans to step down from the bank's board this year, the bank announced on Friday, as the firm continues to move forward from the financial crisis.
Mr. Parsons will be replaced as chairman by Michael E. O'Neill, another Citi board member and the former chief executive of the Bank of Hawaii. Two other directors, Alain P. Belda and Timothy C. Collins, will also decline to stand for re-election.
Mr. Parsons's departure will mark yet another break from Citi's time before the market upheaval of 2008. A 16-year veteran of the bank's board, Mr. Parsons had been expected to leave within the next few years.
 His departure may add further heft to the stature of Vikram S. Pandit, Citi's chief executive. Mr. Parsons had long championed Mr. Pandit as the principal architect of the firm's turnaround.
"Under Vikram Pandit's leadership, Citi has made remarkable progress," Mr. Parsons said in a statement. "In Mike O'Neill, the board will have the perfect leader to enable it to continue providing the oversight and guidance America's global bank deserves"
Mr. Parsons was named as Citi's chairman in January of 2009, after having deflected talk of assuming that role. But at a time when Citi and its competitors were nearly flattened by the ripples emanating from the collapse of Lehman Brothers, his smoothness and extensive connections across Wall Street and in Washington were seen as important to helping the firm rebuild.
By the time he joined Citi's board in 1996, Mr. Parsons had already established something of a reputation as a corporate statesman with a knack for calming chaotic situations. He first made a name for himself by turning around the struggling Dime Bank in the 1980s, and later helped quiet the raucousness surrounding the newly merged AOLTime Warner.
His successor, Mr. O'Neill, is well-regarded within banking circles, having resuscitated Bank of Hawaii upon taking its reins in 2000. He joined Citi's board in 2009.
News of the Citi board changes was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal online.

        
Shake-Up Is Citi's Latest Rebranding Attempt
        
Parsons of Citigroup Says Pandit Deserves Credit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%) Citigroup; Michael E. O'Neill; Richard D. Parsons; Vikram Pandit; O'Neill, Michael; Parsons, Richard D; Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF HAWAII CORP (57%); DIME BANK (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BOH (NYSE) (57%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (95%); VIKRAM PANDIT (90%) O'Neill, Michael; Parsons, Richard D

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



98 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Determining the Level of Payments in Health Care

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Reasonable people may differ on how best to set fees paid to health-care providers, but it is beyond dispute that the current system is inefficient and far too costly, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
In my previous post, I presented the following menu of payment systems for health care and discussed the various bases (the columns in the chart) upon which payment could be made. Now I'd like to discuss the rows in this chart - the methods by which the level of payments are determined.
 Free-Market Determination: The first row represents what one might call the free-market method, with payment levels negotiated between individual health insurers or self-paying patients on the one hand, and individual providers of health care (doctors, hospitals, and so on) on the other. It is the system long used in the private insurance sector and for uninsured patients.

Tax-financed public insurance programs - Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare - could be folded into that approach by delegating the tasks of buying health care and claims processing to private insurers, as is now done with private Medicare Advantage plans and Medicaid managed care plans. 
Many American policy analysts, policy makers and commentators believe this is the best and fairest way to determine how and how much the providers of health care should be paid. Perhaps it is.
As I have pointed out in a paper, "The Pricing of U.S. Hospital Services: Chaos Behind a Veil of Secrecy," and in several earlier posts on this blog, however, this approach to setting prices for health care has had several consequences:
1. On average, the prices for health care goods and services negotiated by private health insurers in the United States tend to higher - about double or more - than prices for identical services and goods in other countries of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. 
2. It is in good part so because insurers do not seem to have sufficient market power, especially vis  vis hospitals, to resist very rapid price increases. 
3. The varying degrees of market power among private insurers in the United States have led to pervasive price discrimination among payers, with prices for identical goods or services varying among payers by factors as high as 10 (see chart below). 
No one has been able to demonstrate that these enormous variations have anything to do with commensurate variations in quality or that price discrimination in health care is efficient, let alone fair.
 Price-Setting in Quasi-Markets: To avoid these consequences of individual negotiations over prices, I had recommended in a recent post a so-called "all-payer" system for health care in the United States. 
Under such a system, associations of health insurers within a region (e.g., states) would negotiate with corresponding associations of hospitals, doctors and of other providers of health care uniform fee schedules (whether fee for service or bundled payments) that then would apply to all payers and providers in that region. 
Germany and Switzerland, where such systems are used, call these arrangements "quasi-markets." Maryland has long operated an all-payer system for hospitals only, with fee levels being determined by a commission of stakeholders. 
One advantage of such a system is that it would do away with price discrimination. Another is that it would vastly reduce the administrative cost of billing for health care. 
Finally, the negotiations between the parties could be constrained, if so desired, with reference to some overall macro-economic metric - e.g., the expected growth of the payroll, where it is the base for financing health care, or the expected growth of gross domestic product per capita. This is how Germany and Switzerland have constrained the annual growth in health spending.
 Unilateral Administrative Price-Setting: Unilateral price-setting by government is the third distinct method of determining the level of the prices paid for health care. It typically is used by tax-financed, government-run, single-payer health-insurance systems, such as those of Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States. 
Medicare price-setting in the United States has been characterized by its critics as "dumb price-fixing," although it is not clear to me that the price-discriminatory practice in the private insurance markets represents more intelligent price-fixing. 
Price-setting by Medicare has also been decried as a Soviet approach to pricing, and I fully agree that it is. It may be all the more surprising, therefore, that this system was imposed on the fees Medicare pays hospitals in 1983 by none other than President Ronald Reagan's administration. The president at the time must have deemed it a good system. 
In the meantime, it has been widely imitated by other health systems around the world. 
President George H.W. Bush's administration in 1992 imposed a similar system - the Medicare fee schedule based on the so-called Resource-Based Relative Value Scale on Medicare's payments to physicians. Most private health insurers now use that scale to set or negotiate their own physician fee levels.
Unilateral, administrative price-setting shares with an all-payer system the advantage of simplicity in claims processing and, thus, lower administrative costs. Both methods furnish the ideal platform for common claims forms and electronic billing.
A major disadvantage of unilateral price-setting is clear from its name: providers may feel that they do not have sufficient say in determining the level of prices at which they are compensated for their services or products, even though they may be able to influence those fee levels by lobbying Congress. 
A further disadvantage is that any administrative mechanism operated by government tends to be less flexible than would be negotiations among insurers and providers. It is not that people working in government agencies are inherently less capable than are their private-sector counterparts. It is so because governments must above all seem fair to all parties in its decisions and also fully transparent. Private parties do not labor under these constraints.
While I am on record as favoring the quasi-market approach to setting fee levels on health care, I recognize that honorable people can differ honorably in their evaluation of these approaches. 
I am persuaded, however, that the opaque, price-discriminatory and administratively unwieldy - and hence very expensive - payment system of individual negotiations over fees has not served Americans well during in the last few decades.

        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills
        
What Hospitals Charge the Uninsured
        
Reader Response: Medicare Options and Quality of Care
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices
        
Medicare Spending Isn't Out of Control

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MEDICAID (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



99 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: In Debut On Market, Yelp Stock Surges 64%

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Yelp may not yet be profitable, but investors still gave the company rave reviews in its debut.
Stock in Yelp, an online hub for local businesses, soared in its first day of trading on Friday, rising 63.9 percent to close at a $24.58. At that price, the company has a market value of $1.47 billion, reflecting renewed demand for newly public technology stocks.
Like many Silicon Valley start-ups, Yelp is capitalizing on the growing market for user-generated content. The company provides a free forum for consumers to detail their opinions on restaurants, dentists and other local businesses, attracting 66 million users a month. Last year, Yelp, which makes most of its money from advertising, recorded $83.3 million in revenue, a 74 percent increase from 2010. 
But the company is struggling to turn a profit. In 2011, Yelp lost $16.9 million.
It's the same story across the local advertising industry on the Internet: great potential, strong sales, but no earnings. Angie's List, a review site for local services like home repair and catering, posted a loss of $5.9 million in the fourth quarter. Groupon, the daily deals giant, nearly tripped its revenue to $506.5 million and it lost $42.7 million in the same period.
''None of these companies will keep their value if they don't become profitable in the next year,'' said Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities analyst.
While local advertising dollars are increasingly shifting online, companies need to spend significantly on sales and marketing to grab their share of the business. In less than four years, Groupon's payroll has swelled from a couple of hundred employees to roughly 10,000.
At Yelp, the cost of sales and marketing has risen sharply for each of the last three years, according to its prospectus. In 2011, that category rose 60.8 percent, to $54.5 million. The amount spent on product development - like improving its site - increased more than 76 percent last year, to $11.6 million.
''The local advertising business is hard to scale,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Forrester Research, which follows the industry. ''Someone needs to essentially knock on the doors of these businesses.''
For sites like Yelp, small businesses can be a tough sell. The potential for the local advertising markets is large, but many companies have been slow to move online.
Yelp's numbers illustrate that gap. Roughly 606,000 businesses have set up profiles. But just 24,000 - less than 4 percent - actually pay Yelp any money.
''There's a huge myth about the budget of local advertisers,'' Ms. Mulpuru said. ''Local businesses will become more sophisticated but it's going to take a while.''
Yelp's services are also more costly than those of some peers, Mr. Pachter said. According to his research, Yelp is charging retailers several hundreds of dollars for every 1,000 impressions, or user views, compared with a few dollars at other sites.
A Yelp impression may be worth more, since the site generally catches users when they are close to a purchase decision. But the local businesses may not be willing to pay the premium, which could hamper Yelp's growth.
''Yelp costs significantly more,'' Mr. Pachter said. ''Do businesses want to spend 30 to 60 cents per customer to show an ad?''
The field is also increasingly crowded. Groupon has battled hundreds of clones at home and abroad. Facebook, the social networking giant that is to go public this year, has also signaled a desire to become a bigger player in the local advertising market.
And Yelp has faced stiff competition from Google, a former ally and still its No. 1 source of traffic. Yelp has accused the search giant of prioritizing Google products over its own and using content from its reviews without permission.
''Given the large volume of traffic to our Web site and the importance of the placement and display of results of a user's search, similar actions in the future could have a substantial negative effect on our business and results of operations,'' the company warned in its latest filing.
Regardless, many analysts say Yelp could be a strong contender in the market, given its active user base and the large amount of data it owns. The start-up's chief executive, Jeremy Stoppelman, often highlights the advantages of such a community, which ''generates an enormous amount of content that no one else has,'' he said.
''We're scratching the surface,'' he added. ''There's millions of local businesses that we can reach out and have a relationship with.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeremy Stoppelman, center, the chief of Yelp, at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday for his company's trading debut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (79%); STARTUPS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (66%)

COMPANY: YELP! INC (92%); ANGIE'S LIST INC (58%); GROUPON INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC TECHNOLOGY INC (57%)

TICKER: YELP (NYSE) (92%); ANGI (NASDAQ) (58%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



100 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Government Declares Huge Turnout in First National Vote Since '09 Protests

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; J. David Goodman contributed reporting from New York, and Alan Cowell from London.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Iran's government declared an enormous turnout for the parliamentary elections held Friday, calling it another ''epic'' sign of support for Iranian theocracy and a thumb in the eye of the West.
In the first national vote since a disputed presidential election in 2009, scenes of crowded polling places and voters with ink-stained fingers dominated state television and online news sites, alongside none-too-subtle editorials declaring that the vote defied Western perceptions of domestic discontent in Iran. Iran's opposition movement -- whose leaders have been jailed or placed under house arrest -- had called for a boycott of the vote. 
Iran's supreme leader and other top officials had called in recent days for high voter turnout as a way to show defiance toward the West at time of extraordinary tension. Iran's economy is staggering under the latest round of sanctions, and there is rising speculation that Israel will bomb Iran's nuclear facilities.
The elections, which had more than 3,400 candidates competing for the 290-seat Legislature, are widely expected to increase the control of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, over Iran's complex political landscape. They are not likely to have any bearing over issues most relevant to the West, like the efforts to reach a diplomatic compromise on Iran's nuclear program.
Interior Ministry officials reported an increase of 8 to 9 percent over the turnout in the last parliamentary elections, in 2008, according to the official Mehr news service. The official news agency IRNA declared the elections another ''recurrence of epic incidents in the history of the Islamic republic of Iran that blinded the enemies.'' Results are expected in two or three days.
The reported turnout seemed at odds with the short lines and relatively empty voting booths described by a number of Iranians in the capital and a few other major cities over the course of the day. ''I went to two polling places at around 2 p.m., one a mosque and one a school, and there was hardly anyone there,'' a 41-year-old woman in Tehran said in comments that were echoed by others. Many analysts and government critics have been asserting that the government, which has long held up voter turnout as a sign of its democratic legitimacy, was likely to declare high numbers no matter what.
But others cautioned that the official numbers could very well be accurate, especially in light of a recent campaign by Iranian high officials and clerics that declared voting a national and religious duty at a time of stress and danger. The appeals to patriotism and piety are especially effective in Iran's hinterland, away from the more worldly precincts of northern Tehran. ''We are a minuscule minority up here,'' said Mohammad Ali Shabani, a political analyst in Tehran. ''They portrayed a high turnout as a way to show unity and resistance in the face of sanctions.''
Results of the vote have been dismissed as meaningless by many of the opposition supporters who filled the streets during the antigovernment protests set off by the disputed presidential election of 2009. That was followed by a harsh crackdown, lasting months, that effectively destroyed the reformist movement and any allied opposition.
Lying below the surface of this year's election is a fierce struggle between partisans and rivals of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, whose second and final term ends next year. He hopes to maintain influence by electing lawmakers who are loyal to him. That has irked Ayatollah Khamenei, who has empowered lawmaker allies to cut the president down to size. Iran's Parliament is weak, and if the election yields an even more compliant body, it could become easier for the supreme leader to abolish the office of the president in a further consolidation of his power, something he hinted at last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Iranian held her identification card as people lined up at a shrine in Qum. The government called the turnout a sign of support for the theocracy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEHROUZ MEHRI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOYCOTTS (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); ARRESTS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (70%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



101 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Declined to New Lows in 2011

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
HOME prices in the United States, which seemed to begin to recover in 2009, fell to new lows in 2011, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of prices. 
Seattle and Atlanta were among the metropolitan areas where prices have fallen the most since the national market seemed to hit bottom.
''Prices peaked in Seattle after the rest of the United States, so Seattle is a little bit behind in the correction that will bring prices back in line with income levels,'' said David L. Stiff, chief economist of Fiserv, which collects the data and calculates the Case-Shiller indexes. Foreclosures are rising there as they are receding in some areas where problems appeared earlier.
As seen in the accompanying charts, five of the 20 markets tracked by the Case-Shiller indexes peaked in 2007. Four of them -- Seattle; Atlanta; Charlotte, N.C.; and Portland, Ore. -- are down at least 7 percent from the spring of 2009. Only Dallas has held up relatively well.
Dallas was also a special case during the housing boom; prices there rose more slowly than in any other market except Detroit. One reason for both its slow ascent and subsequent slower fall may be that, because of state laws, refinancing mortgages is harder in Texas. That meant there was less money available to bid up prices in good times, and fewer homes worth less than was owed when the bad times arrived.
Detroit home prices have also done relatively well in recent months. In 2011, prices there rose a small amount, making it the only market to show a gain for the year.
Some of the markets where speculation was heaviest seem to be recovering. Prices in all three California markets are still higher than they were in the spring of 2009, and prices in Phoenix fell less in 2011 than they did in most markets. But Las Vegas, perhaps the most speculative market during the boom, is still suffering. Prices there have fallen nearly 20 percent since the spring of 2009, more than in any other market.
It is possible that the home price situation is not as bleak as portrayed by the Case-Shiller indexes. A major challenge for any home price index is assuring comparability. Case-Shiller does that by comparing prices of homes with the price of the same home when it was previously sold.
The risk is that such comparisons may overlook changes to the home between transactions. During the boom, that meant the index might overstate gains because a home rose in value in part because of the addition of a new bedroom or swimming pool. Now, it may overstate losses because a disproportionate portion of sales in some markets are foreclosures, which are less likely to have been well maintained and in some cases may have been abandoned and vandalized before a new sale takes place. Mr. Stiff said Fiserv tried to minimize that problem by reducing the impact on the index of home sales that appear to show unusually large increases or decreases.
Another national index, maintained by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, showed a smaller decline in prices in 2011, and says prices hit bottom last February, before rising a little late in the year. That index is based on data from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are regulated by the agency.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Home Prices Resume Their Fall: Home prices in most parts of the country appeared to bottom out in the summer of 2009 and to begin a slow recovery. But now they have fallen below 2009 levels in most markets, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller indexes released this week. Markets where prices peaked in 2007, rather than earlier, generally seem to be suffering the most now.
S. & P./CASE-SHILLER 20-CITY COMPOSITE INDEX: Change from January 2000
 S. & P./CASE-SHILLER INDEXES: Change from April 2009 to December 2011 (Source: Standard & Poor's / Case-Shiller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FORECLOSURE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (51%)

COMPANY: FISERV INC (57%)

TICKER: FISV (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



102 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Energy Shares Are Lower In a Down Day on Wall St.

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks ended the day lower on Friday, but the Standard & Poor's and Nasdaq indexes still closed with weekly gains for the eighth week out of the last nine.
Energy shares were the big losers in the decline, falling alongside crude oil prices, though other cyclical groups, including industrials and financials, also fell.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has gained almost 9 percent since the beginning of the year. But mixed economic data and tensions between Iran and Israel have given investors few reasons lately to chase the market higher after three straight winning weeks for the benchmark index. 
''We're in a small pullback, but that's to be expected after a very strong rally,'' said David Kelly, the chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York.
''Unless something major happens, we'll continue to move up,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''It's like we're trying to find our way around a dark room: We're making progress, but slowly because of all the uncertainty out there about Europe and the Middle East.''
The day's strongest sector was telecommunications, which rose 0.5 percent. The group was led higher by AT&T, up 0.8 percent at $30.87, and Verizon Communications, up 0.6 percent at $38.67. Both stocks are Dow components.
The Dow Jones industrial average dipped 2.73 points, or 0.02 percent, to 12,977.57 at the close. The S.& P. 500 slipped 4.46 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,369.63. The Nasdaq composite index fell 12.78 points, or 0.43 percent, to close at 2,976.19.
For the week, the Dow inched down 0.05 percent, while the S.& P. 500 rose 0.3 percent and the Nasdaq added 0.4 percent. On Tuesday, the Dow closed above 13,000 for the first time since May 2008, although it has struggled since to maintain that level.
Investors kept a close eye on oil prices, which have risen more than 15 percent since the start of February. A steep rise in crude and gasoline prices could cut into consumer spending and hinder the economic recovery.
''We're already at the level where crude prices are a concern for economic growth,'' said Tim Speiss, head of personal wealth advisers at EisnerAmper in New York.
Crude oil futures fell more than 2 percent, or $2.14, to settle at $106.70 a barrel a day after hitting a 10-month high above $110 on supply concerns in the Middle East.
The decline hit energy shares, sending the S.& P. energy sector index down 1.1 percent. Peabody Energy fell 6.5 percent to $32.89 while Exxon Mobil declined 0.6 percent to $86.33.
Aides to President Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel are scrambling to bridge differences over what Washington fears could be an Israeli attack on Iran's nuclear sites, a concern at the heart of the recent spike in oil prices. The leaders will meet on Monday.
Stock in the consumer-review site Yelp surged as high as $26 a share in its debut, up more than 70 percent from its initial price. The initial public offering was priced at $15 a share, above the expected price range, valuing the site at nearly $900 million. Shares closed their first day of trading at $24.58, up 63.9 percent.
The food and drink maker Sara Lee will pay a special $3 dividend after it completes the spinoff of its coffee and tea business, expected by the end of June. Shares of Sara Lee rose 7.1 percent, to $21.83.
Shares of Shutterfly jumped 16.5 percent to $31.36 after Eastman Kodak agreed to sell its online photo services business to Shutterfly for $23.8 million.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 100 6/32, and the yield fell to 1.96 percent from 2.03 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); FUTURES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); EISNERAMPER LLP (51%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



103 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: The Poverty Of an Idea

BYLINE: By MAURICE ISSERMAN. 
Maurice Isserman, a professor of history at Hamilton College, is the author of ''The Other American: The Life of Michael Harrington.''

 BODY:
Clinton, N.Y.
THE libertarian writer Charles Murray has probably done more than any other contemporary thinker to keep alive the idea of a ''culture of poverty,'' the theory that poor people are trapped by distorted norms and aspirations and not merely material deprivation. His latest book, ''Coming Apart,'' has gotten a flood of attention for its depiction of a white underclass increasingly disconnected from marriage, work, religion and the rule of law.
Overlooked in the debate, however, is the role that an earlier book -- by Michael Harrington, a young Socialist intellectual whose views differed radically from Mr. Murray's -- played in framing, and bringing to the forefront, the analysis of poverty as a social problem. 
Published 50 years ago this month, when Harrington was 34, ''The Other America: Poverty in the United States'' was a surprise best seller that influenced the direction of social welfare policy, particularly Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, as well as the backlash that followed it. Just 186 pages in the original edition, the book had a simple thesis: poverty was more extensive and tenacious than an affluent America had assumed. ''That the poor are invisible is one of the most important things about them,'' he wrote.
But his explanation for the stubbornness of poverty would ultimately lend ammunition both to Great Society liberals and to those, like Mr. Murray, who opposed such spending. Harrington had picked up the idea of a ''culture of poverty'' from the anthropologist Oscar Lewis, whose 1959 study of Mexican slum dwellers identified a ''subculture'' of lowered aspirations and short-term gratification. Echoing Lewis, Harrington argued that American poverty constituted ''a separate culture, another nation, with its own way of life.'' It would not be solved merely by economic expansion or moral exhortation, he contended, but by a ''comprehensive assault on poverty.''
Deeply sympathetic as he was to the poor, his argument, pitched to more affluent readers, was couched in a tone of calm reason. He did not hesitate to present the seedier sides of the Other America: domestic violence, sexual promiscuity, substance abuse. In his view, these problems were not a judgment on the poor as individuals, but on a society indifferent to their plight. His popularization of the phrase ''culture of poverty'' has unintended consequences. There was nothing in the ''vicious circle'' of pathology he sketched that was culturally determined, but in the hands of others, the idea came to signify an ingrained system of norms passed from generation to generation.
Harrington's prescription was a broad federal jobs program, in essence a return to the New Deal's strategy for coping with the Great Depression. But the 1960s War on Poverty was not fought according to that strategy. Underfinanced and often poorly targeted, it was nevertheless not an abject failure; ''community action'' was a controversial and short-lived experiment, but successes from Medicaid to Head Start have endured. In politics, however, perception frequently trumps reality. We like our wars, actual and metaphorical, to deliver swift and unconditional victories, and that kind of victory was beyond the capacity of the war on poverty to deliver.
Harrington had initially been drawn to the concept of the culture of poverty because he thought it would serve as a prod to federal action on housing, medical care, education and jobs. What he did not anticipate was that the theory could cut in other ways, antithetical to his values and policy preferences. Conservatives took the attitudes and behaviors Harrington saw as symptoms of poverty and portrayed them as its direct causes.
In his 1984 book, ''Losing Ground,'' Mr. Murray argued that welfare programs abet rather than ameliorate poverty. The book dismissed Harrington's prescription for ending poverty, and Harrington returned the favor. In ''The New American Poverty,'' published the same year, he called Mr. Murray the right-wing equivalent of a ''vulgar Marxist,'' a social theorist who believed in a ''one-to-one relationship between the economic and the political or the psychological.''
Harrington's culture-of-poverty thesis was at best an ambiguous impediment to understanding -- in later books, he made no use of the term. But in its moral clarity, ''The Other America'' was ultimately optimistic; it was less an indictment and more an appeal to Americans to live up to their better instincts.
Since Harrington's death from cancer in 1989, at 61, no obvious successor has assumed the role of socialist tribune that Eugene V. Debs, Norman Thomas and then Harrington so eloquently filled. We are left instead with the insistent, culturally determined arguments of Mr. Murray and others of like mind, dominating the discourse in a harsher America. And we have no Michael Harrington to answer the challenge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Other America: Poverty in the United States, The (Book); Coming Apart (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



104 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Only Crippling Sanctions Will Stop Iran

BYLINE: By EMANUELE OTTOLENGHI. 
Emanuele Ottolenghi, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, is the author of ''The Pasdaran: Inside Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.''

 BODY:
Brussels
IMAGINE two men planning for years to escape from a high-security mental institution that is surrounded by 100 walls. On the night of their escape, they reach the 99th wall, and one asks the other, ''Are you tired yet?''
''Yes,'' says the second one. And so they go back to their cells. 
Are Iran's leaders that crazy?
In the current standoff over Iran's nuclear program, Western policy is guided by a key assumption: Iran's decision makers are rational actors, and their calculations about their nuclear program are driven by cost-benefit analyses. By gradually increasing the costs of Iran's nuclear pursuit, Western decision makers believe, Tehran will eventually concede.
They are only half right. Western expectations that Iran will behave rationally and agree to a compromise under the increasing pressure of sanctions ignore Iran's perspective on the costs already incurred, the price of completing the journey and the advantages of turning back. For Iran, it is far more rational at this point to accelerate the program and reject any agreement the West would be prepared to sign.
Historical precedents demonstrate that Iran's decision makers are not impervious to cost-benefit analysis. One such instance was the decision, by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, to agree to a cease-fire with Iraq in the summer of 1988.
Ayatollah Khomeini had previously refused to entertain such a possibility -- for him, defeating Saddam Hussein's Iraq was a religious duty. Yet he was able to reverse the religious imperative to avoid greater damage. But he could have made that calculus in 1982, when, two years into the bloody conflict, Iran had managed to reconquer all Iranian territory that Iraq had initially captured following its surprise attack in September 1980.
Iran's leaders knew their army was woefully unprepared and underequipped to conduct a war of conquest against a vastly superior Iraqi Army. But they chose to sacrifice hundreds of thousands of young lives in pointless trench warfare reminiscent of World War I because they understood that under the cover of conflict they could consolidate the still fragile government and defeat all residual opposition to Islamic rule -- a rational choice at the time.
Ayatollah Khomeini ended the war when it became clear that the front was collapsing and discontent was undermining his rule. In short, letting the war go on was rational in 1982, and so was ending it in 1988; the difference was half a million dead and the fact that Iran was on its knees.
Paranoia played a part as well. The accidental downing of an Iranian commercial airliner over the Persian Gulf by an American warship convinced Iran's leaders that the United States was prepared to commit any evil in order to guarantee Iran's defeat. That tragic episode was not intentional. Yet, in Iranian leaders' paranoid worldview, it was evidence that America was prepared to commit murder on a grand scale to defeat their country. Their paranoia was then, and remains now, integral to their cost-benefit analysis.
The Iran-Iraq war was not the only instance when Iran's leaders made the right choice after exhausting all other alternatives. In 1997, the Iranian regime realized that murdering its exiled opponents abroad was counterproductive. But Iran reversed itself only after its direct responsibility in a chain of brazen murders across Europe could no longer be denied.
After a German court indicted Iranian hit men and Iran's then intelligence minister, Ali Fallahian, for a 1992 massacre at a Berlin restaurant, European countries withdrew ambassadors from Tehran and severed diplomatic relations. Iran, again, was on its knees. Only then did a sensible decision occur.
What lessons can one learn from these precedents?
In their long and labyrinthine path to nuclear weapons, Iran's leaders have gone as far as the men who reached the 99th wall. No matter how hard, painful and difficult the last jump may be, it is but a stroll compared with the arduous journey undertaken by Iran in its nearly 30-year pursuit of nuclear weapons.
Why, then, should anyone expect Iran to renounce its aspirations now, when the goal appears within reach? And why would the prospect of some economic hardship alone persuade Iran to turn around, when the end of its journey is in sight?
As tough as the current sanctions against Iran are, they will work only if Iran is brought to its knees once again. The pain inflicted must be far greater for the country to see backtracking as preferable. Iran is a rational actor; and it cannot be dissuaded at this point, barring extreme measures.
If Western nations wish to avoid a military confrontation in the Persian Gulf and prevent a nuclear Iran, they must adopt crippling sanctions that will bring Iran's economy to the brink of collapse. That means a complete United Nations-imposed oil embargo enforced by a naval blockade, as well as total diplomatic isolation. And they must warn Iran that if it tries to jump the last wall, the West is willing and capable of inflicting devastating harm.
Otherwise, Iran's leaders will rationally conclude that it is better to make a run for their money rather than stop at the last wall and pull back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ARMIES (71%); RELIGION (69%); WORLD WAR I (62%); AIRLINES (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%) INDIAN OCEAN (65%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (72%); IRAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



105 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Rosey, the Remake

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
BEDFORD, Mass. -- Ever since Rosey the Robot took care of ''The Jetsons'' in the early 1960s, the promise of robots making everyday life easier has been a bit of a tease.
Rosey, a metallic maid with a frilly apron, ''kind of set expectations that robots were the future,'' said Colin M. Angle, the chief executive of the iRobot Corporation. ''Then, 50 years passed.''
Now Mr. Angle's company is trying to do Rosey one better -- with Ava, a 5-foot-4 assistant with an iPad or an Android tablet for a brain and Xbox motion sensors to help her get around. But no apron, so far.
Over the last decade, iRobot, based outside Boston, has emerged as one of the nation's top robot makers. It has sold millions of disc-shaped Roomba vacuum cleaners, and its bomb disposal robots have protected soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. Now, with Ava, it is using video and computing advances to create robots that can do office work remotely and perhaps one day handle more of the household chores. 
In late January, iRobot expanded a partnership with InTouch Health, a small company that enables doctors at computer screens to treat stroke victims and other patients from afar. And this week, Texas Instruments said it would supply iRobot with powerful new processors that could help the robots be more interactive and gradually lower their cost.
''We have a firm belief that the robotics market is on the cusp of exploding,'' said Remi El-Ouazzane, vice president and general manager of the Texas Instruments unit that makes the processors.
Mr. Angle's hopes for broadening the industry's appeal are shared by other robot companies, which have struggled to expand beyond industrial and military uses, toys and other niche products.
Programming robots to mimic human behavior remains difficult. But the ability to use the tablets as simple touch-screen controllers is attracting more software developers, who are envisioning applications that could enhance videoconferencing, provide mobile security guards and sales clerks and help the elderly live longer in their homes.
And with their own innovations now at the center of the effort, the technology giants -- Apple, Google, Microsoft and the semiconductor companies -- are also pushing things along.
Mr. Angle, 44, who has been at the forefront of robotics since he was a student at M.I.T., said Ava ''is one of the things in our pipeline that I am personally most excited about.'' But he cautioned that the robot was still a prototype and would not report for any actual work duties before next year.
Mr. Angle estimates that the early versions of Ava will cost in the tens of thousands of dollars, high enough that the company is focusing first on medical applications with InTouch Health, based in Santa Barbara, Calif.
InTouch already has robots with video hookups in many smaller hospitals, and they have saved lives in emergencies when specialists could not get there in person. But the doctors have to drive and manipulate the robots with joysticks to see the patients.
Mr. Angle said that a tap on Ava's tablet screen could dispatch it to the right room and free doctors from the more mundane controls. Its mapping system, based partly on Microsoft's 3-D motion sensor for the Xbox, could enable the robot to hustle to the patient's bedside without slamming into obstacles.
As time goes on, Mr. Angle says he thinks that businessmen could use the robots as proxies at meetings, speaking and watching wirelessly through Ava's headgear and even guiding her into the hall for private chats. And if the sticker price eventually gets down to consumer levels, as he thinks it will, Ava could, with arms added, dispense pills to baby boomers or even fetch them cocktails.
Still, given how long other robotic breakthroughs have taken, Wall Street is not sure what to make of all this yet.
As sales of its vacuums and military robots grew, iRobot's earnings shot up to $40 million last year from $756,000 in 2008, and its stock surged to $38 a share from $7. But with pressure mounting for budget cuts at the Pentagon, Mr. Angle told analysts last month that the company's military sales could drop by as much as 20 percent this year, and the stock quickly tumbled to $25 to $26 a share.
The company had laid off 55 of the 657 employees it had last fall in anticipation of a slowdown in military sales in the United States, and the head of that division departed last month amid concerns that iRobot had not picked up enough military sales to foreign governments.
Frank Tobe, an independent analyst who publishes the Robot Report online, said that until Ava was equipped to pick up and handle objects, the robot would have limited uses. But he said the partnership with InTouch gave iRobot a much-needed toehold in health care. iRobot plans to invest $6 million in InTouch, and Mr. Tobe said by combining their technologies, the companies could produce devices at a much lower cost and attract more business.
IRobot also faces growing competition from robotics companies in Asia and Europe, many subsidized by governments that believe the innovations will help push their economies forward. But analysts say iRobot has a number of crucial patents. And the company has a strong track record in finding practical uses for robots and getting them to market.
Mr. Angle's first robot, built in the late 1980s with Rodney Brooks, an M.I.T. professor, was Genghis, a buglike creature that ended up in the Smithsonian. Powered by microprocessors with only 156 bytes of memory, it could walk on six legs. It also showed that robots could be programmed to react to just a few basic rules.
That project piqued Mr. Angle's interest in building simple, practical robots. He, Dr. Brooks and another M.I.T. graduate, Helen Greiner, started iRobot in 1991, he said, ''to make robots that would touch people's lives on a daily basis.''
But that goal proved harder than they expected, and a decade of trial and error followed. Standing by a display here at the company's headquarters, Mr. Angle pointed to some of its early efforts, including a robotic doll for Hasbro called My Real Baby and little wooly blue and orange creatures that could scurry and hide.
But, he said, ''from the very first moments of iRobot, whenever I would introduce myself to someone on an airplane or wherever, the response nearly 100 percent of the time was not 'How are you?' but 'When are you going to clean my floors?' They wanted Rosey from 'The Jetsons.' ''
''So very, very early on, we knew cleaning was a great application, if only we could figure out how to do it,'' he added.
But it was not until 2002 that everything came together, with the introduction of the Roomba vacuum and an urgent military demand for robots that could check out dangerous caves in Afghanistan. Those 50- to 60-pound robots, called Packbots, also turned out to be critical in Iraq in disarming roadside bombs and acting as sentries at checkpoints.
Since then, sales of new versions of the Roomba, which cost $350 to $600 each, have taken off, especially overseas. The company has started selling robots for cleaning bathroom floors, called Scooba, for $280 to $500. It has also developed lightweight robots with video cameras that soldiers can toss into windows before storming a building. They include a 30-pound model and a tiny new five-pounder, called FirstLook, now being tested in Afghanistan. And even if their orders slow, top Pentagon officials remain committed to robots to save money and soldiers' lives.
The company's goal, Mr. Angle said, continues to be building robots that can operate more autonomously or provide ''remote presence'' -- tech-speak for enabling people to be in two places at one time.
(Mr. Angle knows something of that language. After he appeared in 2008 as an M.I.T. professor in a film with Kevin Spacey called ''21,'' the director said he had gotten just what he wanted from Mr. Angle. ''You know, you just can't coach geek.'')
Mr. Angle said he, too, was looking forward to the day when robots like Ava would have arms and even keener sight.
''I like the idea that if you have a party, the robot can recognize faces, take drink orders, go back to the kitchen, load it up and then go back and find those people and deliver the drinks,'' he said. ''I think that would be awesome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ava, above, iRobot's personal assistant robot, is no match for the Jetsons' Rosey. At least not yet. But Ava could find use in health care settings soon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOFEST) (B1)
The iRobot 310 SUGV, top, can gather information in dangerous conditions and lift up to 15 pounds. Colin Angle, iRobot's chief executive, above with Ava, said the robot was '' one of the things in our pipeline that I am personally most excited about.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IROBOT
 JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBOTICS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (88%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (87%); ELECTRONICS (76%); MOTION DETECTORS (74%); HOME SECURITY (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (71%); STROKES (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (62%)

COMPANY: IROBOT CORP (83%); APPLE INC (81%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: IRBT (NASDAQ) (83%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS238220 PLUMBING, HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (83%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (75%); IRAQ (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



106 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Large Gains for Pakistan Governing Party

BYLINE: By DECLAN WALSH and SALMAN MASOOD; Ismail Khan contributed reporting from Peshawar, Pakistan.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- The government here cemented its grip on power on Friday with strong gains in Senate elections that represented a psychological victory for the beleaguered president, Asif Ali Zardari, and should ensure his party's influence for another three years.
By late evening, the governing Pakistan Peoples Party and its coalition allies had won 32 of 49 possible seats; another 5 seats were to be announced, but the result could not prevent the government from taking control of the upper house of Parliament. 
It was an important milestone for Mr. Zardari and his supporters, who only a few months ago were dogged by sporadic speculation of a military coup and threats from assertive judges and lurid political scandals.
Those dangers have not entirely abated, but the Senate victory showed that Mr. Zardari's party -- whose supporters not long ago warned of a ''soft coup'' -- has greater staying power than its critics ever imagined.
''This is a huge boost for the P.P.P.,'' said Cyril Almeida, a senior columnist with Dawn, Pakistan's biggest English-language newspaper. ''At a time when few people believed this government would survive, they have managed to pull it off.''
Now Mr. Zardari's party will dominate the upper house until March 2015, giving it the power to block legislation -- even if it is defeated in general elections, which are scheduled for February 2013, but which analysts expect this fall. ''This election is the result of political maturity, from all the parties,'' said Senator Raza Rabbani of the Pakistan Peoples Party, one of the winners, on Friday evening.
The government is not in the clear yet. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, faces contempt charges as part of a Supreme Court corruption investigation. He could also be jailed for six months and barred from public office. The economy is in a chronic state of disrepair and, in the northwest, Islamist militants are pressing their violent campaign.
Two bloody clashes on Friday in the Khyber tribal agency, along the Afghan border, underscored the challenge facing Pakistan's leaders. A predawn assault by dozens of fighters from Lashkar-e-Islam, a local militant group, on a government security post killed 10 soldiers and 23 militants, said a local security official who spoke anonymously.
Hours later, Lashkar-e-Islam itself came under attack when a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the group's base in the Tirah Valley, killing another 23 people, the local administrator, Mutahirzeb Khan, said. Officials speculated that the bomber had been sent by a rival Islamist militia, possibly the main Pakistani Taliban group.
Mr. Zardari's Senate triumph arrived as the theatrical scandal that gripped the political system just a few months ago appeared to be fizzling out.
Last fall, Mansoor Ijaz, an American businessman of Pakistani origin, caused a sensation with claims that he had written a private memo to the United States government last May, on behalf of Mr. Zardari, requesting American assistance in the event of a military coup.
Mr. Ijaz said the government had offered to neuter the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate in return for American help -- a claim that set off fury inside the military, whose leaders have long distrusted Mr. Zardari, and which led to the formation of a judicial commission of inquiry that started work in January.
But although the scandal cost the job of Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington whom Mr. Ijaz accused of complicity in the memo, it failed to produce the promised fireworks that would damage the government. After initially refusing to travel to Pakistan to testify, citing security concerns, Mr. Ijaz finally gave evidence via video link from London this week.
But he failed to produce hard evidence to back up his earlier allegations, although he did make fresh attacks on the president. Citing ''intelligence sources,'' Mr. Ijaz told the commission on Friday that Mr. Zardari had prior knowledge of the American Special Forces raid in May that killed Osama bin Laden.
Moreover, he said, during the operation, Mr. Zardari had urged the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, not to scramble F-16 fighter jets against American military helicopters after they were detected in Pakistani airspace.
If proven, the claims would devastate Mr. Zardari's career, given the strength of anti-American feeling in Pakistan. Instead, they were received with a virtual national shrug.
The military and president's office offered no reaction, while lawmakers from all the main political parties concentrated on filling the 104-member Senate, which includes reserved seats for minorities, women and technocrats. Half of the Senate's 100 members run for re-election every three years; a recent constitutional amendment provided for four new seats for non-Muslim minorities.
The election was also marked by allegations of corruption. Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the opposition leader in the National Assembly, said some seats had been ''publicly auctioned,'' a reference to allegations that some contestants bought the winning votes. A relative of one parliamentarian from the northwest, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that his relative's vote was on sale for 20 million rupees, or $222,000.
Away from the wheeling and dealing of parliamentary politics, the failure of Pakistan's leaders to tackle the enduring problems of prejudice facing their country remained painfully obvious. Christians commemorated the first anniversary of the death of Shahbaz Bhatti, the minister for minorities, who was gunned down, reportedly by Islamist fanatics, in an Islamabad suburb in March 2011.
Just a few miles away, there were signs that such intolerance has not abated. In Rawalpindi, which adjoins Islamabad, police blocked members of the minority Ahmadi community from reaching their place of worship in Satellite Town neighborhood on Friday morning.
The police blockade was a response to a demonstration a week earlier outside the Ahmadu mosque by members of Jamaat ud Dawa, an Islamist charity seen as a front for the militant organization Lashkar-e-Taiba. Since then, several Ahmadis have received death threats.
''We are being denied the right to worship,'' said a senior member of the Ahmadi community, speaking on condition of anonymity because he feared for his safety. ''You can never placate these elements. Today they are objecting over Friday congregation. Tomorrow they will raise another issue. They will never be happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hari Ram Kishori Lal, center, of the Pakistan Peoples Party, was elected to a Senate seat reserved for minorities. The party and its coalition allies won 32 out of a possible 49 seats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); COUPS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); WRITERS (66%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



107 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Oil Retreats After a Rise Above $110

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Oil prices retreated to below $107 a barrel Friday after Saudi Arabian authorities denied an Iranian media report of a Saudi pipeline explosion.
By late afternoon in Europe, benchmark oil for April delivery was down $2.24 cents to $106.60 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose $1.77 to $108.84 a barrel in New York on Thursday. 
In London, Brent crude was down $1.64 to $124.73 a barrel.
Crude jumped to $110.55 late Thursday after an unconfirmed Iranian media report of a pipeline explosion in Saudi Arabia. Saudi officials denied the report.
Oil prices have risen from $96 last month amid fears that conflict over Iran's nuclear program could set off a disruption in global crude supplies. The United States and Europe are imposing sanctions on Iran while the Middle Eastern country has threatened to cut supplies to some countries and halt oil tankers passing through the Persian Gulf's Straits of Hormuz.
Signs of an improving American economy have also bolstered investor optimism and crude prices. The government said Thursday that applications for unemployment benefits hit a four-year low while spending on residential construction rose and major retailers reported stronger-than-expected sales for February.
''Investors were buying on Iran fears and on general expectations for a stronger economy,'' an energy consultant, Cameron Hanover, said in a report. However, ''it's hard for the economy to grow with gasoline and oil prices as high as they are.''
In other energy trading, heating oil fell 3.16 cents to $3.2437 a gallon and gasoline futures were down 4.26 cents at $3.3091 a gallon. Natural gas rose 2 cents at $2.483 per 1,000 cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (66%); RETAILERS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



108 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2020 words

HEADLINE: Builders of Casino Empire Split, And the Bitter Accusations Fly

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
MACAO -- For more than a decade, they were the odd couple of gambling.
In the early going, Stephen A. Wynn, the Las Vegas magnate with a thousand-watt smile, was on the rebound after his casino and resorts empire, Mirage Resorts, was sold after an unsolicited takeover offer in 2000.
To bankroll his comeback, he turned to a Japanese billionaire, Kazuo Okada, who had made much of his fortune manufacturing gaming machines for Japan's notorious pachinko parlors -- and who was adept at the wild ways of the mushrooming Asian gambling industry.
Together they formed Wynn Resorts, with Mr. Okada eventually becoming the company's biggest shareholder. 
''I love Kazuo Okada as much as any man that I've ever met in my life,'' Mr. Wynn effused during an earnings conference call in May 2008.
The love affair is over. Mr. Wynn and Mr. Okada are now embroiled in a nasty corporate divorce, in one of the most rancorous public feuds the international gambling industry has ever seen.
With each side accusing the other of questionable payments to public officials in Asia, many gambling executives fear collateral damage. They worry that the accusations could prompt government investigations into any number of ethically questionable business practices in gambling, where Asian regulators have often looked the other way.
''It's like two gunslingers shooting it out,'' said a longtime industry official, who insisted on anonymity because he knew both men and wanted to protect the relationships. ''And what I'm wondering is whether they'll both kill each other.''
The fight is playing out in Las Vegas, where Wynn Resorts is based, and here in Macao, the former Portuguese seaport colony now controlled by China, where annual gambling revenue is four times that of the Las Vegas Strip. Macao (often spelled Macau) was the source of all of Wynn Resorts' $613.4 million in profit last year -- more than offsetting its money-losing properties in the moribund Nevada economy.
Despite the partners' joint success in playing the gambling game by Macao's lax house rules, Mr. Wynn's allies on the company's board are now accusing Mr. Okada of violating American foreign-corruption laws.
These allegations of missteps include giving a visiting Philippine gambling regulator and his entourage free use of the Wynn Macau casino-resort's Villa 81 -- a 7,000-square-foot pleasure palace that normally rents for $6,000 a night and has amenities including his-and-hers bathrooms with showers built to accommodate six people at a time.
Mr. Okada's camp, in turn, is questioning the propriety of a $135 million donation that Wynn Resorts made last year to the University of Macau -- its chancellor is also the head of Macao's government, with ultimate oversight of gambling. Mr. Okada's litigation has prompted an inquiry by the United States.
Both sides deny wrongdoing. Mr. Wynn and Mr. Okada declined to be interviewed.
One source of friction is that Mr. Okada is pursuing his own casino business in the Philippines, through a company separate from Wynn Resorts. Mr. Okada's going it alone originally had Mr. Wynn's public blessing.
But shortly after Wynn Resorts decided early last year that it would not follow Mr. Okada into the Philippine gambling industry -- whose reputation is questionable even by Asian gaming standards -- the company started an investigation of Mr. Okada, conducted by a firm run by the former F.B.I. director Louis J. Freeh.
The Wynn Resorts board cited the reporting by the Freeh Group last week in explaining that Mr. Okada's suspected blandishments to Philippine gaming officials, through use of Wynn hotels in Macao and Las Vegas, were grounds for drastic action: forcing Mr. Okada to leave the company and to sell back his nearly 20 percent stake at a 30 percent discount to the current stock price.
It may eventually be left to courts to decide whether either side has actually broken any laws, and whether -- as Mr. Okada's camp contends -- Mr. Wynn is seeking to jettison the Japanese executive over behavior he has long abided because he no longer needs Mr. Okada's money.
Macao casino regulators have asked Wynn Resorts for ''detailed information'' about the various accusations. The Macao officials also want to know more about the company's forced buyout of Mr. Okada and his ouster from the board of its Wynn Macau subsidiary.
The president of the Philippines, Benigno S. Aquino III, has ordered an investigation. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an informal inquiry into the university donation.
And Nevada regulators are watching the Wynn-Okada fight. ''We are looking at it, and will evaluate it and come to our own conclusions,'' said Mark A. Lipparelli, the chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, in a telephone interview.
The Nevada board's interest is more than idle curiosity. Under its relatively taut regulations, allegations of corruption raise the risk that a person or company can be declared unsuitable, lose their licenses and be barred from the gambling industry.
''Our license would be put under a cloud if we were to not take action, waiting for someone else to do so,'' said Robert Miller, the chairman of Wynn Resorts' compliance committee, in a conference call with reporters on Feb. 21.
But experts on Nevada regulations say that Wynn Resorts might have been overstating its case in implying that Mr. Okada's suspected transgressions threatened the company's very existence.
The company's stock price has recently risen on news of the company's discounted buyback of Mr. Okada's shares. But it is still down 18.8 percent from its peak of $156.70 last July, with much of the decline coming last autumn after the Macao government delayed a decision on whether to let the company build a second casino and resort on land it had already leased. (On Friday, the company's shares gyrated as it initially sent a filing to the S.E.C. claiming progress on the second casino application, but later rescinded the filing, saying it was a clerical error. The shares rose 4.3 percent for the day, ending at $127.27.)
By the time Wynn Resorts began its own investigation of Mr. Okada's business activities last year rather than asking Nevada regulators to review them -- partly because Nevada's rules require companies to self-police -- tensions had already reached the point that he was forced out as the company's vice chairman in October.
By that time, too, the board was pressuring Mr. Okada to sign an antibribery compliance agreement -- which he dismissed as a set of restrictions better suited to keeping a croupier on the up and up than governing the activities of an international supplier of gambling equipment.
But it was not until Feb. 18, three days after investigators from the Freeh Group interviewed Mr. Okada for the first time, that the board voted to force him to sell back his stake to the company.
Mr. Okada and his lawyers have for months been pursuing their own grievances against Wynn Resorts. After coming last year to the donations ceremony, he now questions the $135 million donation -- the largest in the university's 31 years, and payable over 11 years -- asking what the company would get in return. Mr. Okada's lawyers have asked a Nevada court to force the company to hand over documents related to the gift.
When they first teamed up in 2000, Mr. Wynn was looking to reinvest part of the $500 million he took away after selling Mirage Resorts to the buyout billionaire Kirk Kerkorian's MGM Grand. Mr. Okada, for his part, had a $4.7 billion personal fortune built largely on selling pachinko machines -- a cross between pinball tables and slot machines used in gambling parlors in Japan that have long been accused of links to organized crime.
Almost from the start, their partnership was dogged by controversy. Mr. Okada, who had been Japan's largest individual taxpayer the year before, was engaged in a series of tax disputes with Japanese authorities.
At a 2004 regulatory hearing, a Nevada official told Mr. Okada that Mr. Wynn was putting his reputation on the line in allying himself with someone from the Japanese pachinko industry, even if regulators had never found ties between Mr. Okada and crime rings.
But Mr. Wynn made a show of being seen with his Japanese business partner, whether at Los Angeles Lakers basketball games, charity events or Nevada regulatory hearings.
Mr. Okada proved a valuable resource when Wynn Resorts opened its first casino and hotel complex in Macao in 2005, providing a deep knowledge of the Asian gambling scene. And in that 2008 financial conference call, when asked about Mr. Okada's planned Philippines foray, Mr. Wynn professed his support and counsel on the project. ''He's my partner and friend,'' Mr. Wynn said, ''and there is hardly anything that I won't do for him.''
Now, though, people on both sides of the feud question whether the two men were ever really close or whether they were simply maintaining appearances to help win regulatory approval for their projects in the United States and abroad. Skeptics now wonder aloud how simpatico the supposed buddies could have really been, given that Mr. Okada speaks little English, while Mr. Wynn understands virtually no Japanese.
''Steve told me, 'We live 10,000 miles apart; we don't speak the same language,' '' said a person who knows Mr. Wynn and insisted on anonymity because of the likelihood of litigation between Mr. Wynn and Mr. Okada. Whether it was a true friendship or just a business alliance, Mr. Wynn had clearly hedged his bets.
During one of Mr. Okada's tax disputes, in 2000 Mr. Wynn flew to Tokyo to negotiate an unusual arrangement. Mr. Okada was forced to accept a series of restrictions on his holdings in the company, including a provision that might eventually give Mr. Wynn the discretion to declare him an unsuitable investor and force Mr. Okada to sell his stake back to the company in exchange for a 10-year promissory note.
The board invoked that provision Feb. 18 in forcing the sale of Mr. Okada's 19.7 percent stake in Wynn Resorts back to the company, which went public in October 2002. According to the company's most recent proxy statement, Mr. Wynn owned 8 percent of its stock -- a smaller stake than he and his first wife, Elaine P. Wynn, jointly held before their divorce settlement in January a year ago.
The company's investigative report accuses Mr. Wynn's erstwhile partner of providing Philippine regulators with a series of benefits worth a total of $110,000.
Many of the favors came in the form of free lodging at Wynn hotels, in Las Vegas and Macao. The most notable might be the four free nights at the Villa 81 here in September 2010 by an entourage led by the chairman of the Philippines Amusement and Gaming Corporation, a government-owned enterprise that is both the regulator and main operator of Philippine casinos. The Freeh Group said he checked in incognito, suggesting someone wanted to hide his stay, but was recognized by hotel staffers.
Besides its showers for six, the Villa 81 amenities include a massage parlor, hair salon and media room with a 100-inch flat-panel TV. For paying customers, usually casino high-rollers, the boarding bill alone would have come to $24,000.
The Philippine chairman, Cristino Naguiat, acknowledged in a statement that he accepted the free lodging, but denied there was anything wrong with it. ''Any insinuation that the complimentary accommodations extended to me and my family, who subsequently joined me for the weekend, were a bribe is untrue and just plain wrong,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about a dispute between Stephen A. Wynn and Kazuo Okada over the company they formed, Wynn Resorts, misstated the reason for Mr. Okada's leaving the vice chairman's position last October. He was forced out; he did not resign. The article also misstated the disposition of a previous company controlled by Mr. Wynn, Mirage Resorts. It was sold to Kirk Kerkorian's MGM Grand after an unsolicited offer; it did not change hands in a hostile takeover.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen A. Wynn and Kazuo Okada at a 2004 hearing in Nevada. In 2008, Mr. Wynn said, ''He's my partner and friend.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHLEEN ALLISON/NEVADA APPEAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Wynn's Macao casino accounted for all of the company's profit last year -- more than offsetting its money-losing sites in Nevada.Wynn's shares are down nearly 20 percent from last summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL J. GROSHONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAPS: Wynn Resorts, based in Las Vegas, opened its first casino and hotel in Macao in 2005. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RESORTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CORRUPTION (72%); ETHICS (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: WYNN RESORTS LTD (92%)

TICKER: WYNN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) MACAO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



109 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: 'Super PACs,' Not Campaigns, Do Bulk of Ad Spending

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Trip Gabriel contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The crucial role the ''super PAC'' now plays in modern presidential politics has been on vivid display in the week before the Super Tuesday primaries, as these outside groups have all outspent the campaigns and become their de facto advertising arms.
The super PACs supporting Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich have poured nearly $4 million into advertising in Ohio ahead of the primary next week, accounting for most of the spending on commercials there in what has become an overwhelmingly negative contest. 
Beyond Ohio the story is the same. The money spent by super PACs, another $8 million, continues to outpace what candidates themselves are willing and able to spend. Mr. Romney, whose campaign spent almost three times as much as it brought in during January, has chosen not to advertise in any Super Tuesday state but Ohio. He has committed about $1.2 million to advertising there, according to figures provided by media strategists.
Meanwhile, Restore Our Future, the super PAC supporting Mr. Romney, has sunk about $7 million into advertising on broadcast television, cable and radio in the last month, blanketing the airwaves from Idaho to Georgia.
Mr. Gingrich has run no ads of his own in any state. But the super PAC that supports him, Winning Our Future, has committed $3.7 million to seven states.
Mr. Santorum only recently began receiving donations large enough to advertise in any significant way, leaving the affiliated super PAC, the Red, White and Blue Fund, to carry the weight in Ohio, where it has put about $500,000 into TV commercials. But Friday the campaign started making moves into other states, buying about $400,000 worth of broadcast time in Georgia, Ohio, Oklahoma and Tennessee.
The tone of the advertising in Ohio offers a telling example of how super PACs have assumed the role of attack machine. Of the 11 commercials pegged to the presidential election run on Ohio television since Feb. 1, all but one have been negative, according to Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group.
That positive ad was a 30-second spot by the pro-Romney super PAC featuring a former employee of Mr. Romney's, Bob Gay. Mr. Gay tells an uplifting story about the time his daughter went missing in New York and how Mr. Romney helped find her.
The other ads are more like one the pro-Gingrich super PAC is running in Atlanta. It features interviews with Gingrich supporters who offer critical observations about Mr. Romney.
''Mitt Romney?'' says one man, sighing and rolling his eyes. A woman complains about rising gas prices. ''We're looking at $5, $6 gas. Romney's not the type to pump his own gas,'' she says.
Another from the Santorum PAC begins, ''How can Mitt Romney beat Barack Obama when on the vital decisions they're not that much different?''
Not all the attacks on Mr. Romney are coming from fellow Republicans. The super PAC supporting President Obama, Priorities USA Action, and the American Federation of Federal, State, County and Municipal Employees are both running ads attacking Mr. Romney's opposition to the federal loan program that helped rescue the auto industry.
Despite the barrage, or because of it, there were fresh signs Friday that Mr. Romney was closing the gap in polls in Ohio. Just a few days ago he looked as if he might lose to Mr. Santorum. But a new Quinnipiac University poll shows the two in a dead heat, with Mr. Santorum drawing the support of 35 percent of likely Republican primary voters to Mr. Romney's 31 percent. That difference is within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Helping Mr. Romney's rise could be his own negative ads and those from Restore Our Future, both of which have assailed Mr. Santorum as a creature of Washington who compromised his principles for political expediency.
''In the Senate, Rick Santorum voted for Planned Parenthood,'' one ad running in Ohio begins. It then cuts to a sound bite from a debate last week -- one that Mr. Romney and his campaign have seized on repeatedly in recent days -- in which Mr. Santorum explained himself. ''When you're part of the team sometimes you take one for the team,'' he is heard saying. For emphasis, the commercial provides subtitles.
A Restore Our Future commercial uses a clip from that same moment in the debate last week in Arizona. The ad ends with the announcer's indictment: ''Twenty years in Washington changed Santorum's principles.''
Off the airwaves, candidates campaigned in states where their political fortunes rest.
Mr. Romney appeared in Bellevue, Wash., ahead of the caucuses on Saturday, where he stuck to an economic message and Mr. President Obama. In the evening, he appeared in Ohio, where Mr. Santorum had spent the entire day, reflecting how the state, with its blue-collar cache of voters, is crucial to his candidacy. Mr. Santorum barely mentioned Mr. Romney by name, but attacked his conservative credentials, borrowing from Lewis Carroll. ''We need a choice,'' he said at a campaign appearance on Friday in Chillicothe, Ohio. ''We don't need a choice between Tweedledum and Tweedledee. We need a clear choice.''
For his part, Mr. Gingrich seemed heartened -- even at ease -- by his standing in Georgia polls, which show him handily winning his home state. He made a four-city swing by chartered plane Friday around southern Georgia, his fifth consecutive day there. Never shy about taking on his Republican rivals, Mr. Gingrich mostly left them out of his remarks. He did, however, save some harsh words for Mr. Obama for apologizing to Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, after American soldiers burned Korans confiscated from prisoners.
''If I were president, I would have called Karzai and said, 'If you don't apologize for your soldiers killing Americans, we will be gone immediately,' '' Mr. Gingrich said. ''Good luck trying to survive without us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum supporters encountered protesters after a rally Friday in Chillicothe, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A frame from a commercial by a pro-Newt Gingrich group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WINNING OUR FUTURE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



110 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO) HANNA (2011) Saoirse Ronan, above, stars as a teenage assassin trying to elude a ruthless C.I.A. operative (Cate Blanchett) and her two huntsmen in this action movie from Joe Wright, who also directed Ms. Ronan in her Oscar-nominated role in ''Atonement.'' Eric Bana is the warrior father, wrapped in animal skins, who has trained Hanna from childhood in northern Finland to become a killing machine. ''Round and round they go and where they stop, well, you probably know,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''In the end there might not be much to this tale other than titillation, but there's plenty to be said for Ms. Ronan, who was the best thing about 'Atonement' and holds her ground against forceful screen presences like Ms. Blanchett and Mr. Bana.'' That her translucent blue eyes, transformed here into opaque pools, ''don't reveal much is part of the big surprise as well as a liability in a movie that is by turns startling and generic, subtle and blunt, and consistently keeps you in its grip if not its heart,'' Ms. Dargis added. 
7 P.M. (Univision); 8 P.M. (Fox) Q'VIVA! THE CHOSEN Jennifer Lopez, Marc Anthony and Jamie King travel through Latin America in search of outstanding performers in this new series. The best of the group will go to the United States to prepare for an extravaganza.
8 P.M. (Fox News Channel) HUCKABEE In a forum on jobs broadcast from a closed DHL distribution hub in Wilmington, Ohio, Mike Huckabee, three local residents and three panelists -- Charlie Gasparino of Fox Business Network; David McArthur, a small-business owner in St. Louis; and Elaine Chao, a former secretary of labor -- will pose questions on job creation and the economy to Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich. ''Special Report With Bret Baier,'' at 10, will offer results from the Washington caucuses and look at expectations for Super Tuesday.
8 P.M. (Lifetime) BLUE-EYED BUTCHER (2012) In this dramatization of a true story, Sara Paxton, right, plays Susan Wright, a young wife and mother with a seemingly fairy-tale life who ties her husband (Justin Bruening) to a bed, stabs him nearly 200 times and buries his body in the backyard of their Houston house after what she claims were years of physical and mental abuse. Lisa Edelstein is Kelly Siegler, the prosecutor who sees Susan as a doe-eyed sociopath focused on a $200,000 life insurance policy.
8 P.M. (Ovation) WE'LL TAKE MANHATTAN (2012) He was an upstart Cockney photographer. She was his girlfriend, an unknown model he'd met at an advertising shoot for Kellogg's Corn Flakes. Together, David Bailey and Jean Shrimpton took 1960s London by storm, as his images of her beauty came to represent the city at its swingingest. But first they would wreak havoc across the ocean. John McKay reimagines the 1962 New York photo shoot for British Vogue in which the It couple, portrayed by Aneurin Barnard and Karen Gillan, were treated like royalty.
10 P.M. (Cinemax) X-MEN: FIRST CLASS (2011) This fifth installment in the franchise reaches back to the early 1960s, taking some of its cues from James Bond, Austin Powers and the cold war, as it traces the origins of these comic-book superheroes. Michael Fassbender portrays Erik Lehnsherr, and James McAvoy, left, is his best friend and future nemesis, Charles Xavier, in roles first played by Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart. Directed by Matthew Vaughn, ''the new movie is lighter in tone and look than its predecessors, and appreciably less self-serious than those directed by Bryan Singer,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. ''Perhaps unsurprisingly, it also feels less personal, though Mr. Vaughn gets satisfying performances and copious tears, along with sex appeal, from his leading men. Mr. Vaughn doesn't bring conviction to the story's identity politics (say it loud, I'm mutant and I'm proud), but he gives Mr. Fassbender and Mr. McAvoy room to bring the brotherly love.''
10:30 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN Just days after the release of her Grammy-winning second album, ''21,'' in early 2011, Adele performed for a small group of fans at the Santa Monica Bay Woman's Club in California. The playlist includes ''Rolling in the Deep'' and ''Someone Like You'' from ''21''; ''Chasing Pavements'' from her debut album, ''19''; and a cover of ''(You Make Me Feel Like) a Natural Woman.''
11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE Lindsay Lohan takes the next step in career rehabilitation with this stint as host; Jack White is the musical guest. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BAILEY/FOCUS FEATURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: CATE BLANCHETT (88%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (56%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); ELAINE CHAO (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



111 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: With Citigroup Stabilized, Parsons Decides to Retire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
5:32 p.m. Updated Richard D. Parsons, Citigroup's chairman, plans to step down from the bank's board this year, the bank announced on Friday, as the firm continues to move forward from the financial crisis. 
Mr. Parsons will be replaced as chairman by Michael E. O'Neill, another Citi board member and the former chief executive of the Bank of Hawaii. Two other directors, Alain P. Belda and Timothy C. Collins, will also decline to stand for re-election.
Mr. Parsons's departure will mark yet another break from Citi's time before the market upheaval of 2008. A 16-year veteran of the bank's board, Mr. Parsons had been expected to leave within the next few years.
His departure may add further heft to the stature of Vikram S. Pandit, Citi's chief executive. Mr. Parsons had long championed Mr. Pandit as the principal architect of the firm's turnaround.
''Under Vikram Pandit's leadership, Citi has made remarkable progress,'' Mr. Parsons said in a statement. ''In Mike O'Neill, the board will have the perfect leader to enable it to continue providing the oversight and guidance America's global bank deserves''
Mr. Parsons was named as Citi's chairman in January of 2009, after having deflected talk of assuming that role. But at a time when Citi and its competitors were nearly flattened by the ripples emanating from the collapse of Lehman Brothers, his smoothness and extensive connections across Wall Street and in Washington were seen as important to helping the firm rebuild.
By the time he joined Citi's board in 1996, Mr. Parsons had already established something of a reputation as a corporate statesman with a knack for calming chaotic situations. He first made a name for himself by turning around the struggling Dime Bank in the 1980s, and later helped quiet the raucous surrounding the newly merged AOLTime Warner.
His successor, Mr. O'Neill, is well-regarded within banking circles, having resuscitated Bank of Hawaii upon taking its reins in 2000. He joined Citi's board in 2009.
News of the Citi board changes was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal online.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael O'Neill will be chairman after Richard Parsons, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF HAWAII CORP (57%); DIME BANK (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BOH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (93%); VIKRAM PANDIT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



112 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Option to Strike Iran Not a 'Bluff,' but Cites Repercussions

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Elisabeth Bumiller and David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama, speaking days before a crucial meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, stiffened his pledge to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, even as he warned Israel of the negative consequences of a pre-emptive military strike on Iran's nuclear facilities.
Seeking to reassure a close American ally that contends it has reached a moment of reckoning with Iran, Mr. Obama rejected suggestions that the United States was willing to try to contain a nuclear-armed Iran. He declared explicitly that his administration would use force -- a ''military component,'' as he put it -- only as a last resort to prevent Tehran from acquiring a bomb.
The president also said he would try to convince Mr. Netanyahu, whom he is meeting here on Monday at a time of heightened fears of a conflict, that a premature military strike could help Iran by allowing it to portray itself as a victim of aggression. And he said such military action would only delay, not prevent, Iran's acquisition of nuclear weapons. 
Mr. Obama's remarks, in a 45-minute interview with The Atlantic magazine this week, were intended to reinforce a sense of solidarity between the United States and Israel without ceding ground on differences between their two governments over the timetable or triggers for potential military action.
''I think that the Israeli government recognizes that, as president of the United States, I don't bluff,'' Mr. Obama said in the interview with Jeffrey Goldberg, a national correspondent with The Atlantic. ''I also don't, as a matter of sound policy, go around advertising exactly what our intentions are.
''But I think both the Iranian and the Israeli governments recognize that when the United States says it is unacceptable for Iran to have a nuclear weapon, we mean what we say,'' the president said.
With nearly 14,000 people massing in Washington this weekend for a meeting of the pro-Israel lobbying group Aipac, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Mr. Obama was also trying to shape the narrative, anticipating days of speeches urging him to harden his policy. Mr. Obama is to speak to the group on Sunday.
On a critical timing issue -- whether any attack against Iran should come at the point it acquired the capability to develop a nuclear weapon rather than later, if it manufactured one -- Mr. Obama was conspicuously silent. The Israeli government argues that Iran cannot be allowed to achieve nuclear capability, saying there would not be enough time to prevent it from producing a bomb once its leaders decided to do so.
The White House rejects that view, although on Wednesday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton slightly muddied the waters by testifying in the House that the goal of the United States was to prevent Iran from having ''nuclear weapons capability.'' Administration officials said she misspoke.
Mr. Obama's remarks built on his vow in the State of the Union address that the United States would ''take no options off the table'' in preventing Iran, which says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, from acquiring a weapon. But he was more concrete in saying that those options include a ''military component,'' although after other steps, including diplomatic isolation and economic sanctions.
Administration officials have signaled that they are not open to a ''containment'' strategy toward Iran, but Mr. Obama himself had not clearly stated that view. Such a strategy, he said in the interview, would run ''completely contrary'' to his nuclear nonproliferation policies, and raise a host of dangers the United States could do little to control.
The president spoke at length about how Iran's acquisition of a weapon would set off an arms race in the Middle East, offering a robust case for why the West could not contain Iran the way it did the Soviet Union during the cold war.
There is a ''profound'' danger that an Iranian nuclear weapon could end up in the hands of a terrorist organization, Mr. Obama said. Other nations in the region would feel compelled to push for nuclear weapons to shield themselves from a nuclear Iran.
While the president noted that Israel understandably felt more vulnerable because of its geography and history, he said, ''This is something in the national security interests of the United States and in the interests of the world community.''
Israeli officials have said that they may feel compelled to strike Iran before its nuclear program becomes impregnable by sheltering a uranium-enrichment facility in a mountainside, under hundreds of feet of granite.
Mr. Netanyahu, who was in Canada on Friday before arriving in the United States, warned that the West should not fall into the ''trap'' of further negotiations with Iran. He demanded that Iran dismantle the enrichment facility, near the holy city of Qum.
The president, who made outreach to Iran a hallmark of his first year in office, said he still believed Iran's leaders could make a rational calculation, under the pressure of harsh sanctions, to give up their nuclear ambitions.
''They recognize that they are in a bad, bad place right now,'' Mr. Obama said in the interview. ''It is possible for them to make a strategic calculation that, at minimum, pushes much further to the right whatever potential breakout capacity they may have, and that may turn out to be the best decision for Israel's security.''
Pointing to Libya and South Africa, Mr. Obama noted that countries tended to relinquish nuclear weapons on their own, rather than as a consequence of military action. The United States, he said, is seeking a permanent, not a temporary, solution.
An American strike on Iran's nuclear facilities would be larger, less risky and far more likely to do significant, lasting damage than any strike by Israel -- though it might not be enough to completely destroy the vital underground enrichment facilities, according to military analysts.
The United States could open a broad, sustained attack with long-range B2 stealth bombers, F-18 fighter jets based on aircraft carriers and hundreds of cruise missiles launched from submarines in the Arabian Sea. The United States has plentiful refueling capability, and drone aircraft to assess damage to help direct further strikes.
But Mr. Obama said that any military action could deflect attention from other factors in the region that were eroding Iran's influence.
''At a time when there is not a lot of sympathy for Iran and its only real ally is on the ropes,'' the president said, referring to Syria, ''do we want a distraction in which suddenly Iran can portray itself as a victim, and deflect attention from what has to be the core issue, which is their potential pursuit of nuclear weapons?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LOBBYING (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



113 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Romney Campaign Is Trying to Recast His Wealth to Be Seen as an Asset

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and JODI KANTOR; Ashley Parker reported from Bellevue, Wash., and Jodi Kantor from New York.

 BODY:
BELLEVUE, Wash. -- Mitt Romney is best known as a private equity specialist, but he is trying to transform himself into a primary care physician for an ailing nation.
''If I were a doctor and I saw somebody who was obviously suffering from some condition, I would want to do something to help,'' Mr. Romney said, at a town hall-style meeting in Bexley, Ohio, this week. ''Well, my experience is not in medicine. My experience is in business.''
His goal, he told the crowd, is ''to use what I've learned to try and help.''
Convincing voters that he means it, however, may be Mr. Romney's greatest challenge. He has been struggling with how to handle his immense wealth ever since he announced his candidacy in June. Even his most casual remarks -- about the Cadillacs his wife owns, or how his six-figure speaking fees did not add up to much -- are pounced on by Democrats and Republicans alike, and used to portray him as millionaire titan who is out of touch with the concerns of average Americans. 
His performance among lower-income and even middle-income voters is uneven. While Mr. Romney has consistently won high-income voters in primary states so far, working-class voters have been less loyal to any candidate, and Mr. Romney and Rick Santorum sometimes split their allegiance.
But fellow Republicans say that Mr. Romney's business experience would be more of an asset if he cast it in a different light.
He cannot change his private equity wealth ''any more than he can change the color of his eyes,'' said Steve Schmidt, who managed Senator John McCain's presidential campaign in 2008. His campaign should show how his expertise could help others, Mr. Schmidt said, adding, ''He would be in a stronger position if he framed the race not through the prism of his biography but what his biography can bring to the American people.''
Mr. Romney's aides reject the notion that his inadvertent comments underscoring his wealth are gaffes, and instead argue that the news media takes a few words and blows them out of proportion. But Mr. Romney acknowledged in a news conference on Tuesday that his tone-deaf remarks have stalled his campaign.
His aides, frustrated with the narrative emerging about Mr. Romney as rich and aloof, are opening him up to the public and trying to show off his softer side. They are holding more town hall-style meetings, offering more interviews to local news outlets and trying to make the campaign itself more accessible to the traveling press corps.
Kevin Madden, a campaign adviser, said in an interview that Mr. Romney would be focusing less on himself than on voters. ''The debates or discussions about his personal success aren't relevant to the reasons he decided to run,'' Mr. Madden said. ''The campaign will be successful as long as it aligns the reason he's running, the economy, with voters' main anxiety, which is that the economy is not living up to its full potential.''
Judging from his most recent campaign appearances, Mr. Romney is beginning to follow those instructions.
In two days in the West, Mr. Romney began electrifying crowds. At a rally on Thursday in a gym in Idaho Falls, Idaho, the audience cheered so loudly that at times they drowned out Mr. Romney's remarks, responding to his lines with loud boos (for President Obama) and applause (for Mr. Romney and his policies). One woman held up a ''Mitt is Bringing Sexy Back'' sign. And at another rally on Friday in Bellevue, Wash., the line snaked around the block and filled an overflow room.
''I want to get our people working again,'' Mr. Romney said, turning his message back to the concerns of the crowd. ''I'm going to get our tax rates down, and do so to put people in America back to work.''
Despite two decades in political life and a net worth estimated at $200 million, Mr. Romney has never faced such virulent attacks on his wealth. If he made awkward comments about his privileged life during his first presidential run in 2008, few seemed to notice or remember.
But attitudes toward the super-rich have changed since the financial crisis, say politicians, strategists and sociologists. Instead of looking like a parable of innovation and ingenuity -- see the life stories of wealthy candidates like Ross Perot and Michael R. Bloomberg -- Mr. Romney's candidacy risks looking like a tale of income inequality and tax advantages for the wealthy.
The charge that Mr. Romney is part of an out-of-touch elite, made by Democrats and Republican rivals, is not necessarily fair. Fellow Mormons said he had helped countless church members through economic challenges, and he is thrifty by nature, with a lifestyle that barely rates as decadent by ''one percent'' standards.
But Mr. Romney has not been able to excise the casual references to his wealth, like his statement last week that he is friends with owners of Nascar teams.
''It's really mind boggling, because he seems so disciplined in so many ways, that some of these things would come out of his mouth,'' said Keith Appell, a Republican strategist who has worked with wealthy candidates like Steve Forbes and Rick Scott, who won the governorship of Florida in 2010.
Even some voters are beseeching Mr. Romney, as one man did at the Bexley gathering, to ''show the American people that you have a lot of heart and that you love Americans.''
Mr. Romney seized the opportunity. He offered up a meandering and heartfelt soliloquy on his wife's battle with multiple sclerosis (''We were looking forward to some pretty tough times for her''), having grandchildren (''They come running up and give me a big hug. It's so exciting!''), and counseling people as a pastor in his church (''People of different backgrounds, different nationalities and difference circumstances of life'').
Then, he moved in for the kill. ''It breaks my heart to think about families at the margin when gasoline prices go up like they are, when health care costs go up like they have, when food prices go up,'' he said.
Sure, he and his family have been lucky, and if it were not for his concern for the American people, Mr. Romney said, ''I think I would have been very comfortable just living with my successful life off with my family and my kids enjoying our little circle.''
But now, he said, ''This is a family crisis going on in America, and I think I can help.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney on Thursday drew a large and enthusiastic crowd to the Skyline High School gymnasium in Idaho Falls, Idaho. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



114 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Rooting For Santorum

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
I'm rooting for Rick Santorum to win the Republican nomination. Seriously.
You probably think that is because it would be the best possible outcome for President Obama. No doubt it would be. If Santorum were the Republican nominee for president, the independents disenchanted with Obama would come flocking back; their fear of Santorum's unyielding brand of social conservatism would far outweigh their reservations about the incumbent president. A Santorum nomination would likely lead to an epic defeat, ranking with Richard Nixon's 49-to-1 state landslide victory over George McGovern in 1972, or Ronald Reagan's 49-to-1 state whipping of Walter Mondale 12 years later.
But it's not the Democrats I'm really concerned with. It's the Republicans. For more than a decade now, moderate Republicans have been an endangered species, either losing elections or choosing to retire in the face of a hard-line challenger. The latest casualty was Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, whose dilemma -- caught all too often between her moderate beliefs and pressure from the party to vote the ''right'' way -- was described poignantly by Jonathan Weisman in The Times on Thursday. 
In the article, Weisman quoted a number of moderate Republicans lamenting the way the Republican Party is now placing a higher priority on social issues like contraception than on pocketbook issues like jobs and the economy. Christine Todd Whitman, the former Republican governor of New Jersey, noted that many Americans, disenchanted by the poisonous state of American politics, have largely opted out, and that ''only the most rabid partisans vote.'' In other words, the Republican Party has largely been captured by its most extreme flank. Santorum is their standard-bearer.
But that is also where I see a glimmer of hope. During the McGovern-Mondale era, the Democrats were exactly where the Republicans are now: the party had been taken over by its most extreme liberal faction, and it had lost touch with the core concerns of the middle class, just as the Republicans have now. When I spoke to Whitman this week about what the Republican Party needed to do to become a more inclusive, less rigidly dogmatic party, she said, ''It's going to take some kind of shock therapy.'' Those terrible losses in 1972 and, especially, in 1984 were the Democrats' shock therapy. Just eight years after Mondale's loss, Bill Clinton was elected president.
What happened in the interim? In effect, moderate Democrats wrested the party back from its most liberal wing. Moderates like Richard Gephardt and Charles Robb began meeting weekly to rethink what the party stood for. One of the people involved in those discussions was Al From, who would later go on to create the Democratic Leadership Council, which became the platform for new Democratic ideas -- and, for that matter, for Clinton's presidential run.
''We had become a party that had stopped worrying about people who were working and only focused on people who weren't working,'' From told me. ''The party didn't understand how big a concern crime was. It had stopped talking about opportunity and growth.''
By the end of the decade, the Democratic Party, embodied by Clinton, was embracing what From would later describe in a speech as the modernization of liberalism: ''Progressive policies that create opportunity for all, not just an entitled few; mainstream values like work, family, responsibility, and community; and practical, nonbureaucratic solutions to governing.'' This retooled, more inclusive philosophy was successful enough that Clinton became the first Democratic president to win re-election since Franklin Roosevelt.
A party's base cannot, by itself, swing a presidential election. A party has to have broader appeal. ''In 2008,'' said Whitman, ''John McCain got two million more self-identified social conservatives than George Bush in 2004, yet he was soundly defeated. Constantly looking for ways to drum people out of the party is not a long-term, successful strategy.''
One person who was drummed out is Lincoln Chafee, the governor of Rhode Island, a Republican turned independent. ''I care about deficits,'' he told me, ''but, on social issues, I believe that people should have the right to make their own decisions.'' As a result, he said, ''I realized that there wasn't any room in the Republican Party for me.''
When I asked him what it would take to change the Republican Party, he had a quick answer: ''What it usually takes is a good drubbing at election time.''
If Mitt Romney takes the nomination and then loses to Obama, the extremists who've taken over the party will surely say the problem was Romney's lack of ideological purity. If, however, Santorum is the nominee -- and then loses in a landslide -- the party will no longer be able to delude itself about where its ideological rigidity has taken it.
An alcoholic doesn't stop drinking until he hits bottom. The Republican Party won't change until it hits bottom. Only Santorum offers that possibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012



115 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Things to Fear and Loathe

BYLINE: PATRICIA PEARSON


HIGHLIGHT: Some phobias are explainable. But how can teddy bears, honeycombs or peas possess the power to terrify? 

 BODY:
A friend recently told me about a new app for the treatment of phobias. You stare at pictures of dental drills, snakes or airplane interiors, depending on your affliction, and these totems of menace - interspersed with reassuring images of teddy bears - gradually cease to provoke you.
Does it work? We can't know. My friend has a phobia of stuffed animals. It's something, he says, about the soulless glass eyes. We were talking on the phone, but I could picture him shuddering.
I, meanwhile, feel fine about snakes, jets and needles, but am haunted by heights and clusters. I haven't seen apps for those, at least not yet.
Of all the manifestations of anxiety, specific phobias are by far the most idiosyncratic. About 6 percent of Americans have an acute fear of animals like rats and birds. But after that, the sources of terror are myriad.

Why objects bunched tightly together should send me into states of high alarm, I cannot say. My daughter once festooned a sock puppet with googly eyes from the craft store, and when I encountered it in the house, I reared like a spooked horse. Being a conscientious mother, I managed to conceal my sense of horror, but she has since witnessed my reaction to stands of mushrooms in the woods, and to dandelion buds in the grass.
There is something - some hint of unchecked growth, of aggressive profusion - that I spy in certain geometric arrangements. Could it pertain to disgust, a burgeoning field of research? Might the underlying fear be one of chaos, or of the rapidly multiplying cells in cancer?
Perhaps. On the other hand, maybe not. One attempts to find logical causes for phobia at one's peril.
There is no accounting, for example, for my friend Patrice's abiding terror of mascots. Although she cannot swim, she once ran into the ocean fully clothed and shrieking when a man in a gorilla suit attempted to hand her a flier. On another occasion, she switched hotels in Orlando, Fla., to minimize her risk of encountering Mickey Mouse.
One could speculate about Mascot Zero, some clown or chicken who traumatized Patrice in childhood. But it might be entirely untraceable to any sort of triggering event. According to the psychologist Stphane Bouchard, who studies phobia at the University of Quebec, about a third of phobias are indeed set off by direct exposure to frightening encounters, such as a dog bite. Roughly another third are culturally suggested: a classic example being the increase in shark and water phobias after the movie "Jaws." With that final third, Mr. Bouchard told me, shrugging, "we just have no clue." 
Let me zero in on that final third.
"I have a fear of honeycomb shapes," a woman once wrote to me when I solicited examples of phobias for my research. "I can't look at something like a beehive. The other day, I saw a box of honeycomb-shaped pasta at the grocery store and it really creeped me out."
Another person wrote: "I am terrified of string. You know, when you have a loose string hanging off your clothes. Most people just shrug it off." (Who knew?) "But I go insane until I get it off the item."
Balloons, pigeons, boats, bald men, cotton batten, garden peas. These have all acted as the culprits, according to reports I've received, in making otherwise reasonable human beings assume the visage of Edvard Munch's screamer. People fear chins, condiments, towels, cut fruit.
The object appears to be irrelevant, in many cases, beyond its subconscious assignation as the Very Thing to Fear.
Oddly, this act of transmuting anxiety into fear does possess a kind of logic. Anxiety has been described as fear in search of a cause, and there's little question that fear is more actionable. Instead of being paralyzed by a sense of directionless menace, as would be the case with a generalized anxiety disorder where danger is everywhere and nowhere, the phobic can pour all dread into one vessel, and then swiftly run away.
In other words, phobia can be a form of compartmentalization.
Aaron Beck, a great thinker about cognitive distortions who founded the Center for Cognitive Therapy at the University of Pennsylvania, has pointed out multiple levels of displacement in phobias. A fear of flying, for instance, can relate to acrophobia (fear of heights), or to claustrophobia, or it can be a stand-in for a much more threatening prospect that dare not be confronted at any cost, such as the death of a parent. You're avoiding grief, and the next thing you know you would rather be trapped in an elevator with bees than board an airplane. The airplane is departing for another world but no, that's too obvious.
We are not simple creatures, we human beings, and we know it; yet we still insist on imposing simple explanations upon our emotional conduct. "They're just freaking dandelions, Mom," my son tells me. It's just a garter snake. They're merely peas. How in the world can you be so idiotically afraid of clowns?
There are wider implications here for our civic and political discourse. Certain people may be neurologically prone to anxiety, true, but fear is also circumstantial. The current economic climate is extremely anxiety-provoking, and research has shown that people can tolerate uncertainty for only so long. At some point, the neurotically wired begin to prefer negative certitudes - or compartmentalized threats - to ambiguity.
If we cannot tolerate uncertainty, then it might be reasonable to expect an increase in phobic behaviors: xenophobia, Islamophobia, Obamafear, a terror of newts. These aren't stances that can be dealt with by counterargument. They can be quelled only by exposure, by a reminder that the threat is symbolic, a stand-in. Let's invite the enemy we fear to dine, then, and rescue ourselves from irrational conflict.
. 

        
An Appointment With Dread
        
Searching the Brain for the Roots of Fear
        
The Wages of Eco-Angst
        
Reliving the Crash
        
A Song of Woe, Gone Viral (Bonus Comic Strip)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOBIAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CANCER (78%); BITES & STINGS (78%); RODENTS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%) Anxiety; fear; mental health; Phobias; Anxiety and Stress; Fear (Emotion); Mental Health and Disorders

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



116 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Into the Fray

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
With Sandra Fluke, a Georgetown University law student, and the conservative talker Rush Limbaugh taking center stage, the politically charged conflict over President Obama's birth control policy has escalated, pulling much of official Washington into the fray, including Mr. Obama, who called Ms. Fluke on Friday. Jonathan Weisman writes that Democrats may have found a living symbol for what they have dubbed a Republican "war on women"In Ms. Fluke and the scorn she has drawn from conservative commentators for publicly backing Mr. Obama's regulations on contraceptive coverage. 

        
Mitt Romney has been struggling with how to handle his immense wealth ever since he announced his candidacy, failing to gain consistent support from lower-income and even middle-class voters, Ashley Parker and Jodi Kantor write. His aides, frustrated with the narrative of Mr. Romney as an aloof rich guy, are now opening him up to the public, and trying to show off his softer side by focusing less on himself and more on voters.

        
The money spent on advertising by "super PACs" in the Republican primaries continues to outpace what candidates themselves are willing to spend, Jeremy W. Peters reports. Super PACs have played the role of the attack machine in what has become an overwhelmingly negative contest in the Republican primaries. 
Weekly Address

        
President Obama used his weekly address to congratulate workers of the rebounding auto industry, and to remind voters that if it weren't for the bailout provided by his administration, "more than one million Americans would have lost their jobs in the middle of the worst recession since the Great Depression," he said. "So in exchange for our help, we demanded responsibility." The White House is expecting cars with new fuel efficiency standards to turn weekly fill ups at the gas station into biweekly fill ups, estimating that motorists will be able to save an eventual $8,000 at the pump. "But it won't solve everything," he said. "We've got to develop new technology that will help us use new forms of energy." He touted figures that show a reduction in America's dependence on foreign oil, and told viewers that the next step in taking control of the nation's energy future would be ending a $4 billion subsidy to the oil industry.
Around the Web

        
Newt Gingrich has urged that President Obama fire Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, Politico reports. This comes one day after Mr. Gingrich announced his desire for Energy Secretary Steven Chu to lose his job as well.
Happenings in Washington

        
President Obama, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, and a variety of other top Washington officials will speak at the annual A.I.P.A.C. Policy Conference that kicks off on Saturday.

        
The Early Word: Competing Interests
        
The Early Word: Comebacks
        
The Early Word: Unsettled
        
The Early Word: Obstacle Course
        
The Early Word: Opt Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONTRACEPTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (68%); GAS STATIONS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); KEN SALAZAR (57%); LEON E PANETTA (57%); STEVEN CHU (57%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



117 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: A Project That Bridged More Than Accents

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
WHEN Kevin Spacey's vanquished Richard III is hoisted high above the stage of the Harvey Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Sunday, the ambitious British-American exercise in cross-pond cross-pollination called the Bridge Project will officially come to an end.
I suspect most in the audience will not be aware of the valedictory significance of the occasion. Mr. Spacey's performance -- or rather the star power that drew attention to it -- has surely been the primary allure of ''Richard III,'' which was the biggest hit of the five shows that the Bridge Project has presented at the Brooklyn Academy in its three seasons of productions, beginning in 2009.
Will the project's ending be mourned? Possibly by avid theatergoers who search out high-toned, prestige theater production, whether presented on Broadway or in Brooklyn. But while its aspirations were exemplary, the Bridge Project's appearances were sporadic enough that its absence is hardly likely to leave a gaping hole in anyone's cultural calendar. 
The enterprise was announced as a limited venture among the Brooklyn theater, the director Sam Mendes's Neal Street Productions, and the Old Vic, under the artistic directorship of Mr. Spacey. Three seasons in London and in New York were projected, as well as international touring. Notwithstanding Mr. Spacey's description of the venture as an attempt to ''to create a stronger bridge between the culture in London and in New York on a more permanent basis,'' it was only semi-permanent. The mixed British and American casts were intended to do an end run around the rules established by Actors' Equity that can make it difficult for British actors who are not stars to perform in America and to allow talented American classical actors to ply their wares on international stages.
The company achieved its goal of bringing together ensembles of British and American actors for significant runs of classic plays -- four of the five were Shakespeare, with Chekhov's ''Cherry Orchard'' being the fifth -- but a few speed bumps along the way suggested how very daunting the task would prove to be.
The initial season was postponed when Stephen Dillane, scheduled to play Hamlet and Prospero, had to withdraw because of a family emergency. An enterprise of this scale needed star power, and all three seasons featured name-brand actors in leading roles: Simon Russell Beale played Leontes in ''The Winter's Tale'' and Lopakhin in ''The Cherry Orchard,'' both in 2009. Mr. Dillane, a Tony winner for Tom Stoppard's ''Real Thing,'' duly appeared as Prospero in ''The Tempest'' in the second season in 2010, and as Jaques in ''As You Like It.'' And of course Mr. Spacey was the humpbacked Richard this year.
Another speed bump: The plan to present two large-scale productions in repertory -- one of the stated aims -- was quietly shelved for the final season. In contrast to the previous Bridge Project seasons ''Richard III'' was the only show in town this time around. Numbers no doubt had something to do with it. The company's first season, which was financed just before the big economic crash, cost more than $6 million to produce. Logistics too: ''Richard III'' had a more extensive international tour than the previous shows, thanks no doubt to Mr. Spacey's fame.
If I were to grade the Bridge Project's achievement in terms of aesthetics, I'd give it a solid B. (With an asterisk: I missed ''The Winter's Tale.'') Mr. Mendes, who directed all five productions, and Mr. Spacey deserve much credit for bringing respectable and handsomely mounted classical theater productions not just to New York and London, but also to such far-flung places as the ancient theater of Epidaurus in Greece, Istanbul and Singapore.
But not one of the productions was fully distinguished. During the years spanned by the Bridge Project I was more excited by home-grown Shakespeare: the ''Othello'' from Theater for a New Audience as well as the Public Theater's scintillating ''Twelfth Night'' and ''The Merchant of Venice.'' Meanwhile last fall's Classic Stage Company production of ''The Cherry Orchard'' was far more engaging than the Bridge Project's lackluster version.
How did the project fare in terms of some of its other goals? One minor aim was to dispel the notion that British and American approaches to classical acting are somehow discordant or at odds. Certainly the ensemble casts in the shows I saw showed no jagged fault lines in technique. Americans are now accustomed to Shakespeare in accents both British and American, and the ear adjusts quickly.
Would I have liked to see a few more Americans in prominent parts? Certainly. Generally speaking it seemed to me that the Americans involved played less substantial roles than the British actors did, excepting of course Mr. Spacey's star turn.
That's nothing new. New York theatergoers have also become accustomed to seeing mixed American and British casts on Broadway, but the stars center stage are usually British, while the Americans are the supporting players: think of ''Mary Stuart'' with Janet McTeer and Harriet Walter, with an excellent cast of Americans playing their courtiers, or ''Boeing-Boeing,'' with Mark Rylance presiding over a supporting cast that included Christine Baranski and Gina Gershon.
In discussing the goals for the Bridge Project, Mr. Spacey cited the difficulty involved in importing productions like these, mentioning the extra time and money necessitated to recast roles in ''The Iceman Cometh'' when that production transferred to Broadway from London. Fair enough, but if Actors' Equity were to relax its rules, I expect there would be a lot more traffic coming in to Kennedy Airport from Heathrow than the other way around.
The National Theater in recent years has led the way in bringing Americans to London, importing the original casts of both ''August: Osage County'' and ''Fela!'' for significant runs. But there remains a trade imbalance between the two cities when it comes to theater: Broadway imports more from London than the West End imports from New York.
The Bridge Project, of course, was not meant to redress that imbalance, but to make it easier for American and British actors to work together on classic plays. For a limited time, under very specific circumstances. That the endeavor has not been extraordinary enough to warrant continuation only points up the difficulties involved in creating truly international collaborations of this kind.
It took two major theater luminaries four years to achieve the seemingly modest goal of mounting five classical productions with mixed American and British casts. It doesn't sound so very challenging, does it? But then most of us don't really think much about the engineering and labor involved in its construction when we drive across the Brooklyn Bridge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, from left: Kevin Spacey and Annabel Scholey in ''Richard III''
Christian Camargo and Juliet Rylance in ''As You Like It''
 and Mr. Camargo, left, and Stephen Dillane in ''The Tempest.'' All of the productions were staged at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



118 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Take the Subway

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
OUR plan was to meet for lunch at noon in Moscow. It was to be just myself and Fyodor Lukyanov, the editor of the journal Russia in Global Affairs. He picked the restaurant. It had been snowing that day, and the Moscow traffic -- already nearly impossible because the city, which 15 years ago had 300,000 cars and today hosts nearly four million registered vehicles -- was even more impossible than usual. Soon the e-mailing between us started. I was first: ''I'm running a few minutes late.'' Lukyanov said the same a few minutes later. Then me again: ''I am going to be 20 minutes late.'' He then saw my 20 minutes and raised me 20. In the end, I was 50 minutes late, and I beat him by two minutes. We sped through an interview about Russian foreign policy in 30 minutes, before I rushed out so as not to be late for my next appointment. As we hurriedly put on our coats, Lukyanov had one piece of advice for me, and it wasn't that the U.S. should stay out of Syria.
It was: ''Take the subway.'' 
True, Moscow's gridlock was not as bad as the August 2010 traffic jam on the main north-south highway from Beijing to Inner Mongolia. Said to be the longest in the history of the planet, that baby stretched 60 miles, moved at a speed of 2 miles per day, took 10 days to unsnarl and spawned its own local economy of noodle sellers.
But this is not a column about traffic -- per se.
This is a column about energy and environment and why we must not let the poisonous debate about climate change so tie us in knots that we cannot have any energy policy at all, particularly one focused on developing much more efficient use of resources, through better designs and systems. If you are so reckless as to dismiss all climate science as a hoax, and do not accept the data that our planet is getting hotter and the oceans rising, I can't help you. That's between you and your beach house -- and your kids, whose future you're imperiling.
But you better believe this: The planet is getting flatter and more crowded. There will be two billion more people here by 2050, and they will all want to live and drive just like us. And when they do, there is going to be one monster traffic jam and pollution cloud, unless we learn how to get more mobility, lighting, heating and cooling from less energy and with less waste -- with so many more people. We can't let the climate wars continue to derail efforts to have an energy policy that puts in place rising efficiency standards, for buildings, windows, traffic, housing, packaging and appliances, that will drive innovation -- which is our strength -- in what has to be the next great global industry: energy and resource efficiency.
This is the theme of two recent, smart books. The first is called ''The Sixth Wave: How to Succeed in a Resource Limited World,'' by James Bradfield Moody and Bianca Nogrady. Moody, who works at Australia's national research agency, and Nogrady, a science journalist, argue that, since the industrial revolution, we've seen five long waves of innovation -- from water power to steam to electrification to mass production and right up to information and communications technologies. They argue the sixth wave will be resource efficiency -- because rising populations, with growing appetites, will lead to both increasing scarcity of resources and dangerously high pollution, waste and climate change.
This will force us to decouple consumption from economic growth. In the past, says Moody, ''the more we consumed, the more we grew.'' And, therefore, there was a tension between green and gold. But that cannot last, says Moody. When you have a global market, with a burgeoning population, that faces rising scarcity of resources and still so much waste in how we make and consume things ''there is a great market opportunity for innovation.''
''We are going to go from green versus gold to green equals gold,'' says Moody. Because the only way to grow without consuming more resources is through systemic breakthroughs in efficiency -- developing new business models to deliver mobility, heating, cooling and lighting with dramatically fewer resources and pollution.
Here is a simple example that the energy expert Hal Harvey uses: ''Consider a standard incandescent light bulb, powered by a coal-fired power plant. If the coal plant is 33 percent efficient (the average in the U.S.), and the light bulb is 3 percent efficient, then the net conversion of energy to light is just 1 percent. That is pathetic -- and typical. An L.E.D. light, powered by an efficient natural gas turbine, converts 20 percent of the total energy to light-- a 20-fold increase.'' Run it on renewables and it's carbon-free to boot.
This is where Amory Lovins, the physicist who is chairman of the Rocky Mountain Institute, begins in his new book, ''Reinventing Fire: Bold Business Solutions for the New Energy Era,'' which is summarized in the current Foreign Affairs. The Rocky Mountain Institute and its business collaborators show how private enterprise -- motivated by profit, supported by smart policy -- can lead America off both oil and coal by 2050, saving $5 trillion, through innovation emphasizing design and strategy.
''You don't have to believe in climate change to solve it,'' says Lovins. ''Everything we do to raise energy efficiency will make money, improve security and health, and stabilize climate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wildfires in August 2010 left Red Square in Moscow blanketed in smog. As the world gets flatter and more crowded, pollution is only going to get worse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) EARTH (79%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (54%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); CHINA (54%)

TITLE: Sixth Wave: How to Succeed in a Resource Limited World, The (Book); Reinventing Fire: Bold Business Solutions for the New Energy Era (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



119 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Born of 1,000 Influences, An Original Look at Love

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
IN the course of a two-hour conversation about her movie ''Attenberg'' the Greek filmmaker Athina Rachel Tsangari invoked a practically encyclopedic range of genre inspirations: buddy movie, screwball comedy, Greek tragedy, western, musical, science fiction and -- not least of all -- nature documentary. (The title is a mispronunciation of Attenborough, as in David, the living legend of science and natural history television.)
''When you make a movie in the 21st century, half of the movie is about life and half is about cinema,'' Ms. Tsangari said over a leisurely breakfast in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, while in town for a screening of her film a few months ago. ''Why be apologetic about stealing, borrowing, referencing, outright copying?'' 
Despite Ms. Tsangari's willingness to embrace her influences, it is clear from her film's startling opening scene -- two young women leaning into each other against a white wall, one teaching the other to French kiss, their tongues awkwardly entwined -- that ''Attenberg'' is in no way a straightforward approximation of any of the genres she had mentioned. The film, which opens at the IFC Center in Manhattan on Friday, deals with subjects as large and timeless as they come -- sex and death -- but through the highly particular case of a late-blooming 23-year-old named Marina (Ariane Labed, who won the best actress prize at the Venice Film Festival in 2010 for the role).
Not just sexually inexperienced but also repelled by human contact, Marina is devoted to her terminally ill architect father, Spiros (Vangelis Mourikis), and engaged in a moody push-pull with her only friend, the promiscuous Bella (Evangelia Randou). Withdrawn as she is, Marina can also be physically expressive, with a feral side. She and Spiros have a ritual of imitating the animals in Attenborough documentaries, and the action is punctuated by choreographed sequences of her and Bella marching, skipping and strutting: a Greek chorus by way of silly Monty Python walks.
More than the film's namesake, Mr. Attenborough is a kind of presiding spirit: his anthropological curiosity, both tender and detached, is akin to how Ms. Tsangari regards her characters. ''His voice-overs are pure poetry but delivered in such a scientific, calm, unsentimental manner,'' Ms. Tsangari said.
The deadpan stylization of ''Attenberg'' is a distancing device, or, more precisely, a sidelong path toward real, earned feeling. ''The Greek cinema tradition is very melodramatic, so there is this fear always of not doing that,'' Ms. Tsangari said. ''It's a huge effort on my part to move into emotion.''
At the heart of the film is ''a love story between a father and a daughter, but told more like a buddy movie,'' she said. ''They've developed a code of humor and a code of compassion.''
''Attenberg,'' Ms. Tsangari's second feature, is not strictly autobiographical, but it has personal resonances. ''In making it I figured out so many things that I wanted to say to my dad,'' she said, declining to elaborate further. It was a rare guarded moment for Ms. Tsangari, a disarmingly forthright conversationalist with a ready laugh and a habit of redirecting questions at her interviewer.
The film is also a portrait of a place she knew well: Aspra Spitia (Greek for ''white houses''), a coastal settlement established by an aluminum mining company in the 1960s and designed as an urbanist utopia. Ms. Tsangari lived there as a child for a few years, and this industrial ghost town, eerily uniform and now underpopulated, provides a vivid, vaguely science fiction setting.
The specter of Greece's economic and political failures looms over ''Attenberg,'' not least in the figure of the dying Spiros, who remarks on his country's painful transition from an agrarian economy to full-blown capitalism. ''Spiros represents the sadness of a generation that actually had a vision for Greece,'' Ms. Tsangari said. ''It failed, and we see it every day.''
Ms. Tsangari has been actively involved in Greek cinema's recent renaissance, an incongruous development at a time of overwhelmingly unhappy headlines in her country. She produced the acclaimed films of Yorgos Lanthimos (including the Oscar-nominated ''Dogtooth'' and the forthcoming ''Alps''), and Mr. Lanthimos returned the favor on ''Attenberg,'' in which he also plays the crucial part of an engineer who, through a game of foosball and a shared love of the art-rockers Suicide, coaxes Marina out of her shell.
Some critics, noting Ms. Tsangari's and Mr. Lanthimos's taste for absurdism and interest in stylized meta-performance, have installed them at the forefront of a Greek new wave. Ms. Tsangari said that while she and Mr. Lanthimos had ''unconditional support for each other,'' the similarities in their films were superficial. ''A movement requires duration and quantity,'' she said. ''Greece hasn't had the kind of film culture to cultivate a movement.''
In an e-mail Mr. Lanthimos said their collaboration emerged because ''we realized that there was no other way making films in Greece, other than filmmakers helping each other.''
Just before ''Attenberg'' went into production the financing pledged by the Greek Film Center evaporated. Ms. Tsangari forged ahead and sought the help of Christos Konstantakopoulos, an investor. Mr. Konstantakopoulos, who is also backing the next two films by Terrence Malick, said that the disappearance of state funding had inadvertently helped Greek cinema. He compared the situation to the agronomic concept known as ''stressing'': ''By depriving the crops of water you force their roots to grow deeper,'' he said.
It is perhaps to be expected that Ms. Tsangari, who has lived a nomadic, somewhat borderless existence since her late teens -- she studied in the United States and lived in Amsterdam before returning to Athens -- would object to the notion of a national cinema. Her biography is writ large in her work, which reflects the wide-open curiosity and eclectic interests that have led her to endeavors as diverse as being the curator of a film festival in Austin, Tex., and overseeing the film and video projections for the ceremonies of the 2004 Athens Olympics.
A childhood fascination with Samuel Beckett -- at 9 she saw him walking his dog on a Paris street -- led to a teenage interest in avant-garde drama, which compelled her to pursue a degree in performance studies at New York University in the early '90s. Her academic field, considering the performative aspects of everyday life, and her early exposure to the experimental New York troupes the Wooster Group and Mabou Mines inform her way of working with actors to this day. ''We never talk about character,'' she said. ''The rehearsals are purely technical, about the intonation of words and the position of the body.''
Her cinephilia came alive in Austin, her first stop in the United States as a Fulbright scholar, en route to New York, and where she returned as a graduate film student at the University of Texas. Her first time there she met and befriended Richard Linklater on the street while he was shooting his 1991 landmark movie ''Slacker.'' (She has a cameo in the movie as a ''cousin from Greece.'') With her fellow student Bryan Poyser (director of the 2010 indie ''Lovers of Hate'') she started a film festival in the mid-'90s called Cinematexas, focusing on experimental and short films.
Ms. Tsangari's thesis film, ''The Slow Business of Going,'' became her first feature. (It traveled the festival circuit in 2001.) A cross between Beckett and William Gibson, it follows its globetrotting heroine through a series of anonymous hotel rooms around the world, a rocking chair strapped to her back.
Although she lives in Athens for now, Ms. Tsangari is planning two English-language features. This fall she will shoot a film in Austin that she wrote with Mr. Poyser. Her next project, written with her regular editor, Matt Johnson, and titled ''Duncharon,'' won a top prize for works in progress at the Rotterdam International Film Festival's financing market in January. An apparent allegory about the woes of Europe, the film follows a crew of low-level astronauts stranded on the wrong planet. Ms. Tsangari, no surprise, describes it as a one-of-a-kind genre hybrid. ''It's a science-fiction screwball tragedy,'' she said, ''like Euripides meets Howard Hawks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ariane Labed, right, and Evangelia Randou in ''Attenberg.'' The movie is the second feature directed by the Greek filmmaker Athina Rachel Tsangari, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DESPINA SPYROU/HAOS FILM AND STRAND RELEASING
 DESPINA SPYROU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); POETRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

TITLE: Attenberg (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



120 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; APP CITY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Contest Whose Winners May Not Succeed

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
New York's BigApps contest, now in Version 3.0, has won no small amount of praise. Using data supplied by public agencies, Web developers compete for $50,000 in prizes, awarded based on voting by the public and a panel of judges. Voting on this year's entries ends on Thursday.
Carole Post, the commissioner of the city's Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications, said the contest had exceeded expectations in terms of ''size, scale, stature and outcomes.'' Other cities have copied the idea, and many good-government groups and techies -- there are a lot of those these days -- seem to take the idea of an apps contest as sacrosanct. But for all the enthusiasm, how good are the apps, and what has the city gotten from them? 
I sorted this year's entries by how many votes they had received, and found that of the top 10 vote-getters, two were iPhone apps that had not been built -- though each had received well over 1,000 votes -- and that some other projects were either still in the conceptual stage or completely nonfunctional.
Many of the BigApps developers have created services that rate local places or plan itineraries and then let you tell your friends about them. Among this year's variations on that theme is the awkwardly named navyorKonnect, a top vote-getter. But the app world is already overflowing with this kind of project, and I did not see anything that would serve me better than some combination of Yelp, Google Maps and Facebook. Many other ideas were carbon copies of entries from previous years. (I mean you, ParkAlly and ParkIt.)
That is not to say there are not some good ideas out there, even if many of them are in the early stages. One of them, 596 Acres, is a Web site that maps vacant, city-owned land in Brooklyn. For each plot it gives information about how to contact whomever controls it. The entry for each lot can also become a message board, so that people can team up to make plans for the spaces.
Sage is a simple but effective mobile site allowing people to search for information about pre-K and elementary schools near their homes.
On #BKME, people post photographs of cars parked in bike lanes; the results are then plotted on a map that also shows where tickets for bike lane violations are being issued.
Safe Eats is an iPhone app showing restaurants nearby, marking each with an icon showing its health department rating and giving details about its violations. (The New York Times recently posted a similar project on its Web site.) Safe Eats crashes periodically. There is also some lag time for new ratings to show up. But if I were the type of person who wanted to read whether vermin were in the kitchen of my favorite restaurant, I'd keep it on my phone.
The people who run BigApps say that these kinds of ideas show the value of the contest. Developers who prove that they have a good idea will be rewarded with the resources and publicity needed to perfect it.
But winning the contest has not necessarily led to success. The grand-prize winner last year was Roadify, an app that let people swap information about how trains were running. It was a clever idea that would succeed only if many people used it. A year later, it seems to have attracted almost no users. Sportaneous, a pickup-sports app that won second place and the Popular Choice Award, is no longer available in Apple's App Store. It is back in testing.
Inevitably, most of these projects will fail. Start-ups usually do. And considering the modest price of the program -- BigApps costs the city about $100,000 a year, according to the city's Economic Development Corporation -- the bar for success should be set low. But it seems that a better investment might be to spend more time working with a few developers on specific ideas, rather than continually soliciting new ones.
A more important measure of success is whether BigApps has led to greater transparency by giving the city an incentive to share data.
When it was conceived, the contest seemed to take the steam out of other so-called open-data initiatives, said Amanda Hickman, who teaches journalism at Columbia University and is organizing a panel about government transparency there on Tuesday. Considering the non-civic nature of many of the BigApps entries, Ms. Hickman said, cynicism has grown. ''People willing to look at the BigApps competition as a tip of a really interesting iceberg have started to get really antsy,'' she said.
Open-data advocates say that without legal prompting, agencies have been reluctant to release many of the data sets they are interested in. But last week, the City Council suddenly took up and passed a long-pending bill to require agencies to release more information to developers. That was received as positive news by many advocates of government transparency, although city agencies have until 2018 to comply.
Moreover, since the law has no enforcement mechanism, interest from the public is essentially the only thing that will force reluctant agencies to comply.
But if BigApps' backers and its skeptics agree on one thing, it is that the contest has proved that people are interested in getting more data from the city.
Have a favorite New York City app? Send tips via e-mail to appcity@nytimes.com or via Twitter to @joshuabrustein.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); WEB SITES (67%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



121 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 100

LENGTH: 2032 words

HEADLINE: The Tao of Hoffman

BYLINE: By GILES FODEN

 BODY:
''And just how long have we got the magic?''
It's fall in Britain. Above a manor house in Buckinghamshire, the skies are ashen. In the surrounding woods, leaves rustle with a suggestion of coming night and winter's arrival. The words are the fairly typical remarks of a film director to his cinematographer. The magic is that last hour of light, before it becomes impossible to continue filming. Magic hour, golden hour, this is the time.
What's not typical is that the speaker is Dustin Hoffman, directing his first feature film at 74, unless you count an abortive crack at ''Straight Time'' (1978). That film he handed over to someone else, while continuing to play the lead, a career criminal newly released from jail.
Dressed in a gray hoodie, black jeans and sneakers, bouncing from foot to foot in the cold, Hoffman is overseeing a scene from ''Quartet.'' Adapted from Ronald Harwood's play, it's a joyful movie about old age. The plans of four once-famous opera singers to put on a concert at their retirement home go wrong as buried grudges come to the surface. 
A vast crane looms over the gravel drive. This shot's all about the taillights of a car, successively obscured and then revealed by the twists of the road. Despite its bankable theme of growing old with hope, the temptation to think that this is a swan song for the star of ''The Graduate,'' ''Rain Man'' and ''Tootsie'' is irresistible.
They have to reshoot. ''Do you think he'll get this?'' I ask the producer Finola Dwyer as we stand watching, clutching polystyrene cups of coffee. She smiles. ''Filmmaking's all about timing'' she says. ''That's one of the risk factors, and sometimes you can't control it. Sometimes it's just luck.''
The remark is germane, because at the same time as directing ''Quartet,'' Hoffman is playing the lead in HBO's new drama series ''Luck.'' Created by the TV veteran David Milch (''NYPD Blue,'' ''Deadwood''), it is immersed in the world of horse racing and gambling. It couldn't be more different from ''Quartet.'' Hoffman again plays a newly released criminal: Chester ''Ace'' Bernstein, a man in his late 60s and an intelligent autodidact. ''The problem is,'' Hoffman tells me a few weeks after the set visit, ''and it's the opportunity as well as the problem, we don't know how bad Ace is. We don't know whether he has ever killed anyone. I don't know the answer.''
We've met at the Athenaeum, a club on London's Pall Mall, for lunch. (Hoffman has steak and chips.) As we climb to the smoking room after eating -- he's in gray again, but this time it's a crisp light charcoal suit and a thin black tie -- he continues talking about Ace Bernstein. ''It's made me think there's no such thing as character. So I began with very simple things. I did different things with my hair. I got out of the shower and pushed my hair straight back and thought, Well, there's a part of him. And then you let stuff come in. Of course, part of it's learning the lines, and these are very specific, Milchian lines.''
Milch, speaking by telephone from his office in Santa Monica, Calif., will later concur with the open-ended notion of character that Hoffman is responding to. ''Dustin gives a true sense of Ace's inwardness just by his presence,'' he said. ''Dramatic character is an idea of something beyond the words, or somehow mysteriously behind the words, that you can't get in the absence of a wonderful performance. And he really does give us that.''
We have carried up a quarter decanter of red wine left over from lunch. Hoffman takes a sip. ''There is so much preconception,'' he says. ''So the less you do, the more you allow the audience to infer. There are a few givens. Once you get them down, the performance self-organizes. And the scary thing but also the best thing, if you succeed -- and here's the connection between gambling and art, I guess -- is the risk of failure.''
Failure, accident, not knowing and, yes, luck: these are the themes that come up again and again. Born in Los Angeles in 1937, the son of a struggling furniture salesman, Hoffman attended Santa Monica City College for a year before dropping out. After acting school and a long apprenticeship, Hoffman became famous overnight at 30 after what he describes as the freak chance to play the 21-year-old Benjamin Braddock in ''The Graduate'' (1967).
''It was the switch that turned me from off to on,'' he says. ''Before that part, I had been a mainly unemployed actor for over 10 years. Basically a failure, from anyone's accounting of it. Yet I knew what I was about.'' (There's a nice moment in the pilot of ''Luck'' when the bellhop at the Beverly Wilshire says to Bernstein, returning from prison, ''I just graduated,'' and Hoffman's character replies: ''Good for you kid, so did I.'')
''I do believe in luck myself,'' he says, ''but also in fate -- it's a duality. They had been working on 'The Graduate' for two years or something. They had a script and were casting, and I was at the end of the list. They had been through the Redfords and all those people. So in a sense, it has all been an accident.''
Hoffman says that when he moved to New York in 1958, casting directors were looking for blond hair and blue eyes. ''And I was just this . . . mutt! Before 'The Graduate,' I felt that I would be fighting my whole life. I got fired a lot.''
For a decade he lived hand to mouth. After filming ''The Graduate,'' Hoffman had $3,000 left in the bank and went on unemployment. He chose not to work in film for over a year, despite countless offers, until ''Midnight Cowboy'' (1969), in which he played the grotesque lowlife Ratso Rizzo, a role that earned him $150,000. He is said to have made $20 million from his percentage in ''Tootsie.'' He describes Hollywood as ''a moneymaking machine,'' but he distances himself from his industry's crazed environs and all its glitzy trappings: ''I don't hang out; it makes me uncomfortable.''
Now that he is a director himself, he smiles wryly at the memory of his past clashes with directors and producers. (Sydney Pollack, after ''Tootsie,'' said he would only work with Hoffman again ''after a long rest.'' David Puttnam, the producer and former head of Columbia Pictures, referred to Hoffman as a ''worrisome American pest.'') Were it not for the colorfulness of his speech -- Hoffman is not shy to swear -- it would be hard to equate this amiable man with tales of rage and intransigence. ''You look back on yourself and you wonder, Why was I that way?'' he says, shaking his head ruefully.
One thing anyone who's worked with Hoffman, then or now, would probably agree on is his single-mindedness of purpose. As Michael Mann, an executive producer of ''Luck,'' puts it, ''He focuses with great specificity. Dustin as Ace has power in stillness, strength even in immobility. It's as if he holds a source of energy within him.''
Sitting under high bookshelves stacked with classics, Hoffman offers his own explanation: ''It's not intellectual. You're mostly aware of what you don't like. Henry Moore said something like that. You keep chipping away at what isn't an elephant. And Miles Davis said: 'Don't play what's there, play what's not there' -- I've put it on my wall. We think the conscious is the determining factor, and actually it's the least reliable instrument. The knowing is the infringement. You find what is exposed.''
Hoffman is genuinely likable. His candor, his ability to expose himself even in a conversation with a journalist, seems authentic. But as with all great actors, there remains the feeling that everything, even his uncompromising dedication to the forbidden territory of the unconscious, is a performance: his longtime friend and ''Fockers'' series co-star, Barbra Streisand, once said, ''You have to be very careful of him. He will say anything.''
It may well be that the truth about him really does lie in something exterior, something in the shell rather than the kernel of the nut. He mentions a quotation from the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan that refers to ''the armor of an alienating identity,'' the idea being that if we have too strong a concept of our own identity, we exclude other formations. In the best possible way, he seems to me like a man on the last leg of a marathon journey of escape from himself.
Partly Hoffman is running from the specter of depression: ''It's tactile, a green knot in my stomach,'' he says. ''I once didn't work for five years because of it.'' But his escape attempt is also a deliberate process of stripping himself to something elemental. ''You go back to being a 2-year-old looking at a leaf, the construct of it. You are doing the same thing again. It's something in the middle that messes you up.''
There have been constant challenges in his life. In his 20s he was burned very badly by cooking oil. He has confessed to being a premature ejaculator. (''As you get older there is nothing better: at my age it takes an hour and a half so I think I'm amazing!'' he once told a journalist.) He brushes aside criticism in the British press for a commercial he did for Sky, at the height of the phone hacking scandal. ''Sky's Murdoch?'' he says in amazement. ''Good thing I didn't know, or maybe I wouldn't have done it, what with my well-known liberal views. They got me . . . I put my hands up!''
It's nearly teatime in Pall Mall. The room begins to fill with a tinkling of cups. Outside, it's the magic hour. Hoffman shakes his head. ''I have never known how something I was doing was going to turn out. With the project, as with the character, it's always a kind of revelation. I said that to my wife about 'Luck.' ''
Hoffman and his wife, Lisa, married in 1980 and have four children. His previous marriage, to Anne Byrne, in 1969, ended in divorce (''our relationship was doomed from the beginning,'' he has said); they had one child together and Hoffman adopted Byrne's daugher from a previous marriage. These days, Hoffman divides his time between residences in New York, Los Angeles and Kensington, London.
In the 1980s, he had close relationships with Arthur Miller (''we lived near each other and he wanted to borrow my tennis court'') and Joseph Heller: ''When he got ill and was in the hospital and couldn't move, I brushed his teeth for him, and got him one of those Walkmans -- they were new then -- to listen to classical music.'' Hoffman now does this himself: puts on headphones and walks the streets.
Mentioning Heller's novel ''Closing Time,'' he says: ''If I had one wish, it would be to live long enough to get to a point where you know yourself. Is that ever possible? Well, you won't and you don't. But you have to retain a sense of wonder.''
Part of the appeal to Hoffman of a drama about gambling lies in a remark of David Milch's: ''More and more I think the key thing with gambling is about a desire for a loss of time, or for time not to run in the normal way.''
Is there still time for a new career in television dramas? Hoffman shrugs and says he has tombstone fantasies. ''At least once a week. I write down the epitaphs, I guess as a daily awareness of mortality that arms me against it. For instance: 'I knew this was going to happen.' ''
''That would be a good catchphrase for Ace,'' I interject.
''Interesting you say that because I think I may be allowing this role to be closer to myself than I ever have done before. At my age I have no other choice but to inherit the moment and see how it develops. I am out there every day, wary but still open to new experience, which is good for that character and good for me too.''
We stand up, suddenly aware that teatime has turned into evening, and the room has filled up with people getting drinks and reading the newspapers, and he says, ''We should finish our good wine.''
Descending to the lobby, I ask him what's next. ''Back to L.A. for Christmas and then back here for the edit of 'Quartet.' Then to Vegas for some of the next season of 'Luck.' I don't know how I am going to manage it. I'm getting too old for this jetting around.''
But as he enters the winter night, wrapping his scarf round his neck and clamping his headphones on his ears to embark on the walk to Kensington, he seems like a man ready for anything, odds be damned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chance encounter: Hoffman was photographed at his home in Los Angeles in January. Giorgio Armani shirt, $495. Go to armani.com.
 Second act In the HBO series ''Luck,'' Dustin Hoffman plays a gambler recently released from prison. Prada shirt, $390. Go to prada.com. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEDI SLIMANE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (71%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (65%); HORSE RACING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



122 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Homeward Bound

BYLINE: By GARRET KEIZER. 
Garret Keizer is the author of ''The Unwanted Sound of Everything We Want: A Book About Noise.'' His latest work, ''Privacy,'' will be published in August.

 BODY:
THE ACCORDION FAMILY
Boomerang Kids, Anxious Parents, and the Private Toll of Global Competition
By Katherine S. Newman
261 pp. Beacon Press. $25.95.
GOING SOLO
The Extraordinary Rise and Surprising Appeal of Living Alone
By Eric Klinenberg
273 pp. The Penguin Press. $27.95.
So these two sociologists go into a bar and the man says to the woman, ''What have you been up to?''
''I've been studying what I call 'accordion families,' '' she says. ''Right now something like three and a half million American parents are sharing a house with adult kids who've either come back home or never left.''
''You want to talk about trends?'' the man counters. ''Did you know that aside from childless couples the most common household type in America is an adult living alone? That's one out of seven adults, over 30 million people.'' 
Wishing to avoid an argument, the sociologists appeal to the bartender. Which trend seems more significant to him? ''Beats me,'' he says, ''but I liked this place a lot better when the customers were political economists.''
It's not funny, I know, but it's not the punch line, either. That comes when the two sociologists I have in mind -- /Katherine S. Newman of Johns Hopkins University, the author of ''The Accordion Family,'' and Eric Klinenberg of New York University, the author of ''Going Solo'' -- conclude their fascinating studies with a nod each to the bartender. Except by then they're no longer in a bar; they're in Sweden. We'll get to that.
First let's look at those so-called accordion families, which Newman evaluates both as a transnational phenomenon and in the nuanced particulars of individual households. Like Klinenberg, she devotes a good portion of her book to personal interviews, but where Klinenberg goes deep in his emphasis on the United States, Newman goes wide. At the extreme end of her analysis is a country like Italy, where 37 percent of 30-year-old men live with their parents, and have never lived anywhere else. Less striking but certainly notable is a parallel trend in the United States, where a higher proportion of adult children now live with parents than at any time since the 1950s.
Newman states her thesis plainly: ''Global competition is the most profound structural force affecting the residential location of young adults in the developed world (or the under/developed world, for that matter)'' -- but one is impressed by her refusal to turn thesis into dogma. She acknowledges that different cultures define adulthood in different ways, with Americans tending to see it as ''a process of self-discovery'' and Europeans as ''a station defined by the way one relates to others.'' She also appreciates the mutual benefits of multi/generational households, as suggested by a survey showing that 76 percent of American parents of 21-year-olds say they feel close to their child, as opposed to a mere quarter of their own parents saying the same.
Still, Newman does not shy away from the larger effects of a child's ''failure to launch,'' independently, into the world. Not the least of these is a generation's failure to generate. At present there are four workers in Europe for every pensioner; by 2050 there will be only two workers for every retiree. Birthrates in the United States would also be falling if not for Mexican immigrants -- yet another job they've taken on, along with those of lawn- and elder-care and favored scapegoat. But in Japan, the fastest-aging country in the world, where only 1 percent of the population is foreign-born, the future looks more bleak.
Newman also takes pains to show how accordion families shape up across class lines -- the difference between an /upper-middle-class family providing rent-free space to a child earning a law degree and a subsistence family hanging on to a child in order to make the rent. Part of this difference is that ''working-class kids do not boomerang back into the family home'' but ''like their Spanish or Italian counterparts . . . do not leave home at all until much later in life.''
Newman's class consciousness is no less pronounced in Klinenberg, who maintains it at far greater risk to his argument. Where Newman views her subject with qualified concern, Klinenberg is more celebratory about ''going solo,'' which he tends to see as ''a remarkable social experiment'' on the part of over 200 million adults worldwide (a 33 percent increase in the decade between 1996 and 2006). ''For the first time in human history, great numbers of people . . . have begun settling down as singletons,'' a development rich with ''new possibilities for our personal, romantic and social lives,'' and a potential corrective to the ''hyper/networked, ultra-active, 24/7 culture'' of the World Wide Mind. But just when a reader might grow restive hearing the testimonies of entrepreneurial singletons in pristine health, Klinenberg takes us on a Dantean tour of S.R.O.'s (single-room-/occupancy hotels) and nursing homes, some of which, like those in New York, ''lie in the shadows of the most safe and prosperous communities on earth.'' Here he shows us the terrors of languishing, ailing and dying alone. Klinenberg can make going solo look sexy, but ''Sex and the City'' this ain't.
Taking issue with Joseph Schumpeter, who saw late capitalism's ''disintegration of the bourgeois family'' as part of a broader ''decomposition'' of collective life, Klinenberg nevertheless exemplifies Schumpeter's famous definition of a ''civilized man'' (in distinction to a ''barbarian'') as one who recognizes the ''relative validity'' of his ''convictions'' while being able to ''stand for them unflinchingly.'' On those terms, Klinenberg is a civilized man indeed. His only false note for this reader -- though hardly an exception to his civility -- is his willingness to give /serious consideration to the use of robots as companions for the aged. But even here his intelligence allows him no more than a formal bow (''By the time the current generation of young adults reaches old age, their comfort with machines will make robotic companions even more attractive'') as opposed to the groveling prostration often observed in the presence of the All-High Tech. With unassailable judgment he says that ''questions raised by critics'' like me ''should be directed at all of us, not merely at artificial intelligence researchers.'' The same might be said of the /issues raised by social researchers -- and Klinenberg says it.
''The extraordinary rise of living alone is not in itself a social problem,'' he insists. ''But it is a dramatic social change that's already exacerbating serious problems for which there are no easy solutions: Social isolation for the elderly and frail. Reclusiveness for the poor and vulnerable. Self-doubt for those who worry that going solo will leave them childless, or unhappy, or alone.'' In searching out possible solutions, he takes us to alternative housing experiments like New York City's Common Ground, where formerly homeless residents live as neighbors to ''the working poor, including aspiring actors and artists and a variety of blue-/collar laborers.'' He also takes us to Sweden.
The country interests Klinenberg for what he finds there -- 47 percent of households with one occupant, as opposed to 28 percent in the United States -- just as it interests Newman for what she doesn't find there: namely, a large enough incidence of accordion families to count as a phenomenon. In fact, Newman sees a direct correlation between a country's proportion of adult children living at home and the frailty of its social safety net, with the Scandinavian social democracies having the least incidence and the weak welfare states of Spain, Italy and Japan the greatest. '' 'All for one and one for all -- because no one else is looking out for any of us' might as well be the motto'' for families ''in the laissez-faire countries of the developed world,'' she writes, referring to the family as ''the welfare state of the first resort.''
In Sweden the welfare state does not live over the family garage. The high number of Swedes who leave home at age 18 is doubtless the result of social policies that provide affordable housing for single people, subsidized tuition and housing for students, and support for parents that obviates what many American women see as an unavoidable choice between motherhood and career. (Sweden boasts not only one of the highest birthrates per woman in Europe, but also one of the highest percentages of women in the work force in the world.) The high cost of housing frequently cited by young adults as the main obstacle to independence is much less formidable for the young Swede.
In other words, as Newman says: ''The choice of the 'accordion solution' is political, even if it doesn't feel like it. Americans could decide to go the way of the social democracies, placing the burden of youth independence on the state and hence on all taxpaying shoulders. Or we can slice deep, right to the fiscal bone, and cut the deficit by taking away those supports that enable whatever independence or transitional time we provide for young adults.''
This can be read as a starkly specific answer to a rhetorical question that Klinenberg poses near the end of his book, and implicitly throughout it: ''What if, instead of indulging the social reformer's fantasy that we would all just be better off together, we accepted the fact that living alone is a fundamental feature of modern soci/eties and we simply did more to shield those who go solo from the main hazards of the condition?'' As he points out repeatedly, those hazards can befall any of us, especially when going solo chooses us instead of the other way around. We cannot count on death not to take the ones we count on.
What both authors strongly imply is that our debates about the family, which are nothing if not debates about how people take care of one another, are nothing indeed if we lack the collective political will to take care of one another in the fullest sense. Klinenberg and Newman flesh out their subjects with expertise and devotion, but neither forgets that ''accordion family'' and ''going solo'' are always less definitive terms than rich and poor. Should they walk into any bar where I happen to be sitting, their drinks are on me.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUC MELANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (53%)

TITLE: Accordion Family, The (Book); Going Solo (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



123 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Abuse Abroad, A Path to Justice Here

BYLINE: By LINCOLN CAPLAN

 BODY:
Should foreigners be allowed to use American courts to sue foreign corporations for human rights atrocities committed abroad?
The Supreme Court heard arguments last week on this question in a case brought by Nigerian citizens against the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and other firms, charging gross violations of human rights in Nigeria. Four conservative justices expressed skepticism about the federal courts having the reach to deal with such disputes.
But an arcane 1789 law, called the Alien Tort Statute, permits just such lawsuits to be heard in federal courts if brought against individual defendants. The same should hold true for corporations accused of such offenses abroad, provided they have contact with this country, say, by selling products here. 
In a world where multinational corporations are primary actors, the need for a way to hold them accountable for extreme abuses is more urgent than ever. When corporations do business in America, they have to operate under American law. Providing a forum for victims seeking justice against corporate bad actors is appropriate to America's history and role in the international community.
The aim of the statute -- which allows suits for ''any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States'' -- was to help enhance this role. The law was passed as part of the new nation's efforts to show the world respect for the law of nations by opening its courts to foreign claimants. The statute lay dormant for 170 years, but the principle is just as important today.
It was not until 1980 that the law was unearthed and employed in a watershed case that led to a $10.4 million judgment against a former official of Paraguay (who was visiting the United States) for the torture and murder of a young man in Paraguay. Since then, federal courts have heard over a hundred cases brought by foreign nationals against foreign individuals, and since 1997, against corporations as well.
Human rights lawyers realized that suing only individuals was often inadequate because multinational firms were among those violating international law. Offenses growing out of companies' operations (for example, the brutal use of forced labor) contributed to their profits, so it made sense to seek damages from them for ill-gotten gains.
It was not until 2004 that the Supreme Court took up a case applying this law. In a 6-to-3 ruling, it confirmed that the law allows foreigners to sue for violations of a limited category of universally accepted rights. It also held that those rights and violations should reflect the law when a case is brought.
In 1789, the violations concerned piracy, mistreatment of ambassadors and violations of safe passage. Today, federal courts have found that such violations include torture, genocide, slavery and other crimes against humanity.
The statute does not explicitly say who can be sued. But even in 1789, corporations could be sued for damages for their actions and those of their employees. Under American law, corporations are granted rights like the ability to shield their investors from liability, and in exchange, they are legally accountable for wrongdoing.
Four federal appeals courts have ruled since 2005 that corporations can be held liable under the Alien Tort Statute. Only the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, in Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum, the case now before the Supreme Court, has rejected that concept on grounds that international tribunals have not held corporations liable for human rights violations.
The Nigerian plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages for a brutal campaign in the mid-1990s by three oil companies and the military dictatorship in Nigeria to silence protesters against environmental damage caused by oil operations. Scores were allegedly killed. Many others, including the plaintiffs, said they were captured and beaten. The conduct alleged includes torture, crimes against humanity and executions.
Royal Dutch Petroleum argues that the Supreme Court must look to the law of nations on the question of corporate liability and that no such provision exists in international law. It also contends that finding liability could create international tension.
That stance is wrong on law and policy. International law defines the violations, but enforcement is up to each nation's domestic law, and under American law, corporations have been subject to suits for centuries. Worries about international repercussions are also overblown. As the Supreme Court decided in 2004, the statute applies only to the most abhorrent conduct, and federal courts have carefully rejected suits for infringing on American foreign policy-making as well as for evidentiary reasons.
There is no good justification for a categorical rule against corporate liability. As the economist Joseph Stiglitz said in an amicus brief, these lawsuits can be an efficient way to enforce human rights in countries where court systems and other means of policing violations are ineffective. Potential civil liability gives corporations an incentive to improve their conduct. If a multinational company commits an offense like torture, the fact that it is a corporation and not an individual is immaterial in the pursuit of justice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Wiwa in Chicago last month. He is one of the Nigerians trying to sue three companies in American courts, charging them with human rights violations in Nigeria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TORTURE (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); TORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); APPEALS (78%); MURDER (77%); DAMAGES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (62%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (57%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (72%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (72%); RDSA (AMS) (72%); RDS.B (NYSE) (72%); RDS.A (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (95%); PARAGUAY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



124 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Los Alamos Residents Brace for Layoffs at Lab

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
LOS ALAMOS, N.M. -- Sharon Stover remembers the stories her mother used to tell about what life was like when Los Alamos National Laboratory first opened during World War II.
The jobs that flooded this impoverished swath of northern New Mexico, the government men who made the small hilltop town their home, the prideful sense that the secret work being done here would surely keep America's enemies at bay.
Nearly 70 years later, a cloud of uncertainty has drifted in over the hallowed national laboratory, which helped give birth to the Manhattan Project and has been a crucible of the nation's nuclear weapons research and development. 
Last month, the Obama administration decided to defer construction of a new plutonium research facility at the laboratory for at least five years because of budget constraints.
On Feb. 21, the lab announced that it would need to lay off up to 11 percent of its 7,600 permanent employees, a target that officials hope can be reached through volunteers. On Thursday, the lab's director, Charles F. McMillan, met with employees to explain the terms of buyouts, which they can apply for beginning Monday.
''We're very worried and concerned about the cuts,'' said Ms. Stover, the chairwoman of the Los Alamos County Council, whose parents worked at the lab and whose husband is an engineer there. ''We were told these missions were key to the defense of our country.''
Lab officials said a budget shortfall, coupled with the postponement of the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement-Nuclear Facility, a huge project that had been in the planning stages for years, led to the cuts.
The lab's budget for the 2012 fiscal year is $300 million less than the $2.55 billion, mostly in federal money, that it received last fiscal year.
''I'm hoping we can do it all as voluntary because it's far less disruptive to the work force,'' Mr. McMillan said in an interview on Friday. ''A lot depends on what happens within the next month.''
He added: ''We are one of the largest employers in the northern part of the state. Inevitably, these kinds of actions do have a ripple effect.''
In 2008, amid similar budget constraints, 431 workers were let go with buyouts. But this year's cuts will probably run deeper, and Mr. McMillan acknowledged that they would be difficult.
In addition to those workers eligible for the buyouts, the lab also employs about 3,500 contractors, students and others. Mr. McMillan said the layoffs were necessary so that Los Alamos, which has shifted its mission from primarily nuclear weapons to national security, could continue its work ''10, 20, 50 years from now.''
For now, though, the one-two punch of the cuts and the plutonium facility's delay has sowed unease in Los Alamos -- a true company town where nearly half of the lab's permanent workers live in the area.
''Those early in their career are understandably quite worried,'' said one longtime employee, who did not wish to be identified because she was considering taking the buyout and did not want to jeopardize her position. ''A lot of it is the uncertainty: Where do I stand now? How vulnerable am I?
''This is the first time that Los Alamos is not looked at as one of the best places to work if you are a scientist, career-wise,'' she said.
Rich Montoya, president of the university professional and technical employees' union at Los Alamos, said that workers who had built their careers and skill sets around the lab's nuclear weapons program were rightfully concerned about their future.
''We've been waiting for this to happen for quite a while,'' he said.
Meanwhile, New Mexico politicians, who have long sought to shield the lab from downsizing, have reacted strongly to the cuts.
Senator Tom Udall, a Democrat who once represented northern New Mexico as a congressman, said in a statement that he was concerned that the budget would ''impact the talent at L.A.N.L. and the vital work being performed there.''
A spokesman for Gov. Susana Martinez, a Republican, said the governor was also worried about the effect on northern New Mexico's economy and believed that the cuts were a byproduct of dysfunction in Washington.
Donald L. Cook, deputy administrator for defense programs for the National Nuclear Security Administration, said a decision had been made to build a new uranium processing facility at the Y-12 National Security Complex in Oak Ridge, Tenn., in lieu of completing the plutonium facility at Los Alamos for the time being.
''It's really important to understand that we have not canceled the project,'' Dr. Cook said.
The nuclear security administration oversees Los Alamos, as well two other national laboratories. Dr. Cook said the costs for replacing the existing plutonium facility at Los Alamos had risen substantially during the planning stages.
Around Los Alamos, a town of about 12,000 that overflows with scientists, postdoctoral students and nods to its nuclear past, virtually everyone holds some connection to the lab.
At the Otowi Station book store, where books like ''Now It Can Be Told: The Story of the Manhattan Project'' fill the shelves, co-owner Peggy Durbin worried about the prospect of losing hundreds of residents.
''What's going to keep people here? It's going to be tough,'' said Ms. Durbin, who worked at the lab for 22 years as a technical writer and editor. ''The lab sniffles, and all of northern New Mexico gets a cold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Los Alamos National Laboratory employs 7,600 permanent workers and 3,500 contractors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POWER PLANTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); COUNTIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



125 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: After Sunset

BYLINE: By ISAAC CHOTINER. 
Isaac Chotiner is the executive editor of The Book: An Online Review at The New Republic.

 BODY:
GHOSTS OF EMPIRE
Britain's Legacies in the Modern World
By Kwasi Kwarteng
Illustrated. 466 pp. PublicAffairs. $29.99.
The question of whether, say, India or Nigeria are ''better off'' because of British imperialism contains an inherent contradiction: before colonialism there were no states called India or Nigeria. But to prove the horrors of imperial rule -- or to dispute the historians who recommend that the United States self-consciously adopt Britain's former ''burden'' -- one has only to examine the catastrophic choices of British colonialists that continue to influence events today.
''Our only justification for 200 years of power was unification,'' says a character in Paul Scott's Raj Quartet, reflecting on the ugliness of partitioning the subcontinent into India and Pakistan. ''But we've divided one composite nation into two and everyone at home goes round saying what a swell the new viceroy is for getting it sorted out so quickly.'' 
While it is true that colonial policy was often formulated in London, it is equally true that Britain could become the greatest power on earth only by delegating power -- either to Britons who served as imperial representatives or to local forces intent on doing the empire's bidding. But Kwasi Kwarteng, in this fine book, argues that the empire granted far too much authority to the wrong people. ''Accidents and decisions made on a personal, almost whimsical, level have had a massive impact on international politics,'' Kwarteng writes.
''Ghosts of Empire'' explores six cases where this impact was felt: Iraq, Nigeria, Sudan, Hong Kong, Kashmir and Burma. This is a list without many success stories, and Kwarteng, who is a Conservative member of Parliament with Ghanaian parents and who claims to want to transcend ''sterile'' debates about the empire, ends up making a damning case. ''The British Empire is a bizarre model to follow for fostering stability in today's world,'' he says. ''Indeed, much of the instability in the world is a product of its legacy of individualism and haphazard policy making.''
Kwarteng's examples all provide him with common themes. Although the kingdom of Iraq, which arose from the ashes of the Ottoman Empire, was under an imperial mandate only until 1932, the British retained significant control until the late 1950s. Yet by repeatedly putting its faith in unpopular rulers who could be depended upon to ensure a steady supply of oil, London inadvertently set off several nationalist explosions. A string of army coups, starting in 1958, eventually led to Saddam Hussein. Kwarteng convincingly argues that the trust placed in the pro-Western Hashemite rulers was largely a function of the snobbery and arrogance of the people who actually administered the empire.
One sees the same arrogance in London's treatment of Africa. Britons in Nigeria had an innate distrust of educated ''natives'' and decided to grant resources and autonomy to more traditional tribal chieftains, who were intent on pursuing local, not national, interests. Britain's decision to join the Islamic north of the country with non-Muslim settlements in the south fed tribal conflicts and insurgencies that have lasted to this day.
In Sudan, meanwhile, British authorities ruled the north and south separately, ultimately to calamitous effect. Southern Sudan has recently become a separate country after decades of bloodshed, and the last 10 years have seen unconscionable war and genocide in the Darfur region, which was mindlessly tacked on to Sudan during World War I. Kwarteng quotes Rudyard Kipling, who, with astonishing condescension, wrote that the Sudanese ''will honestly believe that they themselves created . . . the easy life which they were bought at so heavy a price.'' Here as elsewhere, Kwarteng is critical but not patronizing, allowing the reader to grasp the motivations of the British while simultaneously seeing the shortcomings of their decisions.
Hong Kong, with its successful economy and relatively free society, is the one example in this well-written book that does not quite fit Kwarteng's pattern. He ably conveys the unwillingness of British administrators to allow a functioning representative government. But it is still worth pointing out that the partial autonomy China has granted Hong Kong -- largely because of the territory's history as a British possession -- compares favorably with the liberties allowed on the mainland.
Kwarteng is extremely effective at showing the problems with British policy, but his discussion of Kashmir reveals the limitations of his analysis. Yes, British rule in this beautiful state (which, despite its largely Muslim population, became part of majority-Hindu India after partition) was shortsighted. And yes, by ensuring Hindu domination in the century leading up to partition, British civil servants exacerbated the region's problems. But Kashmir became an incredibly dangerous and volatile place only because of the much larger decision to partition India into two countries. If that fateful decision had not been made, the myopia of officials in Kashmir would have been localized. Similarly, in Iraq, the selfishness and greed of British civil servants must be set alongside the disturbing lack of knowledge about Sunnis and Shiites that was exhibited by officials in London (like Winston Churchill, then the secretary of state for the colonies), who insisted on British control in the first place. Big decisions can also have big consequences.
Kwarteng does not spend much time on religion, even though the British ''legacy of individualism'' that he highlights no doubt had something to do with the country's Protestant character. Delegating authority probably contributed to British military successes in wars against more hierarchical Catholic powers like Spain and France, but the darker side of this aspect of Protestant individualism is visible throughout Kwarteng's book. This is not to say that the Spanish or French empires were any less brutal than the British Empire -- on balance they were probably more savage -- but for the sake of his argument Kwarteng should have dwelt longer on how their religious beliefs influenced Britain's imperialists.
In Simon Raven's novel ''Sound the Retreat,'' a colonel in the British Army is having a conversation with an Indian friend on the eve of independence. After being informed that Indians ''wish to order their own affairs,'' the officer turns sour: ''It's your fault. You will insist on the British leaving.'' To which his Indian interlocutor responds, ''Partly because we do not like being spoken to in that tone of voice.'' The British Empire would never have been what it was if its servants did not believe that they were part of a mission civilisatrice, something larger than themselves. But as George Orwell detailed in his fiction and essays about Burma, one of Kwarteng's case studies, you cannot really rule over people for too long without losing a bit of your own humanity, no matter what your original mission.
It is no wonder that the men tasked with administering the British Empire were too often loftily arrogant and too often inclined to take the tone that Raven identifies. Kwarteng's book does not condescend toward its subjects, even if they were much too condescending toward the people they viewed as their own subjects.

GRAPHIC:  MAP: A map of the world showing, in red, the extent of the British Empire in 1901. (MAP FROM UNIVERSAL HISTORY ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HISTORY (71%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) KASHMIR (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); INDIA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

TITLE: Ghosts Of Empire: Britain's Legacies in the Modern World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



126 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE COMPLETION CRISIS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: New Plans To Improve Performance At T.S.U.

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
With a mere 3 percent of Texas Southern University students graduating within four years -- and less than a quarter earning their degree in a decade -- the school's president, John Rudley, knows that people are asking ''What's wrong with this institution?'' and ''What are they going to do about it?''
Mr. Rudley, the person charged with finding a path forward for the college with the state's worst graduation rate, said he constantly asked himself those same questions.
''We're in an industry that has benchmarks,'' Mr. Rudley said of the graduation rates, ''and that's a benchmark I'm not going to support.'' 
Critics say the low graduation rate at T.S.U. is unacceptable. With predictions that more than 60 percent of the nation's jobs will require a higher-education credential in 2020, the same critics say that such low-performing universities could create economic problems by not successfully preparing the state's work force for the future.
Primarily a commuter campus, T.S.U. is a historically black college in the urban Third Ward in Houston, and it receives more state financing per student than the University of Texas at Austin.
Would-be students ''should be looking at the community college and not be lured into going to a four-year institution that's not going to be able to graduate them,'' said Bill Hammond, the president of the Texas Association of Business, which has been pushing the Legislature to address the issue of college completions.
''It's unfair to the kids when they have little or no probability of graduating,'' he added. (The Texas Association of Business is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
But Glenn Lewis, the chairman of T.S.U.'s board of regents, said that the university's low numbers, which are among the nation's worst, reflect a school willing to take chances on a high volume of students who are inadequately prepared -- culturally, academically and economically -- for college.
''I'm not sure that I agree that the graduation rate says what most people think it says,'' he said. ''But we do recognize that we're going to be evaluated on that, and we've got to get that up.''
Mr. Rudley said that to appreciate how T.S.U.'s rates could be so low, it is necessary to understand the university's past as an urban institution ''for students who didn't have 1,500 on their SATs.''
T.S.U., born out of segregation 85 years ago following a lawsuit over race-based discrimination at the University of Texas School of Law, has a student body that is roughly 83 percent black, 6 percent Hispanic and 3 percent white.
T.S.U.'s reputation -- and its enrollment -- sustained a blow in 2006 following an administrative accounting scandal that led to the ouster and indictment of President Priscilla Slade, and the removal of the entire board of regents. (Ms. Slade later made a plea deal and reached a financial settlement.) Throughout its struggles, and even when some questioned the university's viability, T.S.U. has had staunch protectors in the State Legislature.
''We have traditionally white universities -- it's called Texas A&M. We need traditionally black universities,'' said Representative Garnet Coleman, a Democrat whose district includes T.S.U. ''That aspect of our culture is extremely important, because some things are unique to African-Americans.''
Mr. Rudley, who is in his fourth year as president, said T.S.U. had historically been shortchanged, both by the state and by college leaders who failed to make the necessary strategic moves to grow the university.
He said his administration is taking a more hands-on, student-centric approach that should improve academic achievement, which he said had not previously received sufficient attention. Despite what the graduation rates suggest, Mr. Rudley said the campus is in the midst of a renaissance.
It's a far cry from six years ago, when campus grounds had been neglected and buildings sat in disrepair. The center of campus, which was once only concrete, is now lined with grass and trees. And the university has gotten its financial house in order.
This self-improvement project, along with the administration's desire to upgrade T.S.U.'s reputation, is filtering down to the student body. Brianna Isaac, a freshman from Tyler who is studying education, said, ''I want to be the one to bring those statistics up.''
Ms. Isaac said she had turned down several universities with higher graduation rates. ''I knew what I was getting into,'' she said.
The efforts to right the ship at T.S.U. have not been cheap. Texas Southern University currently spends nearly as much per student as Texas A&M University, which has a four-year graduation rate of about 51 percent. Mr. Rudley said that is a result of the process of hiring almost an entirely new administrative staff.
Mr. Rudley came from the University of Houston System, where the downtown campus has an equally low four-year graduation rate. One of the first moves he made when he took over in 2008 was to introduce admissions standards.
T.S.U. had been one of the state's last open-enrollment public universities. Now prospective students must have at least a 2.5 grade point average and either a combined reading and math score of 820 on the SAT or a 17 on the ACT.
In the past, anyone could enroll, but the school currently accepts only about three-quarters of its applicants, according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
''Most of us had fought that over the years,'' Mr. Coleman, the state representative, said of the admissions change. ''We thought access should be free and open.''
Mr. Coleman ultimately came to view the switch as a positive. But he said that accountability measures like graduation rates should take into account how tuition costs have increased over time and the effect that had on students' ability to finish their degrees.
''People like to talk about slackers when the reason people don't move forward and finish in four years probably has little to do with slacking and more to do with working,'' he said.
Part of T.S.U.'s student-centric push is a new academic village, financed with a $2.7 million grant, that houses 390 of T.S.U.'s 1,100 freshmen. They get around-the-clock support from live-in T.S.U. staff members with the explicit intention of graduating the entire group in four years.
To meet that goal, students in the academic village are pushed to take at least 15 credit hours each semester and are encouraged not to hold jobs. Mr. Rudley said graduation rates are unlikely to rise without applying pressure. ''If you just let them do things on their own, they'll start out with 15 hours and drop down to 12 hours, then drop down to 9 hours,'' he said.
James Smiley, a sophomore who has grown up in Houston, is working his way through T.S.U. He said the university's graduation rates had no direct bearing on his personal success.
''When I look at the numbers, I just use that for self-motivation,'' he said.
Mr. Rudley said he would like to see the university's 12 percent six-year graduation rate rise to 28 percent to 35 percent.
While that is hardly a top-tier ambition, Mr. Rudley called it ''decent and respectable and matching with our mission.''
That may not satisfy critics, he said, but ''I want them to say, in the same breath, 'They're working on it.' ''
Completion Crisis: This article is part of a series on the lagging graduation rates at public universities in Texas and the ways university officials are responding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: O'Shaun Smallwood and Kristen Gooden take a break on the plaza of the Student Life Center at Texas Southern University, which has the lowest four-year graduation rate in the state, about 3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLIE RICHMOND FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RACE & RACISM (71%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); LITIGATION (63%); SPONSORSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



127 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Acting, Naturally

BYLINE: By SUSANNAH CLAPP

 BODY:
It is striking that Londoners, notorious for being convulsed by courtesy, embarrassed by display and unwilling to look people in the eye on the street, should have theater as their most celebrated art form. And never more so than now: even in this last dark year, when recession has threatened to make directors less adventurous, and innovative small companies have begun to struggle because of underfinancing, the range of work has been tremendous. We've had Jacobean gore, 18th-century romping, a revelatory musical work based on the murder of prostitutes and a love story involving quantum physics. Disused warehouses are regularly now taken over for gorgeously constructed immersive events: the stage is part of the fabric of the city. The diversity of acting styles is tremendous as well, drawing not only on the long tradition of speech work but also on movement theater, circus talent, television underplaying. As is shown here: from the peerlessly subtle Eileen Atkins and Judi Dench -- whose voice is a mille-feuille of crackles and whispers -- to Bertie Carvel, one of the buoyant acting hopes of a new generation. But then, London has never been dominated by one kind of theatrical experience. The city's variety is its distinction. I pin this surprising gift on Shakespeare, a dramatist who was never constrained by good taste. 
Interviews by Hattie Crisell

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (LEFT) MARK RYLANCE: Age: 52. Select accolades: Two-time Laurence Olivier Award winner
two-time Tony Award winner. Sample rave:' 'What lends the play its amphetamine rush of excitement is watching Rylance, an actor of indisputable greatness, giving the most thrilling performance it has ever been my privilege to witness.'' Charles Spencer, The Daily Telegraph, on ''Jerusalem'' (MM28)
(ABOVE) JUDI DENCH: Age: 77. Select accolades: Dame of the British Empire
Academy Award winner
six-time Laurence Olivier Award winner and recipient of the Society of London Theater Special Award. On her dream role: ''I don't have a dream role I'm dying to play. I'm a very bad chooser. I just wait to be asked to play it.'' (MM29)
(LEFT) BERTIE CARVEL: Age: 34. Select accolades: Nominated for Best Actor in a Musical, Laurence Olivier Awards
shortlisted for Best Actor, Evening Standard Theater Awards. On getting his start: ''I started my career in London with a series of roles that involved me being naked onstage. I was starting to think I'd never work clothed again. Luckily that stage seems to have passed.'' (MM30)
(ABOVE) SIMON RUSSELL BEALE: Age: 51. Select accolades: Commander of the Order of the British Empire
three-time Laurence Olivier Award winner. On his stage debut: ''I was in my 20s. At that age, it doesn't feel like anything. But as you get older, the stress of playing parts that have been played before by great actors gets worse and worse.'' (MM31)
(ABOVE) VINETTE ROBINSON: Age: 31. Sample rave: ''Vinette Robinson is deeply moving and crystal-clear as Ophelia.'' Henry Hitchings, This Is London On approaching a role: ''The characters that most intrigue me are the ones furthest away from myself. What I fi nd interesting is delving into those aspects of life or approaches to life or ways of seeing the world which are diff erent from mine.'' (MM32)
(OPPOSITE PAGE, (ABOVE) CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT) DANIEL KALUUYA: Age: 22. Select accolades: London Evening Standard Theater Award: Editor's Award. Sample rave: ''At the heart of Roy Williams's bracing new play is a performance of piercing intensity by Daniel Kaluuya. [who] combines anger, eloquence, a pained worldliness and a strangely childlike capacity for fantasy.'' Henry Hitchings, This Is London
ANNE-MARIE DUFF: Age: 41. Sample rave: ''Duff 's growing reputation as the fi nest British actress of her generation is bolstered with every performance.'' Jenny McCartney, ''Is This the New Judi Dench?'' The Daily Telegraph On theater: ''When you're in a production in London, you feel like you're in the eye of the storm. It's a sprawling city that's swollen with creative activity.''
EILEEN ATKINS: Age: 78. Select accolades: Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire
three-time Laurence Olivier Award winner. On acting in London versus America: ''I love working with British actors. Method acting is unacceptable to most of us
it means too much time talking about it rather than doing it.''
PATRICK STEWART: Age: 71. Select accolades: Knight Bachelor
threetime Laurence Olivier Award winner. On inspiration: ''When I was a teenager, I came to London to see Sir John Gielgud in 'The Tempest' and was introduced to him in his dressing room. I was bowled away by it. London still means to me what it did then: it is the heart of so much that's important and skilled in British theater.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NADAV KANDER
STYLIST: GEORGINA HODSON
HAIR and MEN'S GROOMING: JO HAMILTON (ATKINS)
OLIVER WOODS (BEALE, CARVEL, ROBINSON, RYLANCE)
ALEX BROWNSELL (DUFF). HAIR and MAKEUP: NAOMI DONNE (DENCH). MAKEUP: ASHLEY WARD (ATKINS, BEALE, CARVEL, KALUUYA, ROBINSON, STEWART)
THOMAS DE KLUYVER (DUFF). LOCATIONS: HAROLD PINTER THEATER (ATKINS, KALUUYA, STEWART)
SPRING STUDIOS: (BEALE, CARVEL, DENCH, DUFF)
YOUNG VIC (ROBINSON)
APOLLO THEATER (RYLANCE). CLOTHES: ATKINS: CARDIGAN By ISSEY MIYAKE
SHOES By HUGO BOSS. CARVEL: SUIT By HUGO BOSS
SHOES By MR. HARE
HAT By LOCK and HATTERS. DENCH: WOOL CASHMERE By CLOTH HOUSE BERWICK STREET
SKIRT By PLEATS PLEASE ISSEY MIYAKE
SHIRT By JAEGER. DUFF: DRESS By NICHOLAS OAKWELL
 SHOES By CHURCH'S. KALUUYA: SHIRT By JOHN VARVATOS. STEWART: FELTED WOOL By CLOTH HOUSE BERWICK STREET.) (MM33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (70%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (55%); PHYSICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



128 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: When Living In Limbo Avoids Living On the Street

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Forced by the harsh realities of the real estate market, lenders are increasingly likely to allow defaulting owners to remain in their homes -- a change in attitude and strategy that is helping to buoy some neighborhoods while further slowing the nation's foreclosure process.
Some lenders are now willing to make deals with owners to let them stay after defaulting, offering to pay home insurance, for example, while the resident pays for utilities. Other lenders simply look the other way, quietly putting off foreclosure sale dates, knowing that the costs of the ordeal probably exceed the diminishing value of the properties.
The evolution in thinking was perhaps inevitable, experts say. Across the country, more than 644,458 properties were lingering in bank ownership at the end of January, but even more -- some 710,725 -- were coming down the foreclosure pipeline, according to RealtyTrac, a real estate and foreclosure analysis firm. 
In addition, states and municipalities have grown more aggressive in the last few months in trying to force banks to maintain foreclosed properties, which have become blights on neighborhoods from coast to coast. Last month, lawmakers in Florida and courts in New York considered new ways to require lenders to alter loans to keep people in their homes or complete foreclosures more quickly.
''Under normal circumstances, the banks would be able to cover the cost of maintenance, upkeep and property taxes by just reselling the property, but these are desperate times, and banks are resorting to somewhat desperate measures in some cases,'' said Daren Blomquist, a vice president at RealtyTrac, a real estate analysis firm. ''It is more of a factor now because property values have come down and will not cover all these costs when the banks resell the property, if they can resell the property.'' When the housing bubble burst almost six years ago, millions of Americans were forced to vacate their homes within months of defaulting, in a system that worked like an eviction mill, often resulting in vandalized properties and bitter feelings between banks and borrowers.
Since then, the average time it takes to complete a foreclosure has nearly tripled nationwide, from four months in 2007 to about a year at the end of 2011, according to RealtyTrac, with the slowdown most evident in some of the hardest-hit states, including California, Florida and Illinois. Homeowners in Florida who default can now expect to wait more than two years in legal limbo, the one big upside being the opportunity to remain at home without paying for home.
As a result, the relationship between many borrowers and lenders is softening from outright animosity to something that more resembles a detente.
Michelle Murray-Clark is one of the beneficiaries -- or so she calls herself on a good day. A grocery clerk who found work last month after three years of unemployment, Ms. Murray-Clark has not made a mortgage payment in 40 months. American Home Mortgage Servicing, the loan processor, has not taken steps to evict her and is working on a third attempt at a loan modification.
The company is also paying insurance on her little house with the blue aluminum siding near downtown Orlando. They talk every week.
''Our whole philosophy is that it's beneficial to keep people in their homes -- better for the consumer, the investors, and for us,'' said Philippa Brown, the vice president for corporate communications at American Home Mortgage Servicing. ''Our job is to work with homeowners who are experiencing hardship and find ways that will keep them in their homes. We're open to new ways of doing things.''
Guy D. Cecala, the publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry newsletter, explained: ''Are you better off leaving a defaulted borrower in there if they're at least maintaining the property? A lot of times, the answer is yes.''
Many wonder why it has taken the banks and loan servicers so long to adapt. Andrae Bailey, executive director of the Community Food and Outreach Center in Orlando, said, ''We are seeing lenders start to work with families in a way that would have made sense in 2008.'' But he worries that because so many neighborhoods have already deteriorated, ''it's too little too late.''
These days, some banks announce their willingness to compromise to keep houses occupied. Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman in the home mortgage division of Wells Fargo, said, ''To the point of folks remaining in their homes, there is a benefit to keeping a community active with residents.''
Other lenders are often reluctant to discuss such arrangements because of questions of fairness that are inevitably raised: why should defaulting homeowners get a break?
The slowing of a process that was widely seen as out of control has been a welcome relief to many borrowers who are likely to be in economic distress as a result of long-term unemployment or underemployment, experts say. But interviews with several homeowners who have had lengthy stays in their homes after defaulting show that the impact on their lives is both a blessing and a curse.
''Sometimes I wake up in a foul mood,'' said Ms. Murray-Clark, 52. ''The mortgage company, they say, 'We're going to work with you,' so I stop packing. Then they say, 'Sorry, it didn't work,' and I start packing. Then they say, 'Let's try again!' And I stop packing.''
''I know that this is way long for anybody to be in their house,'' she said.
But every day, questions nag: Should she save her first paycheck to pay for movers, or should she make repairs to the roof? If the latest attempt at a loan modification comes through, how will she pay for the accumulated interest and penalties?
''It's very tense, because I don't know what's going to happen,'' she said.
Judith Fox, a law professor who directs the Economic Justice Project at the Notre Dame Law Center in South Bend, Ind., has changed the advice she gives defaulting clients. ''Three or four years ago, I would always tell clients, 'You have three or four months to get yourself together,' '' she said. ''Now I tell folks, even if they've been foreclosed, 'Just stay put, because it could be years before anything happens.' ''
One of Ms. Fox's clients is Nicholas Cline, 35, a construction worker who fell behind on his mortgage payments in 2009. (He thought he had modified his loan, but the company he was working with has since pleaded guilty to criminal fraud.) The bank that holds Mr. Cline's mortgage has left him alone, he said. No letters, no calls, no hassles.
''But now that it's going on three years, what do you do?'' Mr. Cline said. ''I am living in my house. But the stress of this, not knowing what's going to happen or when, it's an unbelievable burden on your mind.''
In New York, the time to complete a foreclosure has almost quadrupled, from 263 days in 2007 to 1,019 days in 2011. Abraham Kleinman, a lawyer in Uniondale who represents homeowners fighting foreclosure, said he counseled a client who felt guilty about remaining in his home so long after defaulting. ''He says to himself, 'I'm sitting here rent free, it can't go on forever,' '' Mr. Kleinman said. ''But the plaintiff has not been aggressive. As near as I can tell, they've put this to the side.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Murray-Clark continues to live in her home in Orlando, Fla., despite not having made a mortgage payment in 40 months. Her loan processor is working on a third attempt at a loan modification and is even paying insurance on the house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
 Nicholas Cline is still living in his foreclosed home in Indiana. ''But the stress of this,'' he said, ''not knowing what's going to happen or when, it's an unbelievable burden on your mind.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHART: Longer Waiting Time: The time to complete a foreclosure has nearly tripled nationwide, from about four months in 2007 to nearly a year in 2011. (Source: RealtyTrac) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EVICTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



129 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Just Like Wall Street . . . Only richer

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Every month, some young bureaucrat in the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange (known, slightly menacingly, as SAFE) reaches out to a trader in London and buys or sells billions of dollars' worth of U.S. Treasury bonds. You've heard the overblown fears that China owns too much U.S. debt, but you might not realize that it's a British firm that regularly gets the commission. That's because London is the world's largest market for dollars. When a company in Shanghai or Sao Paulo decides to sell public shares internationally, they're very likely to choose London, too. 
In fact, if you follow the flow of money around the world, you might be surprised to find that the central node of global finance, the place where money passes through most often, is London, not New York. Wall Street, of course, is no piker. American investment banks -- partly because the U.S. economy is the largest in the world -- do more business and make more money. But when it comes to international transactions, London is the world's financial center. The City of London, its Wall Street, employs more than 300,000 people, whereas Wall Street itself employs fewer than 200,000. Banks in the United States hold total assets that come to about 85 percent of the country's gross domestic product. In Britain, the banks hold almost 400 percent more money than its G.D.P., mainly because so much international business takes place there. And as the U.S. share of global finance shrinks, international business matters more.
How did London surpass Wall Street? In part because even in a world of electronic trading, brokers still want to know there is a human being at the other end of their 0's and 1's. London's working hours overlap with those in the U.S., the Middle East and Asia; New York's don't. The more significant reason, however, is regulation. In 1986, Margaret Thatcher instituted what's known as the Big Bang, which blew up centuries of regulations protecting Britain's old, slow-moving firms. In an instant, the City of London went from a charming, ancient system of legally protected, relatively small institutions to electronic banking, enormous investment conglomerates and millionaires who made their money via speculative bets. Out were the Oxbridge set and oak-paneled rooms. In were ambitious young men with Cockney accents and walls of Bloomberg terminal screens.
More than any specific change in the law, however, the Big Bang signaled that the government wasn't going to obstruct people from making oodles of money. And so between 1986 and 2002, this lack of regulation, often called the light touch, helped London catch up with New York. Then, after Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley reforms in 2002, the balance of power shifted further. Designed to prevent another Enron, this legislation mandated, among other things, numerous reporting requirements that firms complained were expensive and bureaucratic.
U.S.-based companies may have been stuck with this new law, but foreign companies weren't. They could avoid it by simply listing their stocks in London. And many did just that. From 1996 to 2000, U.S. exchanges captured an average of 74 percent of the total value of global public offerings. In 2007, their share fell to about 14 percent. The trend became so troubling that Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Senator Charles E. Schumer and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson mounted a push for less of a regulatory burden. In other words, New York wanted to become like London.
But after the crisis, things flipped; there were heightened calls for tougher regulation on both sides of the Atlantic. In the City of London, the plea was amplified by the fact that the meltdown was caused, in part, by A.I.G.'s financial-products group -- remember, the one that opened offices in London and traded its risky credit-default swaps in the lax regulatory atmosphere? Somewhat as a result, Adair Turner, Britain's top bank regulator, committed to a ''heavier'' touch in 2008. Since then, the Financial Services Authority has fined the New York hedge fund darling David Einhorn, as well as employees of a JPMorgan Chase subsidiary, for insider trading. The message was clear: London was no longer quite so thoroughly open for business.
As calls for reform continue, it's unclear just how banks in either city will react. Will they find ways to deal with the legislation or plan to move their operations to less-regulated locations? The European Union is considering implementing a transaction tax -- applicable in London -- that would put a levy on every financial trade. London's banks hate this idea. HSBC has even threatened to pull up stakes. (Yeah, right. Although HSBC, which moved from Hong Kong to London before China reclaimed the territory, has some experience in this department.)
Alternatively, some suggest that if the U.S. institutes a strict version of the Volcker Rule -- which would prevent profitable but risky proprietary trading -- then Wall Street institutions would high-tail it across the pond. Will any U.S. banks actually make good on their threats? It's unlikely anytime soon. But it's certainly a convenient ploy for banks in either city when lobbying regulators or Congress. Barney Frank, the former chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told me that he came to think of it as ''the 13-year-old son of divorced parents who tries to play Mommy off against Daddy.''
It's even less likely that any large banks will up and leave for a less-regulated environment like Switzerland, Dubai, Singapore or Beijing. Sure, bankers want less regulation, but they also want longstanding rule of law, well-established property rights and a reasonably stable currency. The other candidates -- Frankfurt, Paris, Tokyo -- have, in some cases, even stricter regulations. Switzerland may be famously banker-friendly, but its financial sector is already far too big relative to its small size.
At least for now, the big banks are stuck with New York and London. Within a decade or two, the center of global economic gravity will shift again. It looks as if China's economy will be larger than the United States', and India's won't be far behind. Throw in a few of the Asian tigers -- Indonesia or South Korea -- and it seems clear that a majority of the world's financial activity will take place somewhere between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans. Other quick-growing nations, like Brazil, Chile, South Africa and Turkey, should also move from global financial backwaters to major commercial centers. By as early as 2020, or certainly by 2030, it may seem quaint that we once worried about whether the world's center of finance would be on one side of the Atlantic or the other.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. London's ascendance has its roots in Thatcher's Britain.
2. But it helps to be located in between the U.S. and China.
3. And it may just be a placeholder for Shanghai.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRANT SNIDER) (MM14)
 CHART: Regulation and Its Discontents: A timeline of Wall Street's enthusiasm for reform (MM16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (57%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



130 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; ANXIETY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Things To Fear And Loathe

BYLINE: By PATRICIA PEARSON. 
Patricia Pearson is the author of ''A Brief History of Anxiety ... Yours and Mine.''

 BODY:
A friend recently told me about a new app for the treatment of phobias. You stare at pictures of dental drills, snakes or airplane interiors, depending on your affliction, and these totems of menace -- interspersed with reassuring images of teddy bears -- gradually cease to provoke you.
Does it work? We can't know. My friend has a phobia of stuffed animals. It's something, he says, about the soulless glass eyes. We were talking on the phone, but I could picture him shuddering. 
I, meanwhile, feel fine about snakes, jets and needles, but am haunted by heights and clusters. I haven't seen apps for those, at least not yet.
Of all the manifestations of anxiety, specific phobias are by far the most idiosyncratic. About 6 percent of Americans have an acute fear of animals like rats and birds. But after that, the sources of terror are myriad.
Why objects bunched tightly together should send me into states of high alarm, I cannot say. My daughter once festooned a sock puppet with googly eyes from the craft store, and when I encountered it in the house, I reared like a spooked horse. Being a conscientious mother, I managed to conceal my sense of horror, but she has since witnessed my reaction to stands of mushrooms in the woods, and to dandelion buds in the grass.
There is something -- some hint of unchecked growth, of aggressive profusion -- that I spy in certain geometric arrangements. Could it pertain to disgust, a burgeoning field of research? Might the underlying fear be one of chaos, or of the rapidly multiplying cells in cancer?
Perhaps. On the other hand, maybe not. One attempts to find logical causes for phobia at one's peril.
There is no accounting, for example, for my friend Patrice's abiding terror of mascots. Although she cannot swim, she once ran into the ocean fully clothed and shrieking when a man in a gorilla suit attempted to hand her a flier. On another occasion, she switched hotels in Orlando, Fla., to minimize her risk of encountering Mickey Mouse.
One could speculate about Mascot Zero, some clown or chicken who traumatized Patrice in childhood. But it might be entirely untraceable to any sort of triggering event. According to the psychologist Stephane Bouchard, who studies phobia at the University of Quebec, about a third of phobias are indeed set off by direct exposure to frightening encounters, such as a dog bite. Roughly another third are culturally suggested: a classic example being the increase in shark and water phobias after the movie ''Jaws.'' With that final third, Mr. Bouchard told me, shrugging, ''we just have no clue.''
Let me zero in on that final third.
''I have a fear of honeycomb shapes,'' a woman once wrote to me when I solicited examples of phobias for my research. ''I can't look at something like a beehive. The other day, I saw a box of honeycomb-shaped pasta at the grocery store and it really creeped me out.''
Another person wrote: ''I am terrified of string. You know, when you have a loose string hanging off your clothes. Most people just shrug it off.'' (Who knew?) ''But I go insane until I get it off the item.''
Balloons, pigeons, boats, bald men, cotton batten, garden peas. These have all acted as the culprits, according to reports I've received, in making otherwise reasonable human beings assume the visage of Edvard Munch's screamer. People fear chins, condiments, towels, cut fruit.
The object appears to be irrelevant, in many cases, beyond its subconscious assignation as the Very Thing to Fear.
Oddly, this act of transmuting anxiety into fear does possess a kind of logic. Anxiety has been described as fear in search of a cause, and there's little question that fear is more actionable. Instead of being paralyzed by a sense of directionless menace, as would be the case with a generalized anxiety disorder where danger is everywhere and nowhere, the phobic can pour all dread into one vessel, and then swiftly run away.
In other words, phobia can be a form of compartmentalization.
Aaron Beck, a great thinker about cognitive distortions who founded the Center for Cognitive Therapy at the University of Pennsylvania, has pointed out multiple levels of displacement in phobias. A fear of flying, for instance, can relate to acrophobia (fear of heights), or to claustrophobia, or it can be a stand-in for a much more threatening prospect that dare not be confronted at any cost, such as the death of a parent. You're avoiding grief, and the next thing you know you would rather be trapped in an elevator with bees than board an airplane. The airplane is departing for another world ... but no, that's too obvious.
We are not simple creatures, we human beings, and we know it; yet we still insist on imposing simple explanations upon our emotional conduct. ''They're just freaking dandelions, Mom,'' my son tells me. It's just a garter snake. They're merely peas. How in the world can you be so idiotically afraid of clowns?
There are wider implications here for our civic and political discourse. Certain people may be neurologically prone to anxiety, true, but fear is also circumstantial. The current economic climate is extremely anxiety-provoking, and research has shown that people can tolerate uncertainty for only so long. At some point, the neurotically wired begin to prefer negative certitudes -- or compartmentalized threats -- to ambiguity.
If we cannot tolerate uncertainty, then it might be reasonable to expect an increase in phobic behaviors: xenophobia, Islamophobia, Obamafear, a terror of newts. These aren't stances that can be dealt with by counterargument. They can be quelled only by exposure, by a reminder that the threat is symbolic, a stand-in.
Let's invite the enemy we fear to dine, then, and rescue ourselves from irrational conflict.
This is an article from Anxiety, a series at nytimes.com/opinionator.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (SR6)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOBIAS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); RODENTS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



131 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: A Master's Setbacks in Life Inspire Success at the Board

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
Jay Bonin embodies what it means to live in service to Caissa, the mythical goddess of chess. Bonin, 56, is a New York international master who probably has played more tournaments than anyone. 
The United States Chess Federation lists more than 3,300 tournaments that Bonin has competed in since 1991, which is as far back as the computerized records go, though Bonin played just as frequently in the '80s.
He has paid a price for his devotion to the game.
Though he has a degree in psychology from Brooklyn College, he worked for many years as a courier -- giving him enough money to survive and allowing him to spend his evenings playing chess.
Lately, his life has become more tenuous. He said in an interview three weeks ago that he had not worked as a messenger for five years and that his income, which was never all that much, has fallen to about $10,000 a year, mostly from what he wins in tournaments. He said he was deeply in debt.
''Along the way, I took some wrong turns, I made some bad decisions,'' he said.
He is competing less, partly because of his economic circumstances, but he still wins regularly when he does. ''Amazingly, I'm still having good results because I am under pressure,'' he said.
As examples, he cited his performances in the 25th Last Blunder of 2011 and the 25th Chessaholics Insanity, two tournaments at the Marshall Chess Club in Manhattan that ran back to back starting on New Year's Eve and continuing nonstop into New Year's Day -- a total of 15 games. In years past, he had struggled to compete under such a grueling schedule, but this time he won both tournaments without losing a game.
''Chess is sort of an elixir for me,'' he said.
Bonin likes to steer play into endgames, where his experience is most useful. That was certainly true in a game he won in October in the United States Chess League. His opponent was Vadim Martirosov, a strong master.
Bonin's 7 ... ed4 was unusual; 7 ... Nc6 is more often played.
After 16 ... Bb7, Martirosov had a small edge because his center was superior and he controlled more of the board. But Bonin counterattacked by playing 20 ... f5, and Martirosov's advantage waned.
Bonin slowly outmaneuvered Martirosov, who still had a good chance to draw until he blundered by playing 32 Rh7, instead of 32 Ra7.
Bonin's 32 ... a6 was a decisive move. One point was that Bonin would have had a winning position after 33 ba6 a3 34 a7 Ra4 35 Rh4 Ra7 36 Rf4 Ke5 37 Rf1 Kd5.
Martirosov resigned because his position would have been hopeless after 34 Rh3 a2 35 Ra3 Re1 36 Kf2 a1/Q.

GRAPHIC: DIAGRAMS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BOARD GAMES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHESS FEDERATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



132 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Numbers That Sway Markets and Voters

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
SOMETIMES a number is just a number. But on Tuesday, when the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 13,000, it was treated as much more than that.
Many news accounts and market commentaries portrayed that clean, round string of digits as a milestone that signified the stock market had come a long way since the darkest days of the financial crisis.
Oil and gas prices have also been rising, and are beginning to attract considerable attention, too. How high and how quickly those numbers climb -- and whether they leap above $5 a gallon and morph into a painful symbol of inflation -- could have an enormous impact on the financial markets, the economy and the presidential election. 
''People may not remember too many numbers about the economy, but there are certain signposts they do pay attention to,'' said Ethan Harris, chief North American economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. ''As a shorthand way to assess how the economy's doing, everybody notices the price of gas. It can have a big symbolic impact, and in a presidential election year, when the price is rising, that can create a big headwind.''
On Friday, gas prices averaged $3.74 a gallon nationwide, their highest levels in the winter months but well below the nominal record of $4.11 a gallon in July 2008. Adjusted for inflation, that would be $4.27 today. In California, the average price on Friday was already $4.34.
Largely because of tensions in Iran and other countries in the region, oil prices rose more than 22 percent in the six months through Thursday, according to John LaForge, commodity strategist at Ned Davis Research.
While those numbers may be disquieting, they haven't had much of an effect on either the stock market or consumer sentiment, said Ed Yardeni, an independent economist who has analyzed the price surge.
Partly because energy companies including Exxon and Chevron account for 12.3 percent of the market capitalization of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, rising oil prices ''may actually be good for the stock market, up to a point,'' he said.
Since the second half of 2008, Mr. Yardeni says, there has been a strong positive correlation between energy prices and the stock market.
If prices continue to rise, though, that benign influence is unlikely to last, he says. ''At some point, you'll have a negative feedback loop. High energy prices will correct themselves, and if they go high enough, the negative effects will spill over to stocks and the economy.''
Ned Davis Research has found that when oil prices climb by more than 33 percent in a six-month period, stock market performance then tends to weaken, Mr. LaForge said. Prices may not be a big problem right now, he said, but that could change quickly.
How high will those prices go?
Presumably, futures prices already reflect the collective intelligence of the financial markets, said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist of BNY Mellon. ''Those prices already factor in the risks of a possible war with Iran or an incident in the Strait of Hormuz that disrupts oil shipping,'' he said.
He added that he expects that the impasse over Iran's nuclear program will be resolved peacefully -- and believes that, at the moment, the markets think likewise.
Mr. Hoey said that oil prices might spike further, but that they were likely to come down without much lasting harm. ''Of course, you never know,'' he added.
In the past, the domestic effects of rising gasoline prices have sometimes included a decline in auto sales. So far, though, the most recent energy price surge hasn't had that effect.
To the contrary, auto sales rose sharply in February, carmakers and analysts said last week, with the seasonally adjusted selling rate for new vehicles climbing to about 15.1 million, the highest level since February 2008.
Rising energy prices tend to have a lagging economic impact, said James D. Hamilton, professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego. Unless income also rises -- which isn't happening for many people now -- higher fuel costs will eventually displace other expenditures. And at a certain point, he said, there will be additional ''nonlinear'' effects if prices keep rising.
It's as though people finally sit up and really notice the price increase, and their behavior changes. ''There's no single magic moment when it happens,'' he said. But the data indicates that this effect tends to kick in when the highest price level of the preceding three years is surpassed, he said.
We're not at those levels, but we could easily get there. For regular gasoline in the United States, that average price point would be $4.11 a gallon in nominal terms, and $4.27, accounting for inflation. For oil prices, it would be $145.29 a barrel for benchmark American crude, or $150.87, when inflation is factored in.
Ugly-looking prices at the pump are never a good omen for incumbent politicians. Since 1976, they have generally been inversely correlated with presidential approval ratings, Ned Davis Research has found.
In other words, the more expensive gasoline is, the less popular the president tends to be.
The financial reason for this is obvious: with the possible exception of energy investors, few people enjoy paying more to drive. And because fuel costs affect many other items, including food, rising gasoline prices are often associated with an increase in the cost of living.
ON the other hand, the behavioral changes cited by Professor Hamilton include measures to reduce energy expenditures throughout the economy. Thanks in part to the long-term impact of rising prices, the nation has become far more energy-efficient in recent decades, so high fuel prices today shouldn't hurt as much as they once did.
Figures provided by Ned Davis Research show that in December 1981, for example, energy expenditures accounted for 7.81 percent of disposable income in the United States, compared with only 5.5 percent in December 2011. Inflation-adjusted prices of gasoline were approximately the same in both periods, about $3.30 a gallon.
Higher fuel efficiency may account for the relatively strong level of recent auto sales, despite higher energy prices. Consumers have been buying smaller and less gas-thirsty vehicles, auto industry executives say.
What's more, inflation in the United States is quite low at the moment -- largely because of the weak economy.
Yet the apparent relationship between rising gas prices and falling presidential approval ratings appears to be as strong as ever, Mr. LaForge said. ''President Obama will need to be paying close attention to gasoline prices, even if they don't have the impact they once did,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One station's prices late last month in San Francisco. Rising gas prices have yet to have much economic effect, but the situation could soon change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



133 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Greece Confronts Its Spartan Future

 BODY:
Russell Shorto's depiction of rugged Spartan entrepreneurship amid the misery of modern-day Greece is an understandable attempt at journalistic balance. Yet there can be no denying the systemic rot that has brought this storied nation to its knees. For all of Angela Merkel's mishandling of the sovereign-debt crisis, the German chancellor is not the chief villain in this Greek tragedy. Decades of public profligacy, societal indolence and fiscal duplicity have made Athens the moribund man of Europe. If they wish to restore a proud nation's dignity, today's Greeks ought to heed the words of one of history's greatest Stoics, the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius: ''Stop dithering around. In every confrontation, render what is just; from every impression, extract what is true.'' 
ROSARIO A. IACONIS, Mineola, N.Y.
Well, shucks, that family seems to be living a lot better than I am -- they've got two sofas, a TV, coffee table . . . and a nicely painted room. Unemployment stinks, yes, but that rosy photo isn't creating a lot of sympathy in me. I would love to be able to afford a TV and nice furniture and a colorful apartment.
JIM H., Champaign, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (66%) GREECE (79%); GERMANY (71%); UNITED STATES (66%); EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



134 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Thinker, Tailor

BYLINE: By JACOB BROWN

 BODY:
It's unclear whether any rats were actually spotted that night, but the abandoned meatpacking plant where Siki Im, a German-born designer of Korean descent, presented his first men's collection back in September of 2009 must have played host to a varmint or two. As editors arrived, a noisy band set up in the middle of the damp concrete floor. As the band drummed, the models - clad like castaways in bits and pieces of fine tailoring - encircled the band and audience. There was no fire pit in the middle, but there could have been.
Conjuring the spirit of William Golding's ''Lord of the Flies'' in order to introduce a line of exquisitely constructed men's suits seemed odd at the time, but odd in a good way, the perfect antidote to an overly commercial moment. It also felt brave: as New York continued to descend into the financial crisis, here was an upstart showing well-made suits with skirts, sleeveless suits and shorts/slacks with straps and bandages. 
A few years before, Im had graduated from the Oxford Brookes School of Architecture, in London, and gone to work at a boutique architecture firm in New York. But throughout his studies he had idolized Helmut Lang, and he eventually got an opportunity he had long dreamed of: to work at Helmut Lang - albeit the Helmut-less Helmut Lang. Designing for what was now a large commercial company turned out to be an essential learning experience for Im. He discovered how product lines, merchandising and factories worked. But it didn't live up to what he had imagined creatively. ''I mean just the name, you know?'' he says. ''Lang's design aesthetic changed everything.''
So he decided to strike out on his own, despite the bad economy.
As architects do when pitching a client, Im always begins a collection with an elaborate intellectual concept. This can be tricky, particularly in men's fashion, in which ''concept'' feels very art school very fast. And New York, as opposed to a city like London, doesn't easily forgive self-indulgent concept; it prefers a good business plan.
Im has pulled off both. His spring-summer 2010 collection successfully used the ''Lord of the Flies'' reference to establish a new grammar of tailoring: buttons and fasteners should all be covered, jacket pockets should fold over origami-like at the top to form a triangular flap, shirts should be tunic length under jackets, the skirt should interchange freely with the suit pant. While the styling and staging felt tribal, the actual pieces were more refined. Im seemed to imagine the island's society as a tabula rasa, asking himself: What would a new beginning for men's wear look like if I started it myself?
That debut proved he could translate high concept into functional, appealing, touch-it-and-feel-it clothes. His next collection was Wall Street-inspired, and seemed to cement Siki Im as a tailoring line. He discarded that identity the following season when he spun flowing silk sportswear out of an interest in ''La Haine,'' the French film about xenophobia. Fall 2011 mined American Indian and Amish ideas of geometry and shape.
The current spring collection, called ''The Topography of Globalization,'' would appear to be his most overtly political - although Im professes a different intention.
''I'm definitely influenced by academics who seem to have a more socialist leaning,'' he says, mentioning people like the French philosophers Jean Baudrillard and Gilles Deleuze. But ''it's not their political opinion I am interested in - rather it's their cultural and social theories and observations that help in my design process.''
In the notes that accompanied the spring show, references to Westernization, globalization and the Arab Spring were interwoven with quotes from the American Marxist philosopher and literary critic Fredric Jameson. The connection of such wide-ranging ideas to design, as Im put it, comes from the idea that globalization necessarily involves an import and an export. And he sees his collection posing an important question: If the Arab Spring represents - at least in part - an import of western democracy to the Middle East, what gets exported back to the West?
But here's the thing: you can forget all of that. You don't need to read those notes, or even care about them to like the clothes. And you certainly don't need to see how pieces were styled in the show to wear them. Just know that the cargo pockets are subtle. The prints are vaguely reminiscent of desert camo. The shirts and scarves are generous and draped. And the Siki Im grammar speaks volumes.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Man At Work: From Left: Siki Im In A Soho Showroom
His Mood Boards
A Siki Im Robe, $1,050, Shirt, $330, Pants, $315, And Belt, $200. Go To Sikiim.Com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREAS LASZLO KONRATH)
Label Maker The Titles Of The Runway Collections Above Are A Chance For Im To Wax Poetic. Far Left: The Designer With His Girlfriend Abigail Lorick In A Siki Im Robe, $815. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREAS LASZLO KONRATH
 SIGURD WIDENFALK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); MEN (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (87%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BUSINESS PLANS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



135 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: The Many Sides Of Moral Hazard

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Moral Hazard: A Tempest-Tossed Idea'' (News Analysis, Feb. 26), which said the concept refers to ''the undue risks that people are apt to take if they don't have to bear the consequences.''
The article asked whether it was better to avoid moral hazard by maintaining a homeowner's overwhelming debt, or to bail out the homeowner at everyone else's expense. The best choice is neither. This is exactly the situation that the notion of bankruptcy was designed to address, forcing both borrowers and lenders to take their losses and move on. Painful for both, it requires borrowers to adjust to their new circumstances and the lender to take a ''haircut.'' Society doesn't bail out either, and the borrower gets a better shot at getting back on his or her feet. 
Many people don't want to go this route. But whether we are talking about over-indebted homeowners or whole countries like Greece, an unwillingness to take the short-term pain of wiping the slate clean only prolongs the borrower's suffering and defers recovery for both borrower and society. Jeff Bodenstab
Boston, Feb. 26
To the Editor:
The concept of moral hazard plays an important role in helping to sustain high health care costs.
Health insurance has the effect of insulating patients from their full costs of care. There is moral hazard in that people will use health care services more if they are insured than if they have to bear the full costs of these services. This form of consumer behavior thus leads to higher utilization of health care services and potentially higher systemwide costs.
The ''undue risks'' in this case are the potential extra exposures to medication errors and other patient safety issues that may occur during hospitalization. Neil Dworkin, Ph.D.
Norwalk, Conn., Feb. 27
The writer is an emeritus professor of management at Western Connecticut State University.
To the Editor:
The threat of moral hazard is often wildly overestimated, and laws should reflect the imbalance between the probable and the possible. One solution is to write legislation with a moral-fraud threshold.
Here's how it would apply to the article's example of distributing debit cards to hurricane victims: Only if hurricane emergency payments are shown to result in more than the normal amount of credit card fraud would the payment criteria be tightened and penalties increased. Similarly, stronger ID checks would be mandated only if voter fraud rose above the background level of miscounts and hanging chads.
Setting a trigger point not only simplifies laws in the absence of a demonstrated moral fraud, but it forces legislators to put the potential hazard in perspective to everyday risks. Sometimes, the closer you look at a problem, the smaller it becomes.
Greg E. Blonder
Summit, N.J., Feb. 26
The writer teaches a course in scenario planning at the New School.
To the Editor:
The article was a needed rebuke to many economists' facile use of the concept of moral hazard. But the idea also needs a companion concept, that of ''immoral hazard,'' that points to situations that should not be allowed to occur or continue.
Examples abound: Depending on levees that could not protect New Orleans. Underregulating financial markets. Forcing people to rely on hospital emergency rooms for medical care. Or, hiring people for dangerous jobs as in poorly inspected coal mines.
Immoral hazards are more common than moral hazards, but the intellectual apparatus of economics fails to cope with them. S.M. Miller
Sarasota, Fla., Feb. 28
The writer is a professor emeritus of sociology at Boston University.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (89%); WRITERS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); HURRICANES (64%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); ELECTION FRAUD (60%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



136 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Comrades, Optimize!

BYLINE: By ANDREW MEIER. 
Andrew Meier is the author of ''Black Earth: A Journey Through Russia After the Fall.''

 BODY:
RED PLENTY
By Francis Spufford
434 pp. Graywolf Press. Paper, $16.
While many look back on the Soviet Union and fixate on the politics, purges and wars, the British writer Francis Spufford, in his latest high-wire act, has devoted Stakhanovite study and considerable literary muscle to another endeavor. He tells the story of ''an idea,'' the dream that mobilized a generation, created one of history's largest industrial monsters and ultimately doomed it to failure. ''Red Plenty,'' as its title suggests, is the story of the Bolshevik promise of abundance. 
Spufford's odds of success were tall, for he has not only created a genre-bender -- part novel, part history -- he's taken as his subject what may be the most boring corner (central planning) of a very boring field (Soviet studies). From the preamble: ''This is not a novel. It has too much to explain, to be one of those. But it is not a history, either, for it does its explaining in the form of a story.'' Radical? Not really. At least, not on Russian turf. Think: ''Darkness at Noon,'' ''Doctor Zhivago,'' ''One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.'' ''Storifying'' history, for Solzhenitsyn, was old hat. ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' though he did not deem it literature, bears the subtitle ''An Experiment in Literary Investigation.'' Still, Spufford juggles well, and includes 53 pages of endnotes. The result is a marvel -- at once pure skazka, an old-style Russian fairy tale, and a deeply researched history populated with characters, episodes, even dialogue, snatched from history.
Spufford the fabulist conjures up the fluo/rescent dead-dull drone of Soviet life, the post-Stalin, pre-Brezhnev heyday, flowing with dread and promises, a realm where briefcases bang ''hollow'' on knees, clouds ''unzipped their bellies and let down the snow,'' skin in banyas (bathhouses) looks ''like willow-pattern china'' and wheat fields ''smell like bakery dust.'' We gain entrance, as well, to a realm normally roped off to trespassers: Soviet cybernetics -- the science of control systems. Making Soviet theory sexy, Spufford describes flirtations at the ''Cybernetics Kaffee-klatch'' in Akademgorodok (the Siberian Mecca of Soviet science) and duels over ''irrational pricing'' at a Politburo dacha.
Spufford tells us, in the notes, how often he has ''cheated.'' And yet he has not only researched in the hinterlands but devoured shelffuls of abstruse tomes, everything from ''Factory and Manager in the U.S.S.R.'' (Joseph S. Berliner, Harvard University Press, 1957) to the ''Russian Criminal Tattoo Encyclopedia'' (Steidl, 2004). Who else has parsed the ''potato-/optimizing program'' of the Moscow Regional Planning Agency or delved into ''Building the Svetlogorsk Artificial Fiber Plant'' (Sovetskaya Belorussya, Dec. 2, 1962)? Pity the double vision: the novelist dreaming plotlines while scouring Gosplan statistics till the eyeballs turned red.
But it was worth it. In one memorable scene, we meet the future Nobel Prize-winning economist Leonid Kantorovich in 1938, his mind set spinning by a request from the Plywood Trust of Leningrad to optimize production. What if, he daydreams, ''in the face of the patched and mended cosmos, always crumbling of its own accord, always trying to fall down, it built; it gained 3 percent more of what humanity wanted, free and clear, just as a reward for thought''? And here is Spufford's young believer, Volodya, late of Moscow State University, when a price hike on meat yielded the Soviet Union's most violent postwar strike, in Novocherkassk in 1962. Volodya watches in horror as his bright shining future begins to bleed: ''These bullets were not disappearing into the blue, they were being drilled deliberately into the flesh of the crowd -- which shook, which fissured, which fell apart and revealed that it was made only of the single bodies of men and women and children. A man of 60-/something, gray beard, drinker's cheeks, was turning baffled on the spot just where Volodya was looking, everyone around him lurching into motion. Just where one of his neighbors with the guns was looking too, evidently: the near side of the old man's head caved in, the far side blew out in a geyser of red and gray. A woman holding a baby got the spray in her face and began to scream.''
The endnotes reveal the fault line between fact and fiction. ''The gray-bearded drinker shot in the head is imaginary,'' Spufford writes, but ''the nursing mother sprayed with blood and brains is not.'' The greater point, though, is hit: Who remembers, if they ever knew, about the massacre? Who understood it not as a rare uprising, but as a landmark in the devolution of the dream of plenty?
Throughout, Spufford weaves a command of Soviet science, or pseudoscience, with an understanding of the grease within the machine. A chapter on the travails of an early-1960s tolkach -- the Soviet fixer who, with flowers, perfumes and Black Sea holiday vouchers, matched suppliers and buyers to tally out quotas -- may be his best. ''I make what's supposed to happen, happen,'' Spufford's ace, Chekuskin, says. ''You can call me a purchasing agent, you can call me an expediter, you can be crude and call me a pusher. It's all the same thing. I help things along in the direction the Plan says they should be going. I don't steal. I don't give bribes or take bribes. I persuade the wheels to go round. That's all. Here, have a glass of wine, it's not bad, it's Azerbaijani.''
Beyond the pitch-perfect sales patter lies an unlovely truth that ruined the gleaming Soviet ideal. Even when it functioned -- in the 1950s the U.S.S.R. grew faster, Spufford reminds us, than any other nation in the world, except Japan -- the empire survived on a simple rule: ''Everything Is Personal.'' Chekuskin, who came up peddling pickled herring a century before Facebook, recites the gospel of the Social Network. The system, he says, works only ''because friends look after friends; and when you're with me, you aren't just friends with the people you do business with direct, you're friends with everyone I'm friends with. And that's enough people, I promise you, to solve virtually any problem you may have.''
There are excesses. The dialogue at times sounds wooden, as if cranked through Google Translate. Fusty Sovietologists (yes, the dinosaurs stalk the ether) will doubtless deplore the rare slip. ''Red Plenty,'' too, risks becoming a novel in which ideas are animated and people reduced to abstractions, as Marx would understand. But its author knows better. Emil Shaidullin, a stand-in for Abel Aganbegyan, the reforming economist who rose under Gorbachev, tells himself: ''Just you remember that the world is really sweat and dirt.'' Spufford knows that humanity, even with ''an average degree of duplicity and self-interest,'' will trump any idea, no matter how beautiful.
That truth becomes most evident in the finale. Spufford gives us Khrushchev in retirement, alone at the dacha: '' 'Paradise,' he told the wheat field in baffled fury, 'is a place where people want to end up, not a place they run from. What kind of socialism is that? . . . when you have to keep people in chains?' '' The febrile imaginings of a fantasist? No. The words, though excised from the first editions of his memoirs, of Khrushchev himself. Yes, ''Red Plenty'' is a literary/historical seesaw, a work sure to have even the most bilious Kindle-haters tapping for hyperlinks. But it is a work, by turns learned and lyrical, that grows by degree, accreting into something lasting: a replica in miniature of a world of ideas never visible to most, and now gone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF A SOVIET POSTER FROM SSPL/GETTY IMAGES (1963)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

TITLE: Red Plenty (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



137 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Fee Is Set to Rise

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
INSIDE the interest rate quoted on your home mortgage lies a small hidden fee that has been charged by government-sponsored entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for more than three decades. It's an add-on rate known as the guarantee fee.
An increase in the fee has been mandated by Congress to occur this spring, and other increases are likely later this year and next. When they happen, interest rates on single-family mortgages resold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are likely to inch up as well. 
''It's going to be silently passed through'' by lenders when it does increase, said Richard W. Grohmann, a real estate lawyer in Paramus, N.J.
The G-fee -- as it is known -- does not show up in borrowers' mortgage documents or good-faith estimates, and it is little known outside the industry.
''It gets incorporated into the underlying rate that the borrower pays,'' said Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Fannie Mae.
An interest rate is usually made up of three parts: the largest goes to the bank or the investors who buy the loan; a smaller portion is for the mortgage servicer that collects monthly payments; and then there's the guarantee fee. Fannie and Freddie charge guarantee fees as a form of insurance against default for the loans they acquire and resell to investors.
The G-fee will rise 10 basis points on April 1; the increase was included in the two-month extension of the payroll tax reduction last December. (A basis point is equal to one one-hundredth of 1 percent, or 0.01 percent.)
Keith T. Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a financial publisher in Pompton Plains, N.J., says the increase in the guarantee fee will very likely push up mortgage rates on new loans by one-eighth of a percentage point. ''While it is most common to build the G-fee into the loan's rate, it doesn't have to be done that way,'' he said in an e-mail, noting that some lenders might charge a flat fee instead.
Already, though, loans with interest-rate locks from the last 45 or 60 days have the higher guarantee fee written into them, according to Tom Kelly, the president of Investors Home Mortgage, a division of Investors Bank in Short Hills, N.J. Lenders say they need the extra lead time because it may take time to close the loan, package it and send it on to Fannie or Freddie.
One way to avoid the guarantee fee is to use a lender that does not sell off its loans -- for instance, a community bank or a credit union.
Besides offsetting risks, the fees provide a primary source of revenue for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie, for instance, made $5.6 billion in single-family guarantee-fee income in the first nine months of 2011, a 4.7 percent increase from the 2010 period, according to its quarterly financial statements.
Fannie and Freddie have collected G-fees since the introduction of mortgage-backed securities in the early 1980s. ''It was variable from the start, based on the volume level of loans'' made by the lender, Mr. Kelly said.
Both organizations started raising fee rates in 2008 during the housing crisis, as foreclosure costs rose. G-fees gained modestly in 2010, and also last year.
New single-family loans acquired by Fannie Mae were charged a guarantee fee of 31.1 basis points, on average, in the third quarter of 2011, the most recent period for which data are available. That is six points higher than in the third quarter of 2010. Rates on multifamily loans are 15 to 20 basis points higher than on single-families.
''We expect that single-family guarantee fees will increase in the coming years,'' Fannie Mae said in its third-quarter report to investors, ''although we do not know the timing, form or extent of these increases.''
In a letter to Congress last month, Edward J. DeMarco, the acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, suggested ''continued gradual increases.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); TAX LAW (71%); INFLATION (71%); COMMUNITY BANKS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); INVESTORS BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



138 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THE MIRROR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Farewell to Youth, but Not Beauty

BYLINE: By MARIA RUSSO

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
SHE startled me the other day, walking down Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills: a middle-aged beauty with long, blown-out hair in a shade somewhere between butter and margarine, her body narrow and svelte but large-breasted. She perfectly hit a certain look: gently tanned face as smooth and puffy as the moon in a children's book, a delicate shine to the skin. Nose small, lips pumped up. The space between arched eyebrows a smooth plateau. Her age could have been 40, but then again it could have been 60.
At the beginning of the millennium, this look was all over moneyed New York and the Westside of L.A. Then in 2005 arrived ''The Real Housewives of Orange County'' to take it downmarket, exaggerating its many details until it conveyed not carefree, extended youthfulness but rather a ferocious middle age, a grim determination to throw money at the problem of getting older, via regular trips to dermatologists' offices, hair salons and cosmetic surgeons' operating tables. 
Then came the financial crisis, and even in the high-end ZIP codes the look began to fray. That day in Beverly Hills I realized I hadn't seen a woman sporting this level of the look in quite a while. Granted, I'd moved to proudly unglamorous Pasadena. But still, I wondered, could the type be in its final iteration?
There are other versions of middle-aged beauty visible now: While the Housewives TV franchise was hauling its Botox needles and gallons of filler to more workaday places like Atlanta and New Jersey, the beauty industry -- the beauty industry! -- was broadening the range of middle-aged looks. By 2008 we had Diane ''La-Di-Da'' Keaton and Ellen DeGeneres as faces of L'Oreal and Cover Girl. Once a middle-aged woman could sell cosmetics only if she was an ex-model, an official Aging Beauty like Isabella Rossellini or Andie MacDowell, and even they were airbrushed liberally. But Ellen and Diane are both average-looking people who look their ages. In the ads their makeup looks nice, but what makes them beautiful is just that we love them.
And then on PBS's ''Downton Abbey'' arrived Elizabeth McGovern at 50: If her creased visage peers out at us a little sheepishly, that's because her character is a fish out of water, not because she is apologizing for her lack of access to collagen. With its even more bewitching Dowager Countess, played by Maggie Smith, this is a show that put to rest the idea that women should hold tight to a particular age, a particular look, rather than giving their faces permission to move through the life cycle.
For me this stuff is not just theoretical, because at 45 I'm the advance guard of Gen-X middle age. As our youth peels away, my peers and I are just beginning to admit that we aren't sure how we'll keep looking good. How will we age? We are often called ''quirky.'' My own approach to beauty products no doubt qualifies.
In flusher times, I would buy Dr. Hauschka lotion, because just looking at the old-fashioned minimalist bottle relaxed me, making me think friendly but no-nonsense German people were in charge of my skin care. Surely they knew better than I did what was good for me. When I used their products, I could discern a kind of toned freshness to my skin that, along with the outdoorsy but studiously nonflowery scent, would call to mind a walk in the Alps, or maybe the Black Forest. I also liked Yonka, because the company was French but not in your face, as it were, about its Frenchness. There was a mystery there that drew me in: Why would someone French name a skin-care line so unalluringly?
In my late 30s I decided I needed to use something ''anti-aging'' for the new ''fine lines'' I saw. I looked into the futuristic department store lines whose aqua-green ads coolly promised breathtaking results, but the prices only furrowed my brow further. I wished I could try Retin-A, which I remembered a smooth-skinned 40-year-old woman I worked with in my late 20s swore by, but which you can get only with a prescription from a dermatologist; I avoid doctors besides my OB-GYN religiously. But then I had the idea of using Roc antiwrinkle cream from the drugstore because it has Retinol in it, which sounded appropriately medical. I stuck with that for years, and it seemed to be working O.K., though I periodically wondered if the real, forbidden Retin-A would have packed a much more satisfying punch.
As for makeup, a similar feeling of resignation crept into my routine. At 35 I discovered the Nars Multiple in a rosy brown, a chubby flat-topped obelisk, a combination product that was hands down the best lipstick and the best blush for me. It felt like falling in love, a euphoric thrill followed by a slight backdraft of ennui, because I knew my lipstick and blush explorations were effectively over.
Then two years ago I discovered the cosmetics aisle at T. J. Maxx. This place is the Island of Misfit Toys for beauty products. The very presence of a product there is evidence of a failure, a mistake or at least a disappointment. If I crave something there, I also sort of feel sorry for it. There, seeking beauty also builds acceptance and compassion. Major brands are represented only by their flops. Seemingly ambitious but never-quite-got-there brands with names I have never seen in Allure Sport circa 1997 prices. I ask myself, why is this cream not proudly full price at Sephora? Often the problem seems to be not the product itself, which in my experiences have all worked fine, but the presentation -- a label puzzlingly naked of any graphic design, or a scent that is one millimeter away from Pond's cold cream.
And yet I'd rather use Pond's than whatever it is that the Beverly Hills woman I saw that day joylessly (I imagine) slathers on her face at night. They say every generation naturally inclines toward its grandparents' generation, as a relief from the claustrophobia of the parent-child bond, which is why Gen X has children named Max, Sadie and Henry, and why cold cream seems endearing to me. It makes me think of my own Nanna, a chain-smoking five-foot-tall dynamo who ''put on her face'' every morning at the counter of her Stuyvesant Town kitchen.
In one respect, anyway, we may prove lucky in our timing, in that not just middle age but even old age is losing its beauty stigma just as we say goodbye to our youth. Now there's even Iris Apfel, the beloved 90-year-old former textile magnate and style icon -- and inspiration for a new line at MAC, making her perhaps the oldest woman ever to personally represent a line of beauty products.
That's her gloriously aged face looking forthrightly, unapologetically from the line's publicity photo, which appears in store displays. Her giant round black glasses are charmingly askew. Her lipstick is a tasteful matte orange-red, a shade she's named Scarlet Ibis. On her eyes a greenish-blue shade called Robin's Egg is swathed over a subtle gray lid. Her skin is wrinkly, a little saggy, but somehow bright.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OUT OF HER TEENS: Ellen DeGeneres is a face of Cover Girl. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES)
90-SOMETHING: Iris Apfel is the inspiration for a new MAC line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES)
 A CERTAIN AGE: The actress Diane Keaton is a face of L'Oreal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO E. RODRIGUEZ/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (89%); DERMATOLOGY (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (52%); COSMETICS (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (65%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (65%); OR (BIT) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (65%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



139 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Capital Gains, Ordinary Income and Shades of Gray

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He is advising Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
WHAT is carried interest? And why does it get the tax treatment it does?
These arcane questions are usually reserved for the green-eyeshade crowd. And for good reason: they can be so bewildering that they seem to be taken from an I.Q. test written just for accountants. But because they concern a few very high-income individuals, including the presidential candidate Mitt Romney, for whom I am an adviser, they have been getting broader attention lately. So let's examine the issue.
Throughout almost the entire history of the United States income tax, the tax rate on capital gains has been lower than that on ordinary income. Today, the top rate is 15 percent for capital gains and 35 percent for ordinary income. There are good reasons for this -- including, for example, the fact that capital gains are not indexed for inflation. But put that aside. If we are going to tax capital gains at a lower rate, one question necessarily arises: What is a capital gain, and how can we distinguish it from ordinary income? 
The answer seems simple. If you have a job, the money you are paid for your work is ordinary income. If you buy an asset at one time and sell it later for a higher price, the profit you made from holding it is a capital gain.
But is it really that easy? Consider five examples, and see if you can identify what is ordinary income and what is a capital gain:
Abe buys a vacation home for his family for $800,000. Some years later, when his children have grown and left home, he sells it for $1 million. He makes $200,000.
Bob is a real estate investor. After scouring the market for the best investment opportunities, he buys a house for $800,000 that he believes is undervalued. A few years later, he sells it at $1 million, for a profit of $200,000.
Carl is a real estate investor and a carpenter. He buys a dilapidated house for $800,000. After spending his weekends fixing it up, he sells it a couple of years later for $1 million. Once again, the profit is $200,000.
Dan is a real estate investor and a carpenter, but he is short of capital. He approaches his friend, Ms. Moneybags, and they become partners. Together, they buy a dilapidated house for $800,000 and sell it later for $1 million. She puts up the money, and he spends his weekends fixing up the house. They divide the $200,000 profit equally.
Earl is a carpenter. Ms. Moneybags buys a dilapidated house for $800,000 and hires Earl to fix it up. After paying Earl $100,000 for his services, Ms. Moneybags sells the home for $1 million, for a profit of $100,000.
How much capital gains and ordinary income do we attribute to Abe, Bob, Carl, Dan and Earl? (To keep things simple, assume that Ms. Moneybags is untaxed. Think of her as running a pension fund or university endowment.)
Let's take the easy cases first. It seems clear that Abe has a capital gain. His profit of $200,000 comes from simply holding an asset over time. And it seems equally clear that Earl's $100,000 is ordinary income. He is being paid for providing his services.
But between these cases, the situation gets murky. Bob and Carl are being rewarded in part for the time they spend, but the tax law treats both as having earned entirely capital gains. The tax code does not count the time that Bob spent looking for investments as employment and his gain as taxable labor compensation, even though some of it arguably is. Nor does it try to tax Carl's sweat equity as labor compensation.
This brings us to Dan and his partnership with Ms. Moneybags. The tax law treats this partnership as exactly equivalent to Carl's situation. In this case, however, the $200,000 capital gain is divided into halves: some of it goes to Ms. Moneybags, who provided the cash, and some goes to Dan, who provided the sweat equity. Once again, nothing is treated as ordinary income.
In some ways, this treatment makes sense. After all, Dan is doing half of what Carl did, so why should he have to pay a higher tax rate than Carl did on that half of his income? On the other hand, it seems that Dan is getting off easy. Dan does not seem very different from Earl, because both are getting $100,000 for fixing up the house.
If these examples leave your head spinning, you are not alone. Economists and tax lawyers who study these issues are unsure about the best way to handle these situations in practice.
Here is where carried interest enters the picture. Carried interest from a private equity partnership is like the income that Dan earns from his real estate partnership. In this case, however, Dan is not a carpenter but a specialist in business turnarounds. The partnership does not buy dilapidated houses to fix up and sell; it buys troubled businesses to fix up and sell. And just as Dan the carpenter can treat his share of the partnership income as a capital gain, Dan the business specialist can do the same.
Critics of current law think it is unfair that these private equity partners are taxed at capital gains rates, whereas other high-income individuals like doctors and lawyers pay the much higher tax rates for ordinary income. It is a reasonable point, and some reform may well be appropriate. But as the tax situations of Abe through Earl illustrate, it is not obvious what the best approach would be. Not all problems have easy answers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE AUSTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



140 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Companies Foreclose; Blight Follows

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Every few weeks, Alvin Chandra cleans up the garbage that has accumulated in the vacant lot next to his granite fabrication plant on Adeline Street in West Oakland -- soiled mattresses, worn-out sofa beds and piles of used fast food containers.
''We're constantly painting over the graffiti on our wall,'' said Mr. Chandra, 47, pointing to the long flat exterior of his building that abuts the vacant lot. ''It's hard to make a good impression on clients when there's a pile of trash in front of your building.'' 
The trash-strewn lot is owned by Fannie Mae. The government-controlled mortgage company acquired the property after a foreclosure on the previous owner last June. With the housing bust and continued recession, Fannie Mae, and its counterpart Freddie Mac, have quietly become major residential landowners in the Bay Area's hardest-hit neighborhoods.
According to data from Foreclosure Radar.com, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now own 2,323 properties in the Bay Area worth an estimated $511 million. Like the vacant lot on Adeline Street, many are blighted, covered in trash, with overgrown lawns, junk cars, chipped paint and broken windows.
In Oakland, where Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own 371 properties with an estimated value of $70 million, city officials inspected 142 homes and apartment buildings owned by the companies last year and found that nearly half of them violated the city's blight ordinance. The two firms were fined $123,300 after they failed to fix problems quickly at nine of the properties.
Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Fannie Mae in Washington, said the fact that most violations were quickly resolved after being identified by city officials showed ''we are absolutely committed to stabilizing neighborhoods.''
Mr. Wilson said Fannie Mae spent $2.7 million to repair 529 homes in San Francisco and East Bay last year. ''If there's a code violation or a maintenance issue, we try to address it as quickly as possible,'' he said.
But local government officials and community activists say the government-backed companies could do more to maintain their properties and keep neighborhoods from falling into decline. In December, Attorney General Kamala D. Harris of California sued Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in San Francisco Superior Court after lawyers from the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage companies, refused to provide a list of Fannie Mae- and Freddie Mac-owned properties that have allegedly been used for drug dealing and prostitution.
''The enterprises do not have systems in place to retrieve such information,'' Ashim Varma, a lawyer, wrote to Ms. Harris's office on behalf of the agency. ''These properties are managed by over 500 local contractors who are brokers and property managers.''
Margaretta Lin, who oversees Oakland's foreclosure mitigation efforts, said both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had been ''very cooperative'' in fixing violations when they were pointed out, but added that Oakland had not been able to inspect a Fannie Mae- or Freddie Mac-owned property since last November.
''We really need the banks to inspect and maintain their properties on their own,'' Ms. Lin said.
Outside the vacant lot on Adeline Street, Mr. Chandra said the only way to mitigate the blight was for Fannie Mae to sell the property quickly so it could be reused.
For years, Mr. Chandra said, a Victorian house had sat on the property, but in recent years it had fallen into disrepair, set upon by squatters and burned in a series of fires. Last September, three months after Fannie Mae took ownership of the property, the city of Oakland demolished the structure and put a fence around it.
The property carried $382,000 in debt when it was foreclosed on last year. It is currently for sale for $76,000, but Mr. Chandra believes even that is too high.
''It makes me angry because if they lowered the price, I would buy it and take care of it,'' Mr. Chandra said. ''As it is, it just sits there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAWYERS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); PROPERTY LAW (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); ORDINANCES (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); CITIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



141 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
THE YEAR WE LEFT HOME, by Jean Thompson (Simon & Schuster, $15.) A Midwestern family struggles for economic and emotional stability in Thompson's warmhearted novel. Over the course of 30 years, the Ericksons -- including Ryan, who longs to escape his rural roots, and his sister Anita, for whom marriage and motherhood became traps more than prizes -- weather the aftermath of war, farm foreclosures and bittersweet homecomings. 
THE MAGNETIC NORTH: Notes From the Arctic Circle, by Sara Wheeler (North Point/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) Fifteen years after Wheeler braved Antarctica in ''Terra Incognita,'' she tours Siberia, Alaska, Canada, Greenland and the White Sea to ''shed some dim light on the enigmas of the Arctic.'' Amid the region's raw beauty she finds a poorly regulated zone where cultures are exploited and left stranded between tradition and modernity.
THE EVOLUTION OF BRUNO LITTLEMORE, by Benjamin Hale (Twelve, $14.99.) Hale's audacious first novel is the bildungsroman of Bruno, a chimpanzee who learns the ways and words of Homo sapiens and ends up imprisoned for a crime of passion. Along the way, he becomes an experimental test subject, a painter and a Shakespearean actor. ''Stuffed with allusions high and low, so rich with philosophical and literary interest, . . . 'The Evolution of Bruno Littlemore' is an absolute pleasure,'' Christopher R. Beha wrote here.
PLAY THEIR HEARTS OUT: A Coach, His Star Recruit, and the Youth Basketball Machine, by George Dohrmann (Ballantine, $16.) Immersing himself for eight years in the lives of an Amateur Athletic Union coach and his players, Dohrmann, a senior writer for Sports Illustrated, reveals a cutthroat world in which teenage boys are treated as rising stars one moment and disposable instruments the next.
THE STORYTELLER OF MARRAKESH, by Joydeep Roy-Bhattacharya (Norton, $15.95.) Hassan, the ''storyteller'' of this lively novel, is a chronicler of Moroccan legend and lore. Gathering listeners in Marrakesh's central square, he teases out the tale of a foreign couple who vanished from the square one night years earlier.
TOWNIE: A Memoir, by Andre Dubus III (Norton, $15.95.) This charged memoir details Dubus's 1970s coming-of-age in the poor mill towns of Massachusetts. Dubus, the author of ''House of Sand and Fog,'' finds common ground with his father, a well-known writer, though it was his parents' divorce that left him and his siblings to a life of poverty and violence.
THE GIRL WHO KICKED THE HORNET'S NEST, by Stieg Larsson. Translated by Reg Keeland (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard, $9.99 and $15.95.) In the last novel of Larsson's pulse-racing posthumous trilogy, the fiercely defiant Swedish hacker Lisbeth Salander is in a hospital, fighting for her life, while a political conspiracy jeopardizes not only her freedom but the country's very Constitution.
TRIUMPH OF THE CITY: How Our Greatest Invention Makes Us Richer, Smarter, Greener, Healthier, and Happier, by Edward Glaeser (Penguin, $16.) Glaeser, a Harvard economist, travels through history and around the globe to explain the hidden workings of cities and the role of urban density in fostering human achievement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (86%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (86%); LITERATURE (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); YOUTH SPORTS (69%); AMATEUR SPORTS (69%); PRIMATES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARCTIC (72%); GREENLAND (72%); ANTARCTICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



142 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: Venerated High Priest And Humble Servant Of Music Education

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela
AS he slowly walked through the adoring and bubbling crowd of young people, the frail elderly man brushed a cheek, clasped an arm, bestowed a smile. He lingered affectionately with members of a choir composed of disabled youngsters.
For anyone who observed Pope John Paul II in action amid third-world crowds during the later years of his papacy, it was a familiar sight: the charisma, the smiles, the contrast of stooped holy man and spirited youngsters, the solicitousness for the weak.
But on this February day at the Teresa Carreno Theater here, the center of attention was not a pope. It was Jose Antonio Abreu, the founder and influential leader of a classical music education program called El Sistema. Mr. Abreu was showing off some of its orchestras to visiting Americans in an elaborately choreographed showcase.
The endless explorations of El Sistema, in articles, documentaries and books, give little attention to one of its more striking aspects: a similarity to organized religion and, more specifically, the Roman Catholic Church. 
Venezuela is not especially a deeply Catholic country, and El Sistema's top rank of musicians do not display piety. But through the influence of Mr. Abreu, who professes deep religious devotion, the trappings of a church have emerged, even if the similarities are only a question of atmospherics. It is possible to extrapolate that a good part of El Sistema's success is due to these trappings, or at least to the single-minded focus on spreading the gospel of social action through music.
El Sistema absorbs hundreds of thousands of young Venezuelans into orchestras and other ensembles, providing intensive musical training as an antidote to the ills of poverty, an enveloping reality in this country despite its oil wealth.
Founded in 1975, El Sistema has in recent years also begun producing a generation of talented musicians now competing on the international stage. Classical music educators, administrators and professional players around the world have clutched at its mantle, forming alliances with the movement, establishing Sistema-inspired music programs and engaging its top orchestras and their conductors.
Mr. Abreu is referred to by his loyalists as a father, a saint, a visionary, a philosopher or, most often, simply as maestro. There is a foundational story: his gathering of 11 young musicians in a garage in 1975 to start the whole project. Most of those founders, as they are called, have stayed with the organization or gone on to run parts of it with apostolic devotion. Its ranks are self-perpetuating: talented alumni inevitably go on to run music centers, called nucleos, or teach at them.
''El Sistema is a way of life for hundreds of thousands of people in Venezuela, the region and, I can say, the world,'' said Maria Guinand, a Venezuelan choral conductor who works with Sistema orchestras.
Followers often tell stories of how Mr. Abreu came to them with special assignments, plucking them up and giving them jobs to do or nucleos to run, like a posting in a poor parish for young priests. He is said to dictate career moves among the top echelon of musicians.
El Sistema has its musical scripture: Tchaikovsky's ''1812'' and the finale of his Symphony No. 4; the ''Hallelujah'' chorus from Handel's ''Messiah''; Venezuela's unofficial national anthem, ''Alma Llanera''; and other core works that the student orchestras play in arrangements at varying levels of difficulty.
Mr. Abreu and his inner circle are persistent evangelizers for El Sistema, proclaiming its advocacy of social justice with the zeal of missionaries. Mr. Abreu travels the world, touring with the program's top orchestras, visiting similar programs, receiving honors, often meeting with other music educators and administrators.
''It's important that our principle of action be known not only in Venezuela but in Latin America and the world at large,'' he said in an interview last month. ''We need to be messengers,'' he said, of the ''social mission of art.''
He added, ''I've dedicated all my efforts to have the poorest, the ones most excluded, have access to musical education.''
Sitting slightly hunched in a leather chair in a tiny Sistema office here Mr. Abreu granted an audience to reporters, who were ushered in one by one for about 20 minutes each. His right-hand man, Rodrigo Guerrero, who oversees international affairs and institutional development, fluently translated Mr. Abreu's flowing sentences. Wearing his ever-present gray wool overcoat, Mr. Abreu gesticulated expressively and showed no sign of flagging despite the long morning.
He called El Sistema an antidote to violence. ''So when we perform abroad, we are messengers of peace but also for social justice,'' he said. He was unperturbed when it was pointed out that Venezuela has become one of the most violent societies in the world. Violence is a global problem, he said: ''Orchestras and choirs are incredibly effective instruments against violence.''
Moments later Mr. Abreu imparted one of the aphorisms that are often repeated: ''The most holy of human rights is the right to art.''
Mr. Abreu, 73, has degrees in keyboard and composition, and he studied conducting. He followed a parallel career as an economist and served in past governments as a member of Parliament, an economic adviser and a culture minister.
An official history of El Sistema calls him its ''soul and guiding light.'' He is unmarried and lives what many call an ascetic life completely devoted to the program. In comments quoted in the history, ''Venezuela Bursting With Orchestras,'' Mr. Abreu describes himself as a deeply devout Catholic and calls himself ''a priest, a humble servant of Jesus Christ'' who aspires to be ''an ideal, noble and invincible servant of God.''
Mr. Abreu runs El Sistema with aspects of a society-improving religious cult, said one Venezuelan who has known him for decades. ''The ones that are converted think of him as a saint,'' said this person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid jeopardizing their relationship. ''The ones that are not converted think of him as a very incredible man that has created this institution that has a lot of merit, but they do not see him as a saint, because they have felt his whip. When there are saints, there is no room for dissidents.''
A rising Sistema conducting talent, Joshua Dos Santos, acknowledged that Mr. Abreu has to show strictness and force of character for El Sistema to thrive. ''He is the father,'' Mr. Dos Santos said. ''We are all his children.''
Another Venezuelan who has long known Mr. Abreu, Moises Naim, a frequent commentator on national affairs, attributed the adulation for Mr. Abreu to pride in a country whose main claims to fame are oil, beauty queens and baseball players. ''This is a country that has had a long string of failures, and then here comes a smashing success,'' Mr. Naim said.
Much of the success is due to Mr. Abreu's savvy at maneuvering through successive governments, including the current rule of Hugo Chavez, the populist president who has placed El Sistema under his office and cites it as an exemplar of his ''Bolivarian revolution.'' Some critics of Mr. Chavez have found fault with Mr. Abreu for what they consider excessive coziness with the Chavez government. Mr. Abreu rejected the notion.
''I've never felt any pressure of a political character,'' he said.
Given Mr. Abreu's grip on El Sistema, the question of succession has arisen. Supporters feel sure he has a plan, and some suggest Gustavo Dudamel, his protege and El Sistema's music director, will take on a greater role. Mr. Abreu said El Sistema will remain strong because of the presence of a generation of experienced leaders and expressed confidence that the executive director, Eduardo Mendez, his hand-picked administrator, would be able to carry on. ''He's a true social and artistic manager of the highest quality,'' he said.
Foreign visitors who come through Venezuela to see El Sistema in action are often captivated. Mr. Abreu's operation in Caracas is a well-oiled machine when it comes to welcoming outsiders.
The effort was on full view last month, when the Los Angeles Philharmonic came for a week of concerts under the leadership of Mr. Dudamel, who is El Sistema's best-known product and is famous in his own right in Venezuela. The connection has produced close ties between the Philharmonic and El Sistema. The orchestra's president, Deborah Borda, is a firm convert and has become one of El Sistema's most prominent American boosters.
Los Angeles musicians, between rehearsals and concerts, visited El Sistema's main rehearsal and teaching center to give master classes, traveling in buses under close police and private-guard supervision because of Caracas's pervasive crime.
At many of the master classes Sistema students put on spectacular displays of talent, rehearsed to within an inch of their lives. Part of El Sistema's philosophy is to expose youngsters to constant performance from the earliest years.
Toward the end of the visit the orchestra as a whole, staff members, patrons and members of the news media were treated to a series of performances, by a brass ensemble, choruses and orchestras at the Teresa Carreno Theater complex. Each orchestra seemed to grow larger, with the biggest numbering 640 members. They played with extravagant precision and almost scary intensity, not to mention volume. All the parts were memorized.
''We are simply overwhelmed,'' Ms. Borda told Mr. Abreu and the young Venezuelan performers. ''You have worked a miracle, and we are so honored and humble to be a part of it.''
Lavishly financed by the government, El Sistema has 280 centers around Venezuela and 310,000 students. It counts roughly 500 orchestras and other ensembles.
Mr. Abreu has relentlessly sought to keep it growing. The Inter-American Development Bank has granted Venezuela a $150 million loan to help pay for regional centers around the country. Plans are moving ahead to expand El Sistema's new central structure in Caracas, including the addition of two concert halls. Frank Gehry has been asked to design a center and hall in Barquisimeto, a city about 220 miles west of Caracas and the hometown of Mr. Abreu and Mr. Dudamel. The internationally known acoustician Yasuhisa Toyota will work on both projects, Sistema officials said.
Meanwhile El Sistema's influence on the international classical music scene is expanding. The conducting career of Mr. Dudamel, El Sistema's star graduate, is growing by leaps and bounds. He has eight CDs on Deutsche Grammophon, mainly leading El Sistema's flagship Simon Bolivar Symphony orchestra; seven iTunes releases with the Los Angeles Philharmonic; and at least nine more recording projects planned for the next few years.
Other Sistema conductors are taking on jobs outside Venezuela. Last year Diego Matheuz was named principal conductor of the Fenice opera in Venice and Christian Vasquez, chief conductor of the Stavanger Symphony Orchestra in Norway.
Most symbolically important, El Sistema's flagship orchestra, the Simon Bolivar Symphony, has dropped the word ''youth'' from its name, a sign of its maturity and professionalization. The new group for teenagers, the Teresa Carreno Youth Orchestra, is represented by Askonas Holt, a major British artist management company, for tours. A Simon Bolivar String Quartet has been formed and is also recording with Deutsche Grammophon.
But in the tradition of El Sistema, the newly minted stars stay closely connected to the mother ship, returning often to conduct and teach.
''We can have external careers as conductors, but we will always go home to support El Sistema,'' said Manuel Lopez-Gomez, a Sistema podium talent with a budding international career. ''It's something ethical. We have to help the next generation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jose Antonio Abreu, above, founder of El Sistema, a Venezuelan music education program, and right, with Gustavo Dudamel and Deborah Borda, both of the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
From left, Mr. Abreu after a performance
Manuel Lopez-Gomez, a conductor, with Mr. Dudamel
 and Alejandro Carreno, of the Simon Bolivar Symphony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (88%); THEATER (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



143 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Poisoned in Body and Spirit

BYLINE: By FLOYD SKLOOT. 
Floyd Skloot's 16th book, the story collection ''Cream of Kohlrabi,'' was published in September.

 BODY:
THE MERCURY FOUNTAIN
By Eliza Factor
312 pp. Akashic Books. Paper, $15.95.
Eliza Factor's first novel, ''The Mercury Fountain,'' explores what happens when a life driven by ideology confronts implacable truths of science and human nature. It also shows how leaders can inflict damage by neglecting the real needs of real people. Though the action takes place between 1900 and 1923, the resonances feel alarmingly contemporary.
The setting is Pristina, an imaginary utopian community 10 miles from the Rio Grande in southwestern Texas. Its founder, the New Englander Owen Scraperton, envisions people of any race, background or economic circumstance working together for a common purpose. That this purpose turns out to be the mining of mercury suggests where Owen, a messianic figure equal parts preacher and cult leader, will lead his followers. 
''Mr. Scraperton believes that mercury has mystical properties and that the mining of it is good for the Soul,'' one resident observes. Owen buys the community a mercury fountain -- a steel chalice holding a writhing, devilish display of the element known as quicksilver -- and when he speaks of mercury, the look in his eyes is ''the look of an adolescent describing his first love, that gleam, that irrevocable faith in its beauty and goodness.''
Owen also believes people will abide by the principles of clarity, unity and purpose upon which he conceived Pristina. Clarity will let them apprehend natural law, and to achieve it they will give up alcohol, tobacco, gambling, superstition. Unity will move them beyond racial or ethnic identity, turning each into ''a Pristinian, a Unified Man, inherently suited to his Labor.'' And labor, ''the key to a unified society,'' will provide the ''bridge to the Future.'' Suffering from difficult economic times, people sign on to work the mines. But few buy into the principles.
Owen delivers stirring speeches while paying his workers in chits rather than cash, and marries the beautiful Dolores, an impoverished but aristocratic Mexican who assumes he is rich. In the novel's urgent opening, Dolores endures protracted labor while a local boy descends into the terrifying heart of the mining operation to summon Owen to her bedside. There are no easy, safe, natural events in ''The Mercury Fountain.''
Unfortunately for Owen, as for his family and followers, mercury is ferociously toxic, good for neither the soul nor the body. When illness spreads and the mercury market fails, Pristina's principles crumble. As Owen grows desperate and sick, his marriage destabilizes and his relationship with his beloved daughter suffers.
The novel's plot and mood are familiar, predictable until an operatic conclusion that involves snakes and fire and general mayhem. Fiction about mining has a long tradition -- Emile Zola's ''Germinal'' and Upton Sinclair's ''King Coal'' come to mind -- and most readers will be aware of the industry's harsh conditions. There is also a long tradition of utopian fiction to prepare us for Pristina's fate. But Factor counters convention with a sharp sense of character, evocative subplots and the dangerous allure of mercury itself: ''A silver droplet wiggled on the palm of his hand. They had called it living silver in the Middle Ages. Quicksilver now. Silver endowed with the quick of life.''
Across the novel's two decades, Owen and Dolores follow an erratic path toward marital accommodation, and their ''ridiculously precocious'' daughter demonstrates a surprising blend of her parents' strengths and weaknesses. Secondary characters, hauntingly affected by events, underscore Factor's point that unyielding ideals cannot guide or govern.
''Owen was enamored, enamored,'' we are told. ''He admitted the dangers of the mercuries of Almaden and Konia, but his mercury, Pristinite Mercury, was different. Pristinite Mercury only damaged those whose wills wavered, whose constitutions were somehow corrupt. The good and the virtuous it left alone, or even, somehow, benefited.''
This is the mind of madness. Science trumps magical thinking: there was a reason the Incas called their mercury mine ''la mina de los muertos,'' the mine of the dead. Building a life and a community upon principles that ignore such realities is doomed to fail. ''The Mercury Fountain'' shows this with terrible clarity and purpose.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF ELIZA FACTOR BY KATE MILFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POISONINGS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MERCURY MARKETS (73%); MINOR METALS MARKETS (73%); MINES & MINING (69%); CULTS & SECTS (68%); MARRIAGE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Mercury Fountain, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



144 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: 0.2% Interest? You Bet We'll Complain

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
STOP your bellyaching.
That was the message delivered last Thursday to Americans who today make almost nothing on the savings in their bank accounts.
It came from Sarah Bloom Raskin, an insider at the Federal Reserve. Ms. Raskin, one of the governors on the Fed board, made the usual disclaimer that her comments reflected her own thinking. But Fed watchers said her remarks probably mirrored views inside the central bank.
The issue -- as anyone looking for income-producing investments knows -- is that the Fed drove down interest rates to almost zero to shore up big banks and an economy that those banks helped drive off a cliff. Now savers, who did nothing to create the financial crisis, are being punished. 
This is one of the more troubling paradoxes of the Fed's rescue of the financial system. And, according to Ms. Raskin, it is likely to continue for some time.
So suck it up, America: If it's good for the financial system, it's good for you.
Yes, Ms. Raskin, who delivered her message during a speech in Westport, Conn., nodded at how low rates put pressure on savers. But she quickly extolled the advantages that rock-bottom rates offer to ordinary Americans.
''Many households are benefiting from the low level of interest rates, and some critics of the Federal Reserve's accommodative monetary policy seem to minimize this point,'' Ms. Raskin said, according to prepared remarks posted on the Fed's Web site. ''Purchases of motor vehicles and other household durables can be financed more cheaply, and in many cases, households have been able to refinance their mortgages into lower-rate loans, freeing up income for other uses.''
APPARENTLY, Ms. Raskin hasn't tried to refinance a home mortgage lately. I have, and the process was labyrinthine, glacial and exasperating. Putting potential borrowers through the wringer is a bank's prerogative, and I have no interest in returning to the days of E-Z Loans ''R'' Us.
But the idea that legions of people have been able to refinance their mortgages recently is a bit optimistic. The credit scores associated with the mortgage I refinanced were around 800, the loan was for only about 30 percent of the property's value, and no equity was taken out of the property. Given this experience, it seems clear that troubled borrowers -- including those who are underwater on mortgages and who most need assistance -- are least likely to receive it.
Walker F. Todd, a research fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research and a former assistant general counsel and research officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said Ms. Raskin should know better about the toll Fed policy is taking on savers.
''She blithely assumes that everyone who could refinance their mortgages at current interest rates has done so,'' Mr. Todd said. ''She ignores effects of credit scoring and outrageous fees banks are charging for those refinancings. I invite anyone who will accompany me to visit the local branch of any bank in Cleveland and to inquire about what is required exactly to be able to refinance at the currently advertised rates.''
Ms. Raskin is a former commissioner for financial regulation in Maryland and has also spent time as a managing director at the Promontory Financial Group, a regulatory consulting firm in Washington. On Friday, when I asked for an on-the-record interview with her, a spokeswoman said she was not available.
In her remarks in Westport, however, Ms. Raskin played down the effects of low rates on investors. She said that less than 7 percent of household assets were held directly in certificates of deposit, savings bonds and the like. ''Instead, the bulk of household wealth is held in stocks, retirement accounts, business equity and real estate,'' she said. ''For these other types of assets, rates of return depend primarily on the strength of the economy and how fast the economy is growing. Thus, these returns should be supported, over time, by the accommodative monetary policy that we have in place.''
But the 7 percent figure cited by Ms. Raskin comes from data collected between 1998 and 2007, before the crisis hit. With housing prices still declining, consumers' home equity holdings have collapsed. Meanwhile, it's a good guess that the percentage of household assets in safe-haven accounts has risen.
Considering the Fed's plans to keep interest rates near zero through late 2014, it looks as if this policy will wind up being in place for six years. That's a mighty long drought for savers. But in Ms. Raskin's view, it's a small price to pay for a sound economy.
The Fed has been following this plan for more than three years now. Yes, we are seeing some improvements here and there. But the transfer of wealth from savers' pockets has been immense. And with the price of gasoline and other goods going up, the vise is tightening.
''We are rapidly approaching a situation,'' Mr. Todd said, ''where Congress and the administration are unwilling to confront bankers on the need of thoroughgoing reform of everything involving household finance and credit reporting/credit scoring because it would cost the bankers money to do so.'' The big banks, meanwhile, complain bitterly about regulation, but don't mention how regulation might have helped mute the crisis.
''Our policy makers do need to think about what we are transferring to the banks,'' Mr. Todd said. ''Why is the public obligated to provide them with all those subsidies? Nobody will ask these questions.''
And that's a crying shame.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Fall in Home Equity: Home equity peaked in the last quarter of 2005, but now makes up a smaller share of U.S. households' assets than stocks. (Source: Federal Reserve)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); LAWYERS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



145 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, March 4th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 4, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February 18, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList192VOW, by Kim and Krickitt Carpenter with Dana Wilkerson. (B&#38;H Publishing Group) After a horrific car crash, a couple embark on a journey to fall in love all over again. The true events that inspired the movie. 21UNORTHODOX, by Deborah Feldman. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman breaks free of the Satmar Hasidic community in Brooklyn in which she was raised. 3356HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 4417STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 512ONCE UPON A SECRET, by Mimi Alford. (Random House Publishing) A former White House intern recounts her affair with John F. Kennedy. 667AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy SEALs with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 7856UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his bomber went down over the Pacific. 81121KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts one of the most consequential episodes of American history: the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 922BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House Publishing) A journalist reports on families striving for better lives in a Mumbai slum. 10134QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 11122BRINGING UP B&#201;B&#201;, by Pamela Druckerman. (Penguin Group) An American mother discovers the principles of French parenting. 121THAT WOMAN, by Anne Sebba. (St. Martin&#39;s Press) The life of Wallis Warfield Simpson, for whom Edward VIII gave up his throne. 131546BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 141615CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 151927AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 161841IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 172056THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 1872ALI IN WONDERLAND, by Ali Wentworth. (HarperCollins Publishers) A memoir from the comedian and actress. 1952HILARITY ENSUES, by Tucker Max. (Blue Heeler Books) More stories from a life of serial debauchery. 20175AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) A talk-show host surveys the history of utopias and warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 212417THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 22223COMING APART, by Charles Murray. (Crown Publishing) The author of &#8220;The Bell Curve&#8221; explores the state of white America, 1960-2010, and deplores the growing gulf in values between the new upper and the new lower class. 23142LIFE AS I BLOW IT, by Sarah Colonna. (Random House Publishing) The &#8220;Chelsea Lately&#8221; writer tells her story. 242316WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) A memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse beginning in first grade and continuing for years. 25102HIDING FROM REALITY, by Taylor Armstrong. (Gallery Books) A star of &#34;The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills&#34; describes domestic abuse during her childhood and marriage.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. FULL SERVICE, by Scotty Bowers with Lionel Friedberg. (Grove/Atlantic)
27. ENEMIES, by Tim Weiner. (Random House Publishing)
28. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
29. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing)
30. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
32. FAIRY TALE INTERRUPTED, by RoseMarie Terenzio. (Gallery Books)
33. ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House Publishing)
34. LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
35. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); HISTORY (66%); RELIGION (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); ARMED FORCES (61%)

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (53%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



146 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: The One-Page Magazine

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF, MATT BAI, TOM VANDERBILT, ADAM LEFF, RICHARD RUSHFIELD, DAVID SAX, JOHN HODGMAN, GREG VEIS, ELIOT GLAZER, TYLER COWEN, MAUD NEWTON, HOPE REEVES, LIZZIE SKURNICK, WILL SHORTZ, BENOIT DENIZET-LEWIS, HOPE REEVES, MARNIE HANEL and JERRY SPRINGER

 BODY:
THE BIG PROFILE
JOHN C. REILLY
John C. Reilly humbly suggests that there is a secret behind his ability to intimidate as the short-tempered husband in ''Carnage.'' ''All that really matters is the size of your head,'' he says. ''If you have a small head, people think you're small. If you have a big head, they can't quite tell how big you are.'' In truth, Reilly is more like the gentle giants he portrayed in ''Boogie Nights'' and ''Cyrus.'' ''I don't walk through the world like Paul Bunyan,'' he says. ''I'm 6-foot-2, but you'd find me approachable, I hope.''
FROZEN CLAM WATER FOR THE SOUL 
Nowadays we have chicken-noodle soup and echinacea, but we've lost the art of ''Food and Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent,'' Fannie Farmer's proudest achievement. As Robin Bellinger observes in The Paris Review, some offerings -- ''frozen clam water, milk with a wee drop of diluted hydrochloric acid as a treatment for typhoid'' -- flummox the modern palate. But would any invalid reject a heart-shaped bread-and-butter sandwich?
PAWS AND REFLECTS
The Twitter feed @dogsdoingthings, by Clayton Lamar and Patrick Carr, has nearly 9,000 followers who delight in imagining dogs presiding over a dying Earth. Or something like that. (A sample: ''Dogs holding out a map showing the whole history of your desire and casually tossing it at your feet, sneering 'disgusting.' '') ''We only have a few rules,'' Lamar says. ''Dogs can't do dog things, and dogs can't retweet.''
WASHINGTON MONUMENTS
TAKE ME HOME, COUNTRY ROADS
If Mitt Romney or Rick Santorum wins the G.O.P. nomination, either will be faced with an unusual challenge: winning his own state. Massachusetts last went Republican in 1984; Pennsylvania hasn't turned red since 1988. Only two presidents in the last century, Woodrow Wilson and Richard Nixon, managed to win while losing their home states. (And that's if you count Nixon as a New Yorker.) The last nominee to lose on his own turf was Al Gore, and we know how that turned out.
NOT HOT, NOT NOT, JUST MEH
THE MEH LIST
Shower liners
Gavin DeGraw
The number 452
Democratic analysts on Fox News
Sears catalogs
''Zing!''
Fat-free cream cheese
Additional reporting by Samantha Henig
WHAT WE THINK
WIN, LOSE OR DRINK
Watching a soccer match in a partisan pub, I saw the bar swell when the favored team drew even. I wondered: Do fans drink more when their teams win? Or is there a ''drown your sorrows'' effect? Jason Lindo, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Oregon, co-wrote a study that found male students' G.P.A.'s declined when the home team won, partly because ''20 to 30 percent of students,'' he says, ''reported drinking more when the U.O. football team wins.'' The last three seasons, the Ducks are 34-6.
TOO COOL FOR CLASSIFICATION?
After examining 200 college students' Facebook pages over four years, a Harvard study has officially defined ''hipsters'' as having uniquely refined tastes that their friends don't share. As the lead researcher put it, ''If I like the Decemberists and suddenly my friends start liking them too . . . I will run off in search of some new band to express my 'hip' identity.'' This seems less specific than urbandictionary.com, which describes the group as young people who ''drink cheap beer . . . and eat children's cereal.''
IT'S HAPPENING IN CANADA
When the celebrity chef David Chang opens the first Toronto outposts of his Momofuku chain this year, he will ignite an unofficial battle over who is the best chef in Canada named David Chang. This being Canada, however, tempers are cool. ''He's kind of the reason I got into cooking,'' says David Chang, a chef at the restaurant Yours Truly, who recently completed an internship at Momofuku in Manhattan, where he met his more famous namesake. New York's Chang says he vaguely remembers the meetingbut notes, ''I won't be searching to lop his head off'' a la ''Highlander.'' ''Daddy Boulud is gonna be in Toronto, too. That's who we will be sabotaging.''
VERY SHORT REVIEWS
The Escape Artists: How Obama's Team Fumbled the Recovery, by Noam Scheiber: Critique from the left.
@economistmeg, @YanniKouts: To follow Greece.
BRAIN TWISTER BY WILL SHORTZ
The name of what U.S. city, when spelled in lowercase letters, is a verb meaning ''to bewilder''?
Hint: Herman Cain is not a U.S. city!
For answer, see bottom left.
Brain Twister Answer: Buffalo.
ASK JUDGE JOHN HODGMAN
TIFFANY WRITES: My husband insists on wearing Vibram FiveFingers shoes, and not just for running -- around the house, to the store and occasionally to work. Every time he puts them on, a little bit of the magic dies. I think they need to be destroyed!
I appreciate these kinds of shoes in running. But I can't abide their use in normal, sedentary life. You are basically saying that you don't agree with civilization but are too cowardly to simply go barefoot. Trumping all is this: If your wife finds something you do unattractive and is willing to tell you so in a magazine, you should honor her candor.
Submit questions for adjudication at maximumfun.org/jjho.
THAT SHOULD BE A WORD
(GRUH-MAN-DOH), N., ADJ.
1. One who constantly corrects others' linguistic mistakes. ''Cowed by his grammando wife, Arthur finally ceased saying 'irregardless.' '' See also: Dictaplinarian (enforces correct pronunciation); Spellot (takes a red pen to all documents).
HOW TO RESOLVE A FAMILY FEUD
First, don't ever come on my show. Second, remind yourself that you don't want to end up on my show. My advice: Ask yourself, ''I don't want to wind up on his show, so what can I do to change my behavior?'' As told to Spencer Bailey

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REILLY: VALERIE MacON/AFP/GETTY
SANTORUM: JAY LAPRETE/GETTY.
ROMNEY: EMMANUEL DUNAND/AFP/ GETTY
CHICKEN SOUP: MATTHEW MEAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS
''THE VOICE'' STARS: KEVIN WINTER/GETTY
CAIN: BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY. HODGMAN: BRANTLEY GUTIERREZ. JUDGE: GETTY
SPRINGER: FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY
MONTY HALL: FRED WESTBROOK COLLECTION/GSN
ED McMAHON: ROBERT MORA/GETTY
CELINE DION: VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID SPARSHOTT)
CHARTS
 GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); CHEESE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); DRINKING PLACES (61%); SOCCER (60%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%); CELINE DION (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); AL GORE (50%); MATT MEAD (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



147 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Why Are They Always Apologizing?

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA, ROSIE SCHAAP, ANDREW MUELLER, MICKEY RAPKIN, ERIC SPITZNAGEL, TIM SAMUELS, SARAH LYALL, ROGER BENNETT, ANDREW MUELLER, ADAM LEFF, RICHARD RUSHFIELD, KALEEM AFTAB, EDWARD SCHNEIDER, and JON KELLY

 BODY:
1. Does everyone drink like Winston Churchill?
Thanks largely to a film and television conspiracy (and the complete works of Kingsley Amis), many Americans view London as a place where everyone drinks, all the time. And it's sort of true. According to Britain's National Health Service, 12 percent of Londoners (about 900,000 people) drink more than five days a week. And, according to a 2009 report, as many as 17 million working days are lost to booze each year in the United Kingdom. Ravi Somaiya
2. That said, what's the best off-the-beaten-path pub? 
London excels in luxurious hotel bars and gastro pubs, but more than once upon entering a local pub on my own, I've felt a bit like that unfortunate stranger blowing into the saloon in a western. Not long ago, though, I fell for an unassuming pub in Peckham called the Gowlett Arms. It had good, real English ale -- they have Fuller's London Pride on tap -- in addition to a lavishly tattooed bartender, Betty, and regulars who were more than happy to talk to a stranger. After a few pints, I recalled that I was just steps away from Peckham Rye, where William Blake claimed to have had his first vision of angels. If I lived nearby, I'd be there every other night. Rosie Schaap
3. Are Londoners psyched for the Olympics?
Absolutely not. In the annual tourist rush of July and August, London is like a cranky father compelled to host a party for his teenage daughter -- awkward, uncomfortable and simmering with barely concealed fury at the ghastly, noisy interlopers who insist on having a good time. It is reasonable to expect that all these hostile instincts will only be amplified by a larger-than-usual influx of people who can't pronounce ''Leicester Square'' properly. So there's that.
Also: Londoners are not impressed by anything, at all, ever. Everything has already happened here -- including the Olympics, twice, in 1908 and 1948. Sometimes, the weary stoicism of Londoners is a boon. But it is an outlook instantly affronted by any suggestion that any future happening is going to be profitable, transformative or, worst of all, pleasant. Andrew Mueller
3a. But there is one exception . . .
With an estimated 450,000 tourists needing beds for the 2012 Olympics, Londoners of all income levels are excited to lease out their apartments for ungodly sums. ''The price point seems to be around four times the regular rental price,'' says Jemma Scott, head of residential corporate services for Knight Frank, the venerable real estate outfit. On OneFineStay.com, a Craigslist for short-term rentals, a six-bedroom, three-bath home in Notting Hill is going for almost $3,200 dollars a night. The Chelsea town house of the retired soccer star Sol Campbell is on the market for $120,000 a week during the Games. ''But that's not to say it's all good inventory,'' warns Guy van der Westhuizen, founder of Ivy Lettings, a firm specializing in high-end quickie rentals. A flat in working-class East London can still be had for $230 dollars a night. Mickey Rapkin
4. How smart are London cabdrivers?
Steve McNamara, the general secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association, who has driven black cabs for more than 30 years, thinks they're very, very smart.
What, exactly, is the Knowledge?
Every London black-cab driver has to know, by heart, every street and driving route within a six-mile radius of Charing Cross Station. There are 26,000 streets in London and approximately 148,000 places of interest. It can take more than three years just to prepare for the test, and it can take years to complete. It dates back to Oliver Cromwell, whom you've probably never heard of.
Cromwell? Really?
Oliver Cromwell was a guy who led in the English Civil Wars during the mid-17th century. He was very upset by the fact that the cab men at the time weren't very well behaved, so he introduced formal licensing in, I believe, 1654.
There was a study done a decade ago at University College London, in which researchers discovered that --
-- cabdrivers have bigger brains? Yes, I'm aware of that study. I've always felt smarter than most people anyway. There are cabdrivers who saw this recession coming long before the financiers.
Do you make snap decisions about passengers based on the way they're dressed or their body language?
Never. That's the first thing you learn when you're driving a cab. You can never judge a book by its cover. Ever. Eric Spitznagel
6. Is London really as expensive as everyone says?
The true barometer of economic behavior is nestled between the chocolate-chip cookies and marshmallow goo in a corner shop of the celebrity heartland that is Primrose Hill. On the shelves of this northwest London grocer, a very in-demand box of Lucky Charms costs about $14. While the neighborhood's pop stars and celebrity chefs wouldn't be caught dead with such an item, the cereal does have one very demanding constituency: expat Americans. ''They go crazy when a new cereal comes in,'' says one baffled cashier. ''They say it tastes better, but I don't know -- I can't afford them.'' Tim Samuels
5. But if you had to make a snap judgment about a Londoner, how would you do it?
Start with the newspaper he or she is reading.
The Daily Telegraph Older conservatives who mourn the loss of the empire by placing cricket before family. Last truly happy on D-Day.
The Guardian (or The Observer on Sundays) Bikram-practicing middle-class liberals preoccupied with ending all wars and rolling their own cigarettes.
The Times of London Definitely a member of the political and corporate elite; fancies him-or herself as tolerant; has zero middle-class friends.
The Independent Slightly depressed and overeducated underachievers who are really worried about the environment.
The Daily Mail Middle-class housewives who live in fear of rising house prices, Elton John and Gypsies. Loves: Lady Thatcher, talented-pet stories and George Clooney.
The Daily Express Intolerant, easily outraged and yet to recover from Lady Diana's death. Constant fear of terrorist attack is blunted by gin and reality TV.
The Daily Mirror A really great night out starts with binge drinking at the greyhound track.
The Sun Beloved by working-class conservatives eager to read a tabloid that goes for the jugular whether the topic is politics, soccer or topless women.
Roger Bennett
7. Why are Londoners always apologizing?
Londoners' air of permanent regret can seem bewildering and perverse. They apologize when they bump into you, when you bump into them, when they walk into doors, when they drop things, when they want to speak, when they are flustered, when they disagree, when they are brushing past you, when they cannot hear, when they can hear all too well and as a reflex when they cannot think of what else to say. But by no means does saying ''sorry'' mean the speaker is in fact sorry. Frequent apology is one of an arsenal of clever tricks Londoners employ to obscure their true feelings and remain opaque to outsiders and possibly even to themselves. Sarah Lyall
7a. A quick guide to what Londoners say and what they really think.
''Don't mention it . . . '' ''Please continue to thank me . . . ''
''I'm not being funny, but . . . '' Prelude to a socially unacceptable remark
''I'm running 10 minutes late . . . '' ''I will be there anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour after we agreed to meet''
''I have half a mind to say something . . . '' ''I am adding to years' worth of unspoken resentment that I will silence with claret or a very dry white wine''
''Musn't complain . . . '' ''I have just complained''
''Probably my fault . . . '' ''This is your fault.''
Ravi Somaiya
8. Ken or Boris?
The irrepressible mavericks Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson are the only two men to have held the office of Mayor of London since it was created -- Ken from 2000 to 2008, Boris from 2008 to now. And one of them will win another term in the election in May. It says much about both of them that they are instantly recognizable from, and almost invariably referred to, by their first names. Otherwise, they have nothing in common.
Ken: In office, this veteran of the Labor Party's far left fulfilled some of the grimmer predictions that he'd convert City Hall into a free-range zoo for the left: he formally apologized for London's role in the slave trade; acknowledged President George W. Bush's visit by hosting a ''peace reception,'' to which Bush was not invited; and fondly imagined the mass lynching of the Saudi royal family. He also proved shrewdly amenable to business and building and unclogged London's sclerotic streets with a bold congestion charge.
Boris: Forever giving the impression of having either just waked or not slept, he has negotiated a rigorously orthodox Tory path through education, journalism and politics -- Eton, Oxford, The Times, Member of Parliament for the impeccably snooty constituency of Henley-on-Thames. Yet he has horrified nobody more than his generally strait-laced political allies. He has also aroused a certain amount of confused, furtive affection in people who would not normally vote Conservative without a pistol to the temple. And the most visible legacy of his term is a citywide bicycle-rental scheme first mooted during Ken's second term but irreversibly known as Boris Bikes.
Whom to vote for?
Neither shows any inclination to be anything but himself. Ken recently suggested that a constructive reaction to the financial crisis might be to ''hang a banker a week until the others improve.'' Boris described Ken's St. Patrick's Day celebrations as ''lefty crap.'' Either way, it won't be boring. Andrew Mueller
9. Who is the Donald Trump of London?
For that and other contemporary curiosities, here's a handy London-New York cultural cheat sheet. Adam Leff and Richard Rushfield
Celebrity-Studded Art Happening London: David Hockney at the Royal Academy New York: Cindy Sherman at MoMA
Ridiculously Exclusive Club London: The Arts Club New York: SoulCycle Union Square
Attention-Loving Billionaire London: Philip Green New York: Donald Trump
Adorable Indie-Pop Phenomenon London: Florence and the Machine New York: Elizabeth and the Catapult
Starbucks Count London: 237 New York: 231
Lowbrow TV Addiction London: ''The Only Way Is Essex'' New York: ''Jersey Shore''
Cool-Kid Hideout London: Peckham New York: Bushwick
Cranky Critic London: Mark Kermode New York: Al Sharpton
New Literary Sensation London: ''Pigeon English,'' by Stephen Kelman New York: ''The Art of Fielding,'' by Chad Harbach
Daily Unavoidable Question London: Is Kate pregnant? New York: How many points did Lin score?
9a. Who is the Snooki of London?
How does an Essex girl turn on the light in the morning? She opens the car door. Boom!
When they began shooting Britain's answer to ''Jersey Shore,'' the creators of ITV 2's ''The Only Way Is Essex'' -- of which Kate Middleton is a professed fan -- could have only dreamed of Lauren Pope, a reality star with a knack for being photographed falling-down drunk in short dresses. Yet every personal disaster, as they say, begets another media opportunity. Now an actress, D.J., producer and entrepreneur, Pope was one of 40,000 Britons with breast implants so dangerous that they needed to be removed. That episode was broadcast last weekend. Kaleem Aftab
9b. Who is Stephen Kelman?
Londoners like nothing better than a rags-to-riches tale. Kelman, 35, grew up in council housing in Luton and worked odd jobs until he started writing seriously in 2005. An unpublished novel and several screenplays followed before, legend has it, his manuscript about the murder of a Ghanaian boy in a London housing project prompted a bidding war won by Bloomsbury for six figures. (Chance, what a marketing tool!) ''Pigeon English'' appeared on the Man Booker Prize shortlist, and Kelman is now a minor celebrity in a city where authors can still be such. Kaleem Aftab
9c. Wait -- is Kate Middleton pregnant?
No. But that's beside the point. Londoners bet on everything. The bookmaker Paddy Powers has conjured odds on royal baby names, ranging from the distinctly possible -- Diana (8 to 1), Frances (Diana's middle name, 5 to 1) and John (Diana's father, 6 to 1) -- to the more creative concepts that appear to hinge on the extent to which a vengeful William wants to make a statement: Wallis at 100 to 1, Fergie at 250 to 1 or Fiona (after the ''Shrek'' princess) 40 to 1. Roger Bennett
10. Wanna eat there? Sorry, they're booked until Christmas. Eat here instead.
Desired Restaurant: The River Cafe Instead, try Zucca, in Bermondsey, where meat or fish dishes run about $24 (as opposed to $50-something) and can include grilled pork belly with artichokes and bright salsa verde or roast hake with broccoli rabe. Antipasti (winter-squash tempura; sausage and ricotta bruschetta) are about $8, and main-course pastas -- like pappardelle with pork-and-fennel ragu -- cost around $16.
Desired Restaurant: St. John Bar and Restaurant As an alternate, trek out east to Bethnal Green and try Brawn, where, after a charcuterie platter ($19), you might find pig's trotters with a vivid sauce gribiche ($13) or snail, oxtail and salsify pie ($17) -- or, for the less adventurous, grilled seafood (around $16) or halibut with crab tortellini and those delicious little brown shrimps they get in the U.K. ($27).
Desired Restaurant: The Ivy The menu at Canteen (several branches) hits some of the same British comfort food marks (macaroni and cheese at $13; Lancashire hot pot for $20; all-day breakfast), plus sustainable fish (market price) and the best Scotch eggs you can imagine, cooked to order ($6 each).
Desired Restaurant: The Fat Duck Instead, try the Corner Room, in Bethnal Green, Chef Nuno Mendes's alternative to fancy dining, which still remains cutting edge. Figure around $40 for three courses. The menu changes all the time but has included dishes like poached artichoke with Sao Jorge cheese; Iberico pork and Portuguese bread pudding; and cured cod with chicken-liver ragu. They take no reservations, so you may want to go at an off-hour or be prepared to wait. Edward Schneider
11. Does anyone know why Londoners kiss one another on both cheeks?
According to Richard Price, the Kent-born chairman of the history department at the University of Maryland, the double kiss began migrating from France in the 1970s. It took hold a few decades later. ''Once the Chunnel came into service'' in 1994, he says, ''you would get French people coming into London to shop at Marks & Spencer, especially when the pound was weak.'' And their affectionate greeting, he suggests, slowly but surely permeated the more cosmopolitan realms of London society. ''It's a reflection of [London's] Europeanization,'' he says. Oh, how times have changed! ''In my parents' generation,'' he notes, ''kissing on the cheek was considered an intrusion of personal space.'' Jon Kelly
More in the Magazine <check>

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 34 this weekend about London and Londoners misspells the surname of a member of the royal family at one point. As the article correctly notes elsewhere, she is Kate Middleton, not Middleteon.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY EMMA KELLY) (MM34
 MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (91%); OLYMPICS (89%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); HOTEL AMENITIES (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); REAL ESTATE (67%); PROPERTY LEASES (63%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (50%); KNIGHT FRANK LLP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (50%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



148 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Food Co-op Politics Leave a Bad Taste

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Many years ago, after graduating from college to a $15,600-a-year job as an editorial assistant, I moved to Park Slope, celebrating my pioneering spirit. It was the late 1980s, long before the affluent enclaves of Brooklyn had become an ever-expanding temple to all the different things that might be done with Tuscan kale. The Park Slope Food Co-op was the center of culinary interest, such as it was. I wanted to love it, but a brief flirtation confirmed my suspicions that the co-op was a place where people in overalls behaved unpleasantly toward you and where arriving at consensus over the price of a plum took longer than the first and second phases of the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks.
Collectivism, of course, makes a fetish of process. That is probably the most benign way to interpret what has recently been going on at the co-op, one of the largest in the country, owned and operated by its 16,000 members. For a few years now, a small contingent has been debating whether the organization should join the global movement known as BDS, which calls for boycotts, divestment and sanctions against Israel until it returns all Arab land occupied in 1967. 
Every other week, the co-op's newspaper is consumed not only by epic, impassioned, sometimes-vitriolic letters about the issue, but also letters about how to talk about the issue, about how to think about the Middle East and about the appropriateness of these kinds of debates in a place that above all exists to purvey the right kind of clementine. There are letters about the kinds of typographical errors made in these letters. At the co-op's next monthly meeting, on March 27, a vote will be conducted to decide whether a bigger vote, among all co-op members, ought to be conducted, authorizing a boycott of Israeli products.
Calling for a boycott of Israeli-made foods at the Park Slope Food Co-op turns out to be a lot like calling for a boycott of Speedos in Minsk. In addition to Sodastream seltzer makers and replacement cartridges, there are currently only a handful of foods in the whole establishment produced in Israel. One of them, an olive spread made by a company called Peaceworks, uses olives grown in Palestinian villages and glass jars made in Egypt. The company diverts 5 percent of its profits to peace-promoting causes.
That a protest of this scope would be both dubious as a symbolic gesture and utterly absurd as a means of levying economic impact has hardly diluted the tensions of those invested. Great effort is being made to defeat something unlikely to occur. Inside the co-op, an antiboycott faction, which calls itself More Hummus Please, has arisen and organized a conference under the heading The Israeli/Palestinian Conflict Today: Obstacles and Opportunities, scheduled for Sunday. Regional experts and academics like the philosopher Michael Walzer were invited to speak.
Presumably, less energy has gone into creating super PACs. In seeking the best way to deliver its message to the world of Park Slope, the group reached out to the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York and a local rabbi, Andy Bachman of Congregation Beth Elohim, who counseled the antiboycott people to keep the tone of the event nuanced. Sunday's conference will be held at Old First Reformed Church, near the co-op.
''The BDS people have been having their events in the co-op itself,'' Marion Stein, a 15-year member, told me, ''and that's something that we in the Hummus group find very upsetting.''
The intensity of the conversation belies the extent to which the vast majority of co-op members don't care about a potential boycott, Ms. Stein acknowledged. This was borne out as I stood in front of the co-op one rainy afternoon last week and met several people who knew nothing about the debate and several others who had no interest, and more who were irritated by the fact the discussion was taking place at all.
''The whole thing is ridiculous,'' Matt Lewkowicz, a young composer, said of the boycott. ''I have plenty of outlets for my political opinions. The co-op isn't one of them. I just want really good dried fruit.''
As I was speaking with Mr. Lewkowicz, other young people, students at New York University, were gearing up for a demonstration outside Weinstein dining hall the following day. The issue there is the presence of a Chick-fil-A.
The N.Y.U. outpost is the only branch of the Southern chain in New York City. Led by Hillary Dworkoski, a freshman, some students want it evicted from the campus because Chick-fil-A has given money to groups opposing same-sex marriage. That the company, which is led by evangelical Christians, has given tens of millions more through its foundation to help send financially disadvantaged children to college and assist the poor did not offset things in Ms. Dworkoski's mind. Nor did it seem especially relevant that gay marriage, being legalized in one state after another, has gained a momentum in this country that a retailer of waffle fries is unlikely to impede. Last year, when the issue came before N.Y.U.'s Student Senators Council, the student government body, the group voted against banning Chick-fil-A as a matter of free expression.
The co-op, despite the wonderful job it does providing organic foods at affordable prices, suffers from its own adolescent myopia: It believes that what it does has broad implications. Suppressing hummus on Union Street won't change the world.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Big City column last Sunday, about the Park Slope Food Co-op, which is considering a boycott of Israeli products, erroneously attributed a distinction to the co-op. It is one of the largest in the country, not the largest. (The largest is PCC Natural Markets in Washington State.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEBATES: Hillary Dworkoski protesting outside a Chickfil- A at New York University over its efforts against same-sex marriage. At the Park Slope Food Co-op, right, some members are considering a boycott of Israeli goods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (66%); DIVESTITURES (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (59%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); EGYPT (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



149 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2480 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Inhale

BYLINE: By AMY O'LEARY

 BODY:
IN a crowded place like Manhattan, there are moments when a certain question flits across people's minds.
It could happen on a weeknight at the Union Square Trader Joe's, when the aisles are so packed that shopping for frozen edamame morphs into a full-contact sport. Or perhaps it's on a Saturday in SoHo when Broadway is transformed into an obstacle course of tourists and jewelry peddlers. Maybe it's on the No. 2 subway line at rush hour, where personal space -- if any -- can be measured with a micrometer.
And then you pass by a new high-rise under construction, and it's only rational to wonder: Just how many people can Manhattan actually hold?
It's not only grousing New Yorkers who think about this. Planners at City Hall constantly weigh population projections, subway capacity and building heights. Economists and urban theorists debate what-if scenarios that would render the skyline unrecognizable. 
Even though the demand for New York real estate seems insatiable, it's possible the city could grow so crowded it would turn off the likes of Cleo Stiller-Farrell, 25, who was born in Manhattan and works on the 54th floor of a Midtown office building for a biotech hedge fund.
''You just see yourself doing things that your mother would be ashamed of,'' she confessed. One example: cutting off an elderly woman on the sidewalk and thinking to herself, ''Your scooter is taking too long -- outta my way, lady!''
Already wishing the city could cap the number of people moving to Manhattan, Ms. Stiller-Farrell says she dreads every new building she sees -- her imagination immediately launches into an apocalyptic vision of skyscrapers and darkness worthy of science fiction.
''How many years does New York have before it starts to look like 'Blade Runner?' '' she asked.
Some perspective: As crowded as the city feels at times, the present-day Manhattan population, 1.6 million, is nowhere near what it once was. In 1910, a staggering 2.3 million people crowded the borough, mostly in tenement buildings. It was a time before zoning, when roughly 90,000 windowless rooms were available for rent, and a recent immigrant might share a few hundred square feet with as many as 10 people. At that time, the Lower East Side was one of the most crowded places on the planet, according to demographers. Even as recently as 1950, the Manhattan of ''West Side Story'' was denser than today, with a population of two million.
By 1980, with the subsequent flight to suburbia, the population fell to 1.4 million. Then crime dropped, the city strengthened economically, and real estate prices started a steady climb, defying broader downturns in the economy as any dip in the market came to be viewed as a buying opportunity.
But those numbers measure Manhattan at its sleepiest, literally. Census figures count only residents, neglecting, as E. B. White famously wrote, ''the New York of the commuter, the city that is devoured by locusts each day and spat out each night.''
If a whole city can be created and destroyed in a day, Manhattan comes close. During the workday, the population effectively doubles, to 3.9 million, as shown in a new report by the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management of New York University. Day-trippers, hospital patients, tourists, students and, most of all, commuters, drain the suburbs and outer boroughs, filling streets and office space with life. Wednesday, it turns out, is the most populous day of the week, and special events, like the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, push the total past five million, offering a glimpse of what an even more crowded Manhattan might feel like.
So if Manhattan's slow but steady growth continues -- and there's no sign it won't -- how many people can it handle? Answers to this seemingly simple question could fill enough pages to pack a spacious studio apartment, but a quick helicopter tour of future scenarios for Manhattan's growth shows a tangle of towers and trade-offs.
Manhattan Circa 2030
Two hundred and fifty people work in New York's Department of City Planning, and its Population Division, using various methodologies, tallies births and deaths, and then fine-tunes projections based on census figures, to arrive at a best guess of what the city will look like. By 2030, they expect Manhattan will have 220,000 to 290,000 new residents -- roughly one new neighbor for every six current residents. They also anticipate a much grayer population, as more retirees choose to stay in the city.
All these new people will surely alter the skyline, and create demand for growth in pockets of the city that still have room to be developed. Certain neighborhoods come up repeatedly in conversations with planners and developers: Chelsea; the unnamed neighborhood some call ''Riverside Boulevard''; the area near Columbia University; 125th Street; that stretch of parking lots on the south side of Delancey Street near the Williamsburg Bridge; and of course the West Side, where more than 18,000 new apartments are expected to be built in the huge Hudson Yards project.
Of course, in a city as seductive and glittering as New York, those projections could always turn out to be too conservative. What if a lot more people want in?
Let 1,000 Towers Bloom
These days, Ed Glaeser, a Harvard economist, inevitably comes up in conversations about how cities should grow. In his recent book, ''Triumph of the City,'' he makes an argument -- which many consider persuasive -- that dense places are uniformly better and more interesting than emptier ones, and that they should be allowed to develop unfettered, even if it means building towers where brownstones once stood.
Affordability is the first reason. If you build up, he says, housing prices will fall and more people will be able to live in their own sliver of Manhattan sky. And that's a good thing, Mr. Glaeser adds, since the energy of all those newcomers will fuel innovation and entrepreneurship, attracting talent and growth to create a virtuous circle. From energy-efficiency to life expectancy to finding a date or something to do on a Saturday night, Mr. Glaeser argues that denser places have the edge.
He's all for sacrificing charming stretches of the city for more residential space. He favors preserving noteworthy architecture, but suggests a cap on the number of protected buildings at any one time. If you want to protect a new building, he says, another should come off the list.
''There are certainly individual buildings that I feel sentimental about,'' Mr. Glaeser said, recalling the memory of watching snow fall on the brownstones and the old Magyar church across the street from his childhood apartment on 69th Street between First and Second Avenues. ''Sure, I would feel a little bit sad if that was torn down, but the upside of having thousands more people getting to enjoy New York would outweigh my personal feelings.''
Mr. Glaeser thinks restricting building height is fundamentally unfair. He has proposed scrapping the city's permitting process in favor of ''impact fees'' that developers would pay to cover the infrastructure costs associated with their buildings. So if somebody wanted to build a 50-story building, he or she would simply put up the money required to support its water, sewer, power and so forth.
It's impossible to predict how Manhattan would change in response to looser restrictions. But what if you built a Manhattan that looked more like Hong Kong? Grafting the density of Hong Kong's most crowded neighborhoods onto Manhattan's area would inflate the population to 2.6 million people. Our apartments might be smaller and on higher floors, but our standard of living would not be radically different.
Could New York's infrastructure support all those people? Water is one of the last resources the city is worried about. New Yorkers have actually been using less water (both per person and as a city) every single year for the past 20 years, thanks in part to a wildly successful 1994 program that offered rebates for people who installed more efficient toilets.
Power? Choose your experts. ConEd, which carefully monitors peak power usage, going so far as to conduct an ''air-conditioner census,'' says it's on it. But Kate Ascher, who teaches at Columbia University and leads Happold Consulting's American practice, says the city's power system is frail and in serious need of new power plants and transmission lines.
Garbage? New York already ships its trash to a handful of states, including Pennsylvania, Virginia and Ohio, so more New Yorkers would just add to the thousands of tons of garbage hauled away from the city every day by truck and barge.
Sewage? Already a problem. Rain often overwhelms the system, sending raw sewage into waterways from flooded treatment plants.
Transportation, however, is where the average New Yorker feels the pain of crowding most acutely, especially on the subway.
''The system is at capacity all the time, except at night,'' said Sarah Kaufman, a transportation and data expert who recently left the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to conduct research at N.Y.U. Unless the authority builds more train lines, all it can do is run trains closer together by installing new computer systems.
But such problems are rarely insurmountable, said Ms. Ascher, whose 2005 book ''The Works'' anatomized New York's infrastructure. For example, she notes that after the Great Blizzard of 1888 snapped power lines across Manhattan amid 20-foot snowdrifts, the borough was inspired to put them underground.
''This is a city that's made do every time there's some kind of cataclysmic disaster,'' Ms. Ascher said. Almost no urban problem has an unimagined solution, she added. Cities have turned to desalination, waste-to-power plants, bus rapid-transit, even building an airport in the middle of a harbor.
''If we really felt we needed to do it,'' she said, ''we would build an incinerator on an island in a second.''
Build a New Backyard
''To the naked eye, Manhattan always looks like it's fully grown,'' said Vishaan Chakrabarti, the director of the Center for Urban Real Estate at Columbia University.
And that's why, he added, so many people don't want to see changes to building heights in their neighborhoods. He has a number of practical ideas for developing the city's skyline, and to those who say, ''not in my backyard,'' he has an answer: let's build a new backyard.
At Columbia University in January, in an Italianate room lined with red velvet curtains, Mr. Chakrabarti assembled a blue-ribbon panel of planners, developers, architects and technical experts. ''We have to create more Manhattan,'' he told them.
His plan for doing so is called ''LoLo'' or ''Lower-Lower Manhattan'' -- a brand-new neighborhood, built from landfill in the harbor connecting Lower Manhattan to Governors Island and beyond, with blocks of skyscrapers, new subway lines, and waste-to-energy and desalination plants.
If that sounds far-fetched, keep in mind that much of the waterfront in today's Manhattan was built this way, including Battery Park City. The LoLo that Mr. Chakrabarti proposes would add one square mile to Manhattan, with enough apartments and office buildings to accommodate 94,000 residents and 370,000 commuters.
The Most Crowded City?
Once a month, about 10 city planners, infrastructure experts and academics meet after work for a bull session called ''Infradrinks,'' and happy hour meets urban planning theory.
Before a recent gathering in Brooklyn at their usual watering hole, fittingly called Building on Bond, The New York Times posed a question to the group: is there a limit to how many people can live in Manhattan?
''The natural limits of density? That's a subject that we don't really think about at City Planning,'' said Thaddeus Pawlowski, an urban designer for the city. Undaunted, the group took up the question, and traded rapid-fire theories about vertical farms and banning cars in Manhattan mixed in with ''Jeopardy''-worthy facts. (A city in the United States denser than New York: What is Hoboken?)
In between pints of Lagunitas IPA and toasts to a land bridge, Frank Ruchala Jr., a city planner, pulled out a notebook page covered in math. He'd been working the numbers on the train.
''So, the highest-density spot ever measured on earth was Kowloon Walled City,'' he said, referring to a regulatory no-man's-land in the heart of Hong Kong claimed by both China and Britain, but ruled by neither. Roughly the size of five football fields, the district at its peak in the 1980s housed an estimated 35,000 people in a vertical thicket of chamber pots and darkness. It was demolished in 1994.
''You guys have to see this,'' Mr. Ruchala said.
An iPhone was produced. A Wikipedia entry was summoned. A photo was passed around the table. Gasps. Profanity.
''It was basically a thick waffle of density,'' Mr. Ruchala said.
''So this is just renegade?'' someone asked.
''Pretty renegade,'' Mr. Ruchala answered, ''Yeah. But awesomely renegade.''
The night's calculations revealed that packing Manhattan as tightly as Kowloon Walled City, river to river, would mean jamming in 65 million people. That's if every surface was built on. If the current streets and parks were left intact? About half that many, or nearly the population of California.
Clearly, nobody wants to live in a claustrophobic warren of vertical slums. But what, ultimately, do New Yorkers want? To freeze the city as is? Grow slowly? Build higher and faster? Stretch Manhattan's boundaries with landfill?
Planners and developers can generate dozens of projections, but underneath growing population numbers are hundreds of thousands of very personal decisions, weighing questions like: How much rent can I afford? Where do my friends live? Where's the better job? Can I tolerate another roommate? Is there room in our school's kindergarten class? Can I sit down on the train? Do I want a yard? A dog? A car? Or killer pork buns at 3 a.m.?
As much as determining Manhattan's maximum capacity is about the art and science of urban planning, the question is in some sense much more about psychology. Given all the tradeoffs and rewards of living in this staggeringly complex, gloriously maddening city, there is no final accounting or projection. When it makes sense for our lives, we make do with less space. Like most things that are a matter of compromise and desire, it comes down to another simple question: Just how badly do you want what you want?

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the number of people Manhattan could actually hold misstated part of the name of the agency where Sarah Kaufman, a transportation and data expert, worked before moving to New York University to do research. It is the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, not ''Transit'' Authority.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Over the past 200 years, the island of Manhattan has been expanded.
But there have been many visions for expanding it further: Dam the Hudson River and divert the water into a wider channel in the Harlem River. -- Proposed by Norman Sper, 1934
Create the ''City of New Manhattan'' from landfill, expanding Manhattan into the harbor. -- Proposed by T. Kennard Thomson, 1930
Dam the East River where it meets the Harlem River, and also at the Williamsburg Bridge. -- Proposed by John A. Harriss, 1924 (Sources, from top: N.Y.C. Municipal Archives
Modern Mechanix and Inventions
New York Public Library
Popular Science)
DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY LEIF PARSONS) (RE1
RE8)
GRAPHICS: A Human Thicket One Hundred Years Ago: Manhattan was much more crowded in the early 1900s than today, especially in the tenements of the Lower East Side. For example, in 1910, 66 people lived on the four residential floors of 94 Orchard Street. Today, the buildilng houses 15 people.
New York Compared With Other Urban Areas: Number of people per 5,000 square feet. Figures are for 2010 unless noted. (Sources: New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development, New York City Department of Buildings, New York Realty, National Archives, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, National Historical Geographic Information System, Census Bureau) (GRAPHICS BY RITCHIE S. KING AND GRAHAM ROBERTS THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (68%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); CRIME RATES (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



150 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: A North Korean Corleone

BYLINE: By SHEENA CHESTNUT GREITENS. 
A doctoral candidate in government at Harvard and a fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and at the Miller Center, University of Virginia.

 BODY:
St. Louis
WHAT kind of deal do you make with a 20-something who just inherited not only a country, but also the mantle of one of the world's most sophisticated crime families? When Kim Jong-un, who is thought to be 28 or 29, became North Korea's leader in December after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, he became the de facto head of a mafia state.
How the new leader combines the roles of head of state and mafia don will influence the regime's future behavior. Crime bosses have different incentives, and dealing with them requires different policies. And any deal -- including last week's agreement by North Korea to suspend its nuclear program in exchange for American food aid -- will eventually falter if that reality is ignored.
Kim Jong-un confronts the same problem faced by every dictator: how to generate enough money to pay off the small group of elite supporters -- army generals, party and family -- who keep him in power. Other autocrats use oil wealth or parcel out whole industries to cronies. 
But whoever rules North Korea has less to work with than most. The country defaulted in the 1970s, losing access to international credit, and Soviet subsidies ended with the cold war. In the 1990s, the founder and ''eternal president,'' Kim Il-sung, died just as a series of natural disasters devastated food production. The country has been an economic and humanitarian basket case ever since.
Kim Jong-il, who began training to run the country in the 1970s and inherited it after his father's death, came up with an unconventional solution: state-sponsored organized crime. Counterfeit cigarettes and medicine, drugs, insurance fraud, fake money, trafficking people and endangered species -- for decades, the Kim regime has done it all. Its operations became so extensive and well coordinated that American officials nicknamed it the ''Soprano state,'' after the hit HBO television series.
In the 1970s, after the default, North Korea used diplomats as drug mules to keep embassies running. When that got them kicked out of multiple countries and the economy tanked in the 1990s, Kim Jong-il began producing drugs at home, thereby avoiding a major cost plaguing drug lords elsewhere: law enforcement.
He managed these operations through Bureau 39, a mysterious office under the Central Committee of the Korean Workers' Party. But to create plausible deniability, he outsourced distribution to Russian mafia, Japanese yakuza and Chinese triad gangs, who met North Korean military forces for drug drops at sea. The regime also manufactured the world's best counterfeit dollars -- so good that they reportedly forced the Treasury to redesign the $100 bill -- and used a crime ring connected to the Official Irish Republican Army, a Marxist offshoot of the I.R.A., to launder them in Europe. They even made fake Viagra.
The Agreed Framework that froze North Korea's nuclear program in October 1994 didn't stop these activities; they actually increased. Despite its other benefits, the framework didn't address the fundamental hard currency needs of the North Korean leadership.
This criminal legacy means that Kim Jong-un has even more on his plate than one might think. In addition to running a country that is an economic and humanitarian disaster and a geopolitical hot spot, he also has to manage a global criminal racket. That's a lot for any 20-something to handle. (As ''Sopranos'' fans know, A. J.'s taking over for Tony might not have been good for business.)
Despite the seemingly stable transition so far, Kim Jong-un is under pressure. Elite party members who supported his father will be skeptical of his untested ability to fulfill his side of their cash-for-support bargain. And North Korea needs more money than usual this year to celebrate the anniversaries of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il. (In the '70s, one of the first things Kim Jong-il used foreign currency for was a campaign to glorify his father.) Any sign that Kim Jong-un can't satisfy supporters could crack the facade of elite solidarity.
What's an aspiring kingpin to do?
First, find the money. Kim Jong-un seems to have done that. One of the last photos released of Kim Jong-il shows him riding a supermarket escalator. Behind him are Kim Jong-un and Jon Il-chun, manager of the infamous Bureau 39.
Second, control the people who earn the money. Illicit activity brings the risk of freelancing, especially when you're forced to let others do the distribution. As North Korea outsourced the drug trade, its profit margins dropped -- and more and more insiders skimmed off the system to line their pockets. Today, reports indicate that methamphetamine is widely used in North Korea (partly because it dulls hunger pains), and the state is cracking down on the trade it once monopolized. Even Kim Jong-il couldn't maintain perfect control and had to send operatives abroad to retrieve misbehaving agents. These are delicate tasks easily botched by a novice.
Finally, keep the money coming. Criminal activity was never North Korea's ultimate objective; the aim was always hard currency. Kim Jong-un needs cash without political conditions to stay in power. But there aren't many good options for getting it these days, which is why North Korea is likely to pursue new and expanded forms of illicit activity.
Criminal activities are attractive because other sources of money have strings attached. Remittances from defectors, which have risen recently, don't go to leaders, and they let in information. North Korea could bank on economic reform or Chinese aid, but reform won't necessarily provide money for the elite, and aid makes Pyongyang uneasily dependent on Chinese patronage.
The cardinal fear of national security experts -- which partly motivated last week's agreement -- is that Pyongyang will make money through nuclear proliferation. After all, North Korea is alleged to have helped build the Syrian nuclear reactor that Israel destroyed in 2007. But it may be hard for North Korea to find a buyer; tests of its plutonium warheads have been a questionable technical success, and their uranium-enrichment program may not be advanced enough to make them an attractive seller.
That leaves crime. Last week's deal does not change the probability that North Korea will engage in it. And new lines of business probably won't look like the old ones; North Korea's schemes are creative and highly adaptable.
When drugs and counterfeit dollars got too much exposure, the regime shifted toward cigarettes and insurance fraud. Last summer, South Korean authorities discovered North Korea's involvement in a hacking ring that exploited online gaming sites to win points and exchange them for cash, making $6 million in two years. Given that cybercriminals across the world gross over $100 billion annually, a country with decent cyberwarfare capabilities could probably do well for itself.
Or could North Korea go legit? Publicly at least, there haven't been major seizures of its drugs or counterfeit currency in several years, leading analysts to speculate that targeting the country's illicit finances successfully crippled those particular earning schemes. And Kim Jong-il's death does give North Korea an opportunity to get out of the game.
BUT legitimacy won't solve Kim Jong-un's problem. Right now his survival is guaranteed by hard currency, and the best source of it is illicit activity. That's why previous American efforts sought to shut off these activities: to convince the regime it had to reform itself to survive.
That didn't go quite far enough. Shutting down those activities works only so long as North Korea can't find new ones. The key to survival was not any one illicit activity but the ability to adapt from one to another -- an ability that, with Kim Jong-il gone, likely rests with just a few trusted people. Those people, their loyalties and their relationships are now Kim Jong-un's biggest vulnerability. If North Korea loses its capacity to adapt, it will lose the ability to make money illicitly -- and will have to choose reform.
For America to make successful deals with North Korea, we must first grasp that its leader faces not just a dictator's problems, but those of a mafia boss. And if you make a deal with the Godfather, you must not overlook the interests of the consigliere standing behind him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DEAR LEADER: A Korean National Insurance Corp. official, who later defected, says he personally sent a gift of $20 million from Singapore for Kim Jong-il's 2003 birthday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHISA KATO/KYODO VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
POACHING PLOT: An official at the North Korean Embassy in Harare, Zimbabwe, attempted to recruit, finance and arm eight rhino poachers in 1988, one of many endangered species trafficking incidents between the two countries.
OVER THE LUGGAGE LIMIT: The wife of a North Korean diplomat was stopped in a Moscow airport, en route to Beijing, for transporting 85 elephant tusks from Lagos, Nigeria -- a half-ton of illicit ivory.
YOU'RE OUT: A total of 17 North Korean officials, among them two ambassadors and the entire staff of the embassy in Norway, were ejected from four Nordic countries in 1976 for illegally selling narcotics, alcohol and cigarettes. One was arrested again in 1998 for trying to pass counterfeit currency in Vladivostok, Russia.
CRISP -- AND FAKE: An eight-year investigation led the F.B.I. to break up a smuggling ring operating in New Jersey and California that was trafficking in so-called super notes -- the extremely highquality counterfeit American $100 bills originating in North Korea.
CAT AND MOUSE: After a four-day chase in 2003, Australian authorities captured a North Koreanowned ship that had dropped about 275 pounds of heroin on a remote beach. GRAPHICS: The Wide World of North Korean Contraband: A small sampling of the regime's criminal enterprises during the period that Kim Jong-il, right, held positions in government. (Sources: Dept. of State
Dept. of Defense
Federal Bureau of Investigation
 news reports) (GRAPHICS BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); FAMILY (89%); COUNTERFEITING (85%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (85%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); ARMIES (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INSURANCE FRAUD (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (92%); KIM JONG UN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (65%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (65%); BEIJING, CHINA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (65%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



151 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3753 words

HEADLINE: Star-to-Be Who Never Was

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
STONY CREEK, Va. -- On an otherwise lazy Sunday, dinner took hours to prepare, filling the small one-story house on a remote and wooded street with the aromatic smell of chicken, ribs and all the trimmings. The extended family would soon be arriving, in full, hungry force.
Standing tall but cramped in the narrow kitchen at 6 feet 6 inches and not much less than 300 pounds, Lenny Cooke suddenly looked up from his culinary masterpiece.
''I went from being a superstar basketball player to being a cook,'' he said wistfully, unmindful of the play on his name. 
But cooking is only a pastime, not a profession, and Cooke, who will turn 30 next month, has yet to discover what or who he is supposed to be since it became obvious years ago that he would not fulfill his once presumed destiny and become an N.B.A. star.
A decade ago, many were predicting that Cooke, a New York City prodigy, would become a basketball shoe pitchman and would flaunt his wares and skills at All-Star weekends like the recent aerial show in Orlando, Fla. There was a time, however fleeting, when he was more heralded, or perhaps merely hyped, than any other high school player in America.
''No matter who it was against, where we were at, once I got rolling, I just felt I couldn't be stopped,'' he said.
Scant as it was, evidence of that other life was on display in a corner of the living room of the house Cooke shares with his girlfriend, Anita Solomon, and their young daughter, Nyvaeh. The handful of trophies was only a sampling, he said, of the many he had stored away at his mother's house in Emporia, a nearby town close to Virginia's border with North Carolina.
But on the wall of Cooke's celebrity corner was his photographic treasure, proof that he had once walked among the most gifted and talented, and still could.
There was one shot of much younger Lenny, his thinner face partly hidden under a low-slung cap, posing with Magic Johnson. And there was contemporary Lenny, bloated in the years after injuries ended a career already marginalized, in the separate company of Carmelo Anthony and Amar'e Stoudemire at a Knicks game last season.
''When I see them, I get the most respect,'' he said. ''They knew how good I was.''
Cooke was a flashy 6-6 guard who struggled with academics and flirted with college before signing with an agent and entering the 2002 N.B.A. draft -- only to go undrafted, never advancing beyond the summer-league teams of the Boston Celtics and the Seattle SuperSonics.
What went wrong? How did he miss by so much?
Stretched on the couch, glancing at a big-screen television, he shrugged and said, ''You had a devil on one shoulder and an angel on another.''
After arriving with a phalanx of relatives, Cooke's mother, Alfreda Hendrix, explained that her son had heeded the wrong calling and had mistaken what was given to him as something he had earned.
''He was a teenage kid, and every day, he had money in his pocket -- and I don't mean $200 or $300,'' she said. ''It was whatever he wanted, like the world was his, so he took advantage of it. I guess he didn't figure that things were going to fall down because people kept telling him it was only going to get better and better. He made a lot of mistakes, but as far as his attitude, he's changed now. He has matured a lot.''
Yet there remains a restless side to Cooke, a meandering and moody soul, the father of three (a son lives in Brooklyn and another daughter in Maryland) who will wander off for weeks at a time to Atlantic City, where he was born, or back to Brooklyn, where he lived during his early high school years.
This is where the story, still at its crossroads, becomes more complicated. Nobody seems to know what Cooke is looking for -- closure from basketball and the key to his future, or the perpetuation of a legend that was never quite written.
Eclipsed Early On
The first time Adam Shopkorn read about Lenny Cooke, he could not shake the feeling that Cooke's story had a big-screen, sequel-like quality, ''Hoop Dreams'' for the 21st century. Given the widespread raves for his all-around game, Cooke -- unlike the popular 1994 documentary that followed two young Chicago players -- seemed far more likely to end with a pot of N.B.A. gold.
Shopkorn, in his early 20s, quit his job with a Manhattan filmmaker and hauled his equipment up to Old Tappan, N.J., where Cooke, an African-American, was starring for the local public school while living with a wealthy white family. In that regard, the cinematic appeal was more ''The Blind Side'' than ''Hoop Dreams.''
Four years earlier, Cooke had befriended a teammate, Brian Raimondi, on an Amateur Athletic Union team called the Panthers. Raimondi's mother, Debbie Bortner, helped manage the squad. Cooke had only recently begun playing organized ball but was already more than 6 feet tall and quickly became the talk of the circuit.
The Panthers happened to have one future N.B.A. multimillionaire on their roster, but Joakim Noah, now of the Chicago Bulls, was only 5-9 on the way to 6-11 and completely in awe of Cooke.
''I was a 13-year-old French kid from Paris, and all of a sudden, I met Lenny and was watching him play in all of these tournaments,'' said Noah, the son of the French tennis star Yannick Noah, whose mother had moved him to Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan. ''He was really my hero because the way he could dominate a game was unbelievable to me.''
Cooke began high school at Franklin K. Lane in Brooklyn and transferred to La Salle Academy in Manhattan to play with Raimondi. By junior year, with Cooke struggling academically, they hatched a plan to become teammates in Old Tappan.
While Raimondi nursed a broken wrist, Cooke was dominating the suburban competition when Shopkorn arrived to make his documentary pitch.
''I wasn't there just to get a quick story, but as someone who wanted to be there for the whole process -- let's call it a two-year process,'' Shopkorn said. ''It took a little time, but Lenny understood what I wanted to do. He began to trust me.''
Shopkorn turned his video camera on Cooke at Bortner's home, where Cooke and Raimondi had adjoining rooms; at Cooke's games for Old Tappan, where he averaged 31 points but fell short of a state championship; on Cooke's visits to his old Bushwick neighborhood -- the frequency of which concerned Bortner -- even after his family had left Brooklyn for Virginia.
Most significantly, and symbolically, Shopkorn was in perfect position to record a moment that would become the most unforgettable, and haunting, of Cooke's basketball life.
It was the summer of 2001, weeks before 9/11, and Cooke returned to the popular ABCD Camp for the nation's most prominent high school players at Fairleigh Dickinson University's Teaneck, N.J., campus as the defending most valuable player, the presumed chosen one.
''He was coming from being the No. 1 player in the country, and we all looked at Lenny like that,'' said Anthony, who was born in Brooklyn but relocated to Baltimore. ''It was his size, how strong he was, how he could pass the ball and play the point, kind of like Magic, I guess. He was really explosive.''
Anthony's team was defeated by Cooke's group. Cooke dazzled the packed gym and set up a showdown between him and a lesser-known player who was generating interest and who was one grade behind Cooke. His name was LeBron James, out of Akron, Ohio, a comparative basketball backwater.
During the camp, a person in the James entourage noticed Shopkorn's shadowing Cooke and wanted to know why. When Shopkorn told him, the James ally said: ''You should come up to Akron and shoot LeBron. He's the real deal.''
Shopkorn declined the offer, electing to go with the known commodity, or at least the commodity he knew.
''Lenny was local, so you had all the media outlets there, all the newspapers, all the scouts and coaches,'' Shopkorn said. ''There was this buildup to the game, and it kind of took on a life of its own.''
Sitting in the stands with Debbie Bortner that day, Joakim Noah says he remembers Cooke's climactic moment -- crossing over James on the dribble several times before draining a midrange jumper. The gym erupted, but it was only the first half of a game that would go down to the last possession, a much leaner James with the ball and his team trailing by 2.
James had already outscored Cooke, 21-9, but he saved his best for last. Guarded by Cooke, he dribbled out of the backcourt, to his right. Just as he approached the 3-point line, with a step on Cooke, James went airborne, kicked his feet back and floated the ball toward the rim. He hit nothing but net -- game over -- while Cooke's jaw dropped.
''How'd he make that?'' he said to a friend afterward, mixing in profanity. ''Oh my God.''
Sonny Vaccaro, the former sneaker company executive who founded the camp, was stunned to learn that Shopkorn had footage of what he considered to be a historic shot. He called it the ''one physical moment that symbolized the beginning of LeBron and the downfall of Lenny Cooke.''
''He beat Lenny on his own turf,'' Vaccaro said. ''I mean, you can say it was one shot, one game, but in a way, Lenny never recovered.''
James would land on the cover of Sports Illustrated and star in a nationally televised high school game on ESPN. With his scholastic eligibility exhausted, Cooke was limited during his senior year to all-star classics and pickup games.
He would never again be considered the next brand name. Anthony, who left New Jersey the day before the Cooke-James showdown, said, ''After that, we just didn't hear very much about him.''
With the benefit of 20-20 hindsight, Cooke can plainly see now that the angel on his shoulder was Debbie Bortner.
''I look back and wished I would have listened to what she and other people were telling me about school,'' he said. ''It's up to you to make your own decisions about who you're going to surround yourself with because your image is more important than anything else.''
Whether Cooke would have repaired his academic record enough to play at St. John's -- the university he said had interest in attending -- is impossible to know. But it all became moot when in the early spring of 2002, he suddenly packed up the neatly stacked row of jerseys and sneakers in Bortner's home.
Moving On
He went to Flint, Mich., to live with a new benefactor, a former college player and recruiter named Terence Greene, seemingly to pursue a high school equivalency diploma.
Cooke had grown tired of hearing that he was Lenny of Old Tappan, not Lenny from Brooklyn. His family chafed over the news media's focus on Bortner, who nonetheless pleaded with him to stay.
''We never had an argument; it was never angry,'' Bortner said. ''Lenny hugged me when he left. We both were in tears. I knew he was making a mistake, but it was more like when you have to let your own child go to find out for himself what the world is like. Unfortunately, people misinterpreted it as Lenny being disloyal, and that he wasn't a good person.''
Vaccaro said the perception only worsened when Cooke arrived in Chicago soon after to play in an all-star game, the Roundball Classic, firmly in the clutches of people pushing him in the direction of the draft.
''There was already a mystery about him when he left Debbie, people starting to wonder about his character,'' Vaccaro said. ''That's not to say he was a bad guy -- because he wasn't. Just one of those kids who listens to the last person who tells him something. And there were people all around him -- agents, runners -- glorifying him, giving him things. He took everything.''
Vaccaro recalled a conversation with Cooke -- a lecture, really -- in which he warned him about making a good impression in Chicago, not doing anything to fuel the already burning speculation.
''I told him, 'Every N.B.A. scout is here, and they're watching you,' '' Vaccaro said. ''I said, 'If you're going to do something stupid, don't do it this week, or do it in your room.' And what happens? It's 1 o'clock in the morning, people are hanging around in the lobby of the Hyatt, and here comes Lenny with his entourage, all the partiers, all the jewelry. I said: 'What the hell are you doing? We talked about this.' ''
Cooke by that time was driving a new Mercedes and with Bortner had distanced himself from his personal documentarian -- though not before Shopkorn recorded his choreographed declaration for the N.B.A. draft at Junior's restaurant in downtown Brooklyn. Tears rolled down Cooke's cheeks as he held his young son, Anahijae, and told reporters that he was ready to run with the world's best.
PUB-DATE: June 26, 2002.
''I waited, I waited, I waited,'' he said. ''Like on Christmas Day, you think you're getting this toy, and then Christmas comes, it's not under the tree. It breaks you down emotionally. I broke down, realized I got bad advice. But you wonder, why not? Why didn't my name get called?''
No longer a commodity, no longer surrounded by those seeking to cash in on an prospective fortune, Cooke was soon looking for new representation and a place to play. He tried the new N.B.A. developmental vehicle, known as the D-League, but carried a star's sense of entitlement. Or maybe it was a case of not enough desire. In one of Shopkorn's many recorded scenes, Cooke responded to a request for a 6:30 a.m. training session at a camp with incredulity, wondering why the start time couldn't be changed to 8.
He didn't last long in the D-League and landed in the old United States Basketball League the next spring. He scored 47 points one night for the Brooklyn Kings, with the original Brooklyn King -- the Knicks legend named Bernard -- watching from courtside, intrigued by what he saw while pointing out the schoolyard tendencies that haunted Cooke's game.
But Cooke averaged about 30 points a game in the U.S.B.L., and that earned him a shot with the Boston Celtics' summer-league team. He had a couple of decent games and relished the challenge of matching up against Cleveland and James, the top pick of the 2003 draft. But Cooke did not play a minute. James, already hailed as the King, took a moment to console him.
Cooke played a season in the Philippines, then drifted to China for a spell. By December 2004, his now-transient life took him to Southern California, where he headed out for dinner on a rainy night after a game with a teammate from the Long Beach Jam of the American Basketball Association. Cooke was not wearing a seat belt when his teammate Nick Sheppard crashed his car into a light post.
Cooke awoke from a coma, spent months in a wheelchair, fortunate that his shattered left leg did not have to be amputated, as doctors first feared. Limping, still dreaming, he returned to the Philippines, then tore his Achilles'. Back in the old Continental Basketball Association with the Rockford Lightning, the coach, Chris Daleo, saw that Cooke had never properly rehabilitated his leg. He was overweight.
''I put him with our trainer and thought if we could get him back in shape, he still might play somewhere,'' Daleo said. ''Lenny was a likable guy, somebody you wanted around. You just wished you could turn back the clock for him. Even when he was out of shape, dragging his leg, you could see he had the tools. LeBron is what you had, only rawer.''
But after the team moved to Minot, N.D., Cooke blew out his other Achilles'. Bad luck compounding imprudent decisions, his career was over, a half-dozen years after his showdown with James. The question echoed: was Cooke ever really that good or merely the beneficiary of the New York buzz?
''You can't put him in the group of New York guys that were overhyped,'' Vaccaro said. ''What it came down to was a complete mistrust in who and what he was. Teams were afraid.''
Vaccaro insisted that Cooke's shattered hoop dreams were far more authentic than those of William Gates and Arthur Agee, chronicled by the director of ''Hoop Dreams,'' Steve James.
''Lenny was on the pedestal because he was one of those elite guys,'' Vaccaro said. ''He was damn good. I just think he blew it all.''
Future in Question
Amar'e Stoudemire did not recognize the smiling man advancing toward him, dressed in oversize clothing to camouflage his ample girth. Recognition only came when the man could lean close and say, ''It's me, Lenny Cooke.''
Stoudemire did a double take before embracing Cooke.
''It had been a few years, and he had picked up a hundred pounds or so,'' Stoudemire said, recalling the moment. ''It was a little shocking.''
The courtside scene that took place after a Bulls-Knicks game at Madison Square Garden last April repeated itself with Anthony, who would say: ''Just to see him now, not doing anything, as far as basketball goes, and so much bigger, it just seemed sad. You wondered why.''
Trying to answer that question was Shopkorn, who accompanied Cooke to the game to record his reunion with Stoudemire, Anthony and his long-ago fervent admirer Joakim Noah. With Shopkorn was Josh Safdie, a New York-based independent filmmaker brought on board by Shopkorn -- along with Safdie's brother, Benny -- after Shopkorn reconnected with Cooke and resumed his long-dormant project.
Friends would occasionally ask Shopkorn, who had become an independent art adviser and curator, whatever happened to the documentary ''with the basketball player.'' Some would remember the name, Lenny. Others would mistakenly say LeBron. They only knew it was someone who was supposed to be famous.
On the afternoon that Cooke was preparing dinner for his family, Shopkorn and Josh Safdie made the now-familiar drive trip from Manhattan to Stony Creek, a town of around 200. It was late December, the sounds of televised football providing a daylong soundtrack. Cooke was clearly delighted and energized by the camera as he played with his daughter, prepared the dinner and shared his career perspective with a reporter.
''At first it was difficult,'' he said of the years after he stopped playing. ''I saw guys I grew up playing with, guys I was better than. I couldn't watch anything LeBron would do -- know what I'm saying? I thought I should have been where he is.''
Cooke never did get to play against James again, or to know him. But he insisted that he never resented his runaway success and dismissed criticism of James's playoff failures.
''I mean, look at where he is, how much money he makes and where he came from,'' he said. Cooke grew quiet, then shook his head. ''From where I'm sitting, right here, I wish the only thing they could say about me was that I have no championship ring.''
Cooke's weight ballooned because he was inactive, deflated and took full advantage of the culinary skills he had honed when he was in the Philippines and China, and would call his mother for tips on home cooking. When he would Google himself online, the only easy-to-locate video of him in action was of his first game at Old Tappan.
Most online references to Cooke identify him as the inverse of James, which he has come to accept as his legacy with a mix of resignation and resolve.
''As long as every time I go on the Internet and somebody is talking about Lenny and LeBron, I guess my name's still being mentioned with this guy -- you know what I'm saying?'' Cooke said. ''Give my kids something to read, some way to know without me telling them that I was there with LeBron, a guy with a $100 million contract. It used to bother me when they said, 'Lenny Cooke was supposed to be something and he isn't.' Not anymore. I'm living my life.''
Cooke could yet attach a more lasting meaning to his aborted basketball life, said Noah, who has expressed conditional interest about participating in Shopkorn's film.
''I mean, there's so many kids out there getting -- I'm not going to say raped by the system -- but really getting taken advantage of,'' he said. ''That's the question people don't ask enough when they talk about Lenny Cooke. I mean, this isn't the story of a kid shooting hoops in his backyard in the Midwest. There was so much thrown at him when he was so young.''
Father Figure Missing
Noah recalled traveling with his father on the tennis tour as a young boy and rooting for him to lose in the first round so they could spend time together.
''Debbie tried to do that for Lenny, but he never really had that male figure,'' Noah said. ''Those are the things Lenny needs to talk about, but if it's going to be for the benefit of kids he's also got to have a positive message at the end.''
That is easier said than done when Cooke is still at a crossroads. Last summer, when Cooke was spending time in Atlantic City, and jogging up and down the court in a recreational league, a friend arranged for him to speak to children at a Boys and Girls Club. He arrived by limousine and -- as he occasionally still does -- spoke of returning to his former playing weight of 200-plus pounds and making a comeback.
Cooke worked for a food distributorship after returning to Virginia but is currently unemployed. Solomon, his girlfriend, commutes about an hour to a hair salon in Richmond and hopes to open her own closer to home.
Daleo, his former coach in Rockford and in Minot, said he had been contacted several times in recent years by people interested in doing one project or another on Cooke.
''To be honest, I wish some of these people would just give Lenny a job,'' he said.
A decade ago, Shopkorn was willing to stake his future on Cooke. Now Cooke lobbies Shopkorn to stay longer when the time comes to leave after a day of shooting video. Cooke said he was excited by the chance to spread his message -- stay in school and steer clear of the industry flesh peddlers -- far and wide. But the attention is intoxicating.
''I do know that by coming back and putting cameras in his face and providing him with all this attention, it's inevitable that there's going to be a return to the feeling that he's the star again, like he was in 2001,'' Shopkorn said.
But he believes this is one cautionary tale of the tapes that should be told. All that is lacking is the happier ending that Noah, Bortner and the others still in Lenny Cooke's corner are hoping for.
Or more to the point: a promising new beginning.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a camp in 2001, Lenny Cooke's star burned brighter than LeBron James's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
There was a time when Lenny Cooke was the top basketball prospect in the country. But poor decisions and injuries intervened. Today, Cooke is wondering about his future.
Cooke keeps mementos in his living room, including a photograph of him and Magic Johnson
more trophies, he says, are stored at his mother's house. Below, Cooke worked out at a Y.M.C.A. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP1)
Lenny Cooke's daughter Nyvaeh next to his trophies and other mementos. Cooke played briefly with the summer-league teams of the Boston Celtics, below left, and the Seattle SuperSonics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JESSE D. GARRABRANT/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (SP6)
 Lenny Cooke and Nyvaeh. Cooke said he did not mind people picking over his failed basketball career today, saying it was one way that his three children would know ''I was there with LeBron.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FAMILY (77%); GIFTED EDUCATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (59%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (85%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



152 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Israel's Backers Pressure Obama On Iran Position

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the eve of a crucial visit to the White House by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, that country's most powerful American advocates are mounting an extraordinary public campaign to pressure President Obama into hardening American policy toward Iran over its nuclear program.
From the corridors of Congress to a gathering of nearly 14,000 American Jews and other supporters of Israel here this weekend, Mr. Obama is being buffeted by demands that the United States be more aggressive toward Iran and more forthright in supporting Israel in its own confrontation with Tehran.
While defenders of Israel rally every year at the meeting of the pro-Israel lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, this year's gathering has been supercharged by a convergence of election-year politics, a deepening nuclear showdown and the often-fraught relationship between the president and the Israeli prime minister.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu will both speak to the group, known as Aipac, as will the three leading Republican presidential candidates, who will appear via satellite from the campaign trail on the morning of Super Tuesday. Republicans have seized on Iran's nuclear ambitions to accuse Mr. Obama of being weak in backing a staunch ally and in confronting a bitter foe. 
The pressure from an often-hostile Congress is also mounting. A group of influential senators, fresh from a meeting with Mr. Netanyahu in Jerusalem, has called on Mr. Obama to lay down sharper criteria, known as ''red lines,'' about when to act against Iran's nuclear ambitions.
''We're saying to the administration, 'You've got a problem; let's fix it, let's get back on message,' '' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who took part in the meeting with Mr. Netanyahu and said the Israeli leader vented frustration at what he viewed as mixed messages from Washington.
''It's not just about the Jewish vote and 2012,'' Mr. Graham added. ''It's about reassuring people who want to avoid war that the United States will do what's necessary.''
To give teeth to the deterrent threat against Iran, Israel and its backers want Mr. Obama to stop urging restraint on Israel and to be more explicit about the circumstances under which the United States itself would carry out a strike.
Specifically, Israeli officials are demanding that Iran agree to halt all its enrichment of uranium in the country, and that the suspension be verified by United Nations inspectors, before the West resumes negotiations with Tehran on its nuclear program.
The White House has rejected that demand, Israeli and American officials said on Friday, arguing that Iran would never agree to a blanket ban upfront, and to insist on it would doom negotiations before they even began. The administration insists that Mr. Obama will stick to his policy, which is focused on using economic sanctions to force the Iranian government to give up its nuclear ambitions, with military action as a last resort.
Despite the position of the Israelis and Aipac, the American intelligence agencies continue to say that there is no evidence that Iran has made a final decision to pursue a nuclear weapon. Recent assessments by American spy agencies have reaffirmed intelligence findings in 2007 and 2010 that concluded that Iran had abandoned its nuclear weapons program.
In his tone, at least, Mr. Obama is working to reassure Israel. In an interview published on Friday, Mr. Obama reiterated his pledge to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon -- with force, if necessary -- and ruled out a policy of accepting but seeking to contain a nuclear-armed Iran. The Israeli government, he said, recognizes that ''as president of the United States, I don't bluff.''
The White House's choice of interviewer -- Jeffrey Goldberg, a national correspondent for the magazine The Atlantic -- was carefully calculated. Mr. Goldberg is closely read among Jews in America; in 2010, he wrote an article exploring the situations under which Israel would attack Iran.
American Jews are anything but monolithic. More dovish groups, like J Street, are trying to make a case against a pre-emptive Israeli strike. But for the next few days, Aipac will set the tone for an intense debate over the Iranian nuclear threat.
Mr. Obama will not lay down new red lines on Iran, even if he discusses them with Mr. Netanyahu, administration officials said. And he is not ready to accept a central part of Israel's strategic calculation: that an attack on Iran's nuclear facilities would be warranted to stop it from gaining the capability to build a nuclear weapon, rather than later, to stop it from actually manufacturing one.
In the interview, Mr. Obama warned Israel of the consequences of a strike and said that it would delay but not prevent Iran from acquiring a weapon. He also said he did not know how the American public would react.
Israel's supporters said they believed that a majority of Americans would support an Israeli military strike against Iran. But polling data paints a murkier picture: while close to 50 percent of Americans say in several polls that they would support Israel, a slightly larger number say they would stay neutral. In some surveys, there is strong support for continuing diplomacy.
Supporters of Israel argue that in the American news media, Iran's nuclear program has been wrongly framed as Israel's problem, rather than as a threat to the security of the whole world.
''This is about the devastating impact on U.S. and Western security of a nuclear-armed Iran bent on bullying the region into submission,'' said Josh Block, a former spokesman for Aipac.
Turnout for this year's Aipac conference is expected to surpass all previous records. And the roster of speakers attests to the group's drawing power. In addition to Mr. Obama, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta will speak, as will Congressional leaders including Senator Mitch McConnell, the chamber's Republican leader, and former Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House.
On Tuesday, the screens in the Washington convention center will light up with the Republican presidential contenders Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum, who are likely to fault Mr. Obama as not doing enough to prevent Iran from getting a weapon.
''Aipac is the spearhead of the pro-Israel community's efforts to move the American government's red lines closer to Israel's red lines,'' said Martin S. Indyk, a former American envoy to Israel.
Officials at Aipac declined to comment about the conference or their strategy. But Mr. Block and other former Aipac officials said that, as in previous years, the group would blanket Capitol Hill with its members -- all of whom will carry a message about the Iranian nuclear threat.
They will be pushing on an open door. Democrats and Republicans, divided on so much, are remarkably united in supporting Israel and in ratcheting up pressure on Iran. The Senate voted 100 to 0 last year to pass legislation isolating Iran's central bank, over the objections of the White House.
There are four bills in the House and Senate that call for tougher action against Iran or closer military cooperation between Israel and the United States. Mr. Graham is one of 32 Republican and Democratic sponsors of a resolution that calls on the president to reject a policy of containing Iran.
''The Senate can't agree to cross the street,'' Mr. Graham said. ''Iran has done more to bring us together than anything in the world.''
To counter Aipac's message, J Street has circulated a video on Capitol Hill, highlighting American and Israeli military experts who have voiced doubts about the efficacy of a strike on Iran.
''We are saying there needs to be time for enhanced sanctions and diplomacy to work,'' said Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street. ''We're trying to calm down the drumbeat of war.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, at a news conference last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LOBBYING (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (89%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



153 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: The Indoctrination Myth

BYLINE: By NEIL GROSS. 
Neil Gross, a professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia, is working on a book about the politics of academia.

 BODY:
THE Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum recently called President Obama a ''snob'' for supporting higher education for all Americans. ''There are good, decent men and women,'' he said, ''who go out and work hard every day and put their skills to test that aren't taught by some liberal college professor trying to indoctrinate them.'' He also called colleges and universities ''indoctrination mills'' for godless liberalism.
But is this true? Does attending college actually make you more liberal and less religious? Research indicates that the answer is: not so much. 
It's certainly true that professors are a liberal lot and that religious skepticism is common in the academy. In a survey of more than 1,400 professors that the sociologist Solon Simmons and I conducted in 2006, covering academics in nearly all fields and in institutions ranging from community colleges to elite universities, we found that about half of the professors identified as liberal, as compared to just one in five Americans over all. In the social sciences, humanities and natural sciences, Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents outnumbered Republicans by a wide margin; among social scientists, for example, there were 10 Democrats for every Republican. Though a majority of professors said that they believed in God, 20 percent were atheists or agnostics -- compared with just 4 percent in the general population.
It's also true that young college graduates are somewhat more likely to identify as liberal and to hold more liberal attitudes on social issues than their non-college-educated peers.
But contrary to conservative rhetoric, studies show that going to college does not make students substantially more liberal. The political scientist Mack Mariani and the higher education researcher Gordon Hewitt analyzed changes in student political attitudes between their freshman and senior years at 38 colleges and universities from 1999 to 2003. They found that on average, students shifted somewhat to the left -- but that these changes were in line with shifts experienced by most Americans between the ages of 18 and 24 during the same period of time. In addition, they found that students were no more likely to move left at schools with more liberal faculties.
Similarly, the political scientists M. Kent Jennings and Laura Stoker analyzed data from a survey that tracked the political attitudes of about 1,000 high school students through their college years and into middle age. Their research found that the tendency of college graduates to be more liberal reflects to a large extent the fact that more liberal students are more likely to go to college in the first place.
Studies also show that attending college does not make you less religious. The sociologists Jeremy Uecker, Mark Regnerus and Margaret Vaaler examined data from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health and found that Americans who pursued bachelor's degrees were more likely to retain their faith than those who did not, perhaps because life at the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder can be rough in ways that chip away at religious belief and participation. They report that students ''who did not attend college and two-year college students are much more likely -- 61 and 54 percent more, respectively -- than four-year college students to relinquish their religious affiliations.''
So why do conservatives persist in attacking higher education? There's no doubt that in terms of overall curricular content and campus culture, most colleges and universities do skew more to the left than to the right. And research by the sociologists Amy Binder and Kate Wood confirms that this can be a frustrating and alienating experience for conservative students, even if it's not serving to indoctrinate anyone.
But that alone doesn't explain the intensity of the animus. Doing so requires some historical perspective. Conservatives have been criticizing academia for many decades. Yet only once the McCarthy era passed did this criticism begin to be cast primarily in anti-elitist tones: charges of Communist subversion gave way to charges of liberal elitism in the writings of William F. Buckley Jr. and others. The idea that professors are snobs looking down their noses at ordinary Americans, trying to push the country in directions it does not wish to go, soon became an established conservative trope, taking its place alongside criticism of the liberal press and the liberal judiciary.
The main reason for this development is that attacking liberal professors as elitists serves a vital purpose. It helps position the conservative movement as a populist enterprise by identifying a predatory elite to which conservatism stands opposed -- an otherwise difficult task for a movement strongly backed by holders of economic power.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTHER MEANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICK SANTORUM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



154 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Feel Like a Million Bucks, Too

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
THERE'S a place on East 58th Street in Manhattan, with no outdoor sign, where George Soros, David Geffen, Paul Volcker, Jules Kroll and other big names in the business and financial world are regulars.
And it's not some exclusive private dining room or mahogany-lined boardroom. It's Sitaras Fitness, which has quietly attracted the upper echelons of Wall Street as members, and in some cases as shareholders.
The center is the brainchild of a bodybuilder, John Sitaras, 39, who along with measuring body fat and biceps has a way of sizing up egos, too. Sometimes, he even juggles the schedules of his 140-plus members to ensure that people who don't get along in the corporate world are working out at different times.
''He's sort of a doctor of fitness,'' says Jack Welch, the corporate legend who headed General Electric from 1981 to 2001. When Mr. Welch suffered a bacterial staph infection in 2009, he was holed up in the hospital for more than three months and had difficulty walking when he returned home to recover. He turned to Mr. Sitaras to help him get back on his feet. 
''A lot of my legs and arms had atrophied -- it was pretty ugly,'' Mr. Welch says. ''John really brought me back.'' Today, Mr. Welch is back on the golf course and, at 76, makes fitness training part of his routine.
Mr. Soros, the billionaire investor and philanthropist, was never one to have time for -- or interest in -- gyms. But he was so impressed with the results that his son Alex, 26, got from Mr. Sitaras that he joined two years ago and now works out regularly. ''My son benefited greatly -- he lost a lot of weight,'' Mr. Soros says.
The senior Mr. Soros, now 81, goes to the gym twice a week. ''It makes me feel better, more alert,'' he says. Mr. Soros, in turn, referred Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, to the club.
It's Mr. Sitaras's proprietary personal training program that separates his center from other high-end clubs. Under the program, clients must undergo six hours of mandatory tests, spread out over six visits, that measure the strength, flexibility and endurance of more than 35 major muscles and joints.
The results are then entered into a software program that Mr. Sitaras designed. It uses more than 5,000 variables, he says, to draw up a personalized fitness program. All clients must commit to at least two personal training sessions a week. Each of their workouts is tracked and monitored, and the program is adjusted as fitness improves.
Mr. Sitaras also recently unveiled an advanced digital tracking room, which notes and evaluates each muscle's capacity, improvement and weakness.
''It's very different from anything I've ever seen anywhere in the world,'' says Fred Adler, the venture capitalist who scored home runs with Silicon Valley investments like Data General, Life Technologies and Daisy Systems. Mr. Adler, 86, is both a club member and a shareholder.
Many Sitaras members are as competitive in the gym as they are in the business world.
Bill Zabel, 75, a lawyer and founding partner of Schulte Roth & Zabel, long claimed the center's record for holding the plank, an exercise that challenges the abdomen and back, and would sidle over to Mr. Sitaras whenever he was assessing a new client to see if his record had been broken, Mr. Sitaras recalls.
Then there's James D. Robinson III, co-founder of the RRE Ventures investment firm and former chairman of American Express. Mr. Robinson, 76, can leg-press 900 pounds, leaving fellow gym members in awe. ''I wanted to do 1,000, but they wouldn't let me,'' he says.
Mr. Sitaras recalls one member, whom he did not want to name, who used to snap his fingers, insisting that the background music be changed to classical when he arrived and demanding access to certain equipment immediately, even if someone else was using it. Members were shocked when Mr. Sitaras revoked his membership.
''In their world, they're at the center of their own universe, but when they come here, each one is not more important than the other, and everyone is on an even playing field,'' he says. ''It's about managing personalities -- big, big, strong personalities -- and I want them to learn how to get along in the sandbox.''
BORN in Chios, Greece, in 1972, Mr. Sitaras moved to the United States with his family when he was 3 months old; they eventually settled in Brooklyn. The son of the owner of a video store and restaurant, he grew up in a rough neighborhood, where, he recalled, gangs stole his bicycle out from under him, along with his money, at the age of 9. He remembers hearing gunshots outside his home at night as a teenager.
Self-conscious about his 5-foot-11, 145-pound frame, he started bodybuilding at the age of 17. ''I was really scrawny, and everyone used to make fun of me,'' he recalls. ''My brother used to call me Tiny Tim.''
He was competing in bodybuilding within a year -- and finished fourth in his first regional competition in 1992. Around the same time, he enrolled in Brooklyn College, where he took pre-med courses, including psychology and nutrition. But by 1993, he was short on cash and dropped out of school to focus on bodybuilding.
Tragedy cut short his bodybuilding career in 1995. While he and his best friend, Boris Levitsky, were eating lunch outside a Brooklyn restaurant, the two were attacked by a local gang carrying bats, leaving Mr. Levitsky dead and Mr. Sitaras in a wheelchair for five months.
''They hit the bat so many times that the bat broke,'' he says. The attack threw Mr. Sitaras into a deep depression, worrying his friends and family. ''That really messed him up for a long time,'' recalls a longtime friend, Brian Spiegel, who used to wheel his friend outside, even in the rain, to get him out of the house.
As Mr. Sitaras recalls it, ''That was a very dark period of my life.''
Once back on his feet, he worked a number of odd jobs: valet parking, truck driving and even acting. (He appeared as an extra in a Jennifer Lopez music video.) But he soon returned to his first love.
''I was obsessed with fitness,'' Mr. Sitaras says. He worked as an assistant for a physiotherapist, Dr. Norman Marcus in Manhattan, and then worked at local fitness clubs such as Sports Club/LA, Sparta, and Lift Fitness, where he built his clientele and reputation.
Unhappy with what he called a cookie-cutter approach to fitness at many gyms, he developed his own system and, with only $17,000, embarked on a plan to open his own gym. ''Within a short period of time, I had a really good following,'' including some well-known Wall Street clients who spread the word among their friends, Mr. Sitaras says.
He picked the brains of those financial clients for business advice -- and received financing from them. Investors put in nearly $1.5 million, and the club opened in November 2007.
''We were so impressed with John and his enthusiasm for having his own place that we worked with him,'' says Mr. Robinson, one of Mr. Sitaras's first shareholders. Mr. Robinson also invited some of his friends, including Mr. Welch, to become members.
Another high-profile member is Jules B. Kroll, 69, the corporate security pioneer and bond rating chief. The center has also attracted heavy-hitters from the entertainment and sports worlds, like the music titan David Geffen and the Nascar champion Jimmie Johnson.
Most members are highly driven and successful in their professional lives and enjoy working out with people who have similar traits, says Larry Neubauer, 45, a partner at the Quilvest private equity firm.
With so many alpha personalities and financial wizards in one space, it's no surprise that wheeling and dealing goes on in the locker rooms and the gym's outdoor lava rock garden. ''You start talking, and someone will say let's go outside for a chat, and this can lead to deals and things,'' Mr. Adler says.
Mr. Sitaras himself was the center of a major shareholder dispute in December 2008. Three of his nine board members, antsy about the economic downturn, wanted to make big changes at the club in order to increase membership and their returns. They started a proxy fight, trying to unseat Mr. Sitaras as C.E.O., dilute his 53 percent ownership stake and transform the gym into a more mainstream club. The three had brought in 17 of the club's 79 members at that time, and threatened to take them away if their demands were not met, jeopardizing the club's finances.
Other shareholders, including Mr. Adler, the venture capitalist, sided with Mr. Sitaras. Eventually the three dissidents were bought out.
The center, which now has 144 members, skews male. Only 20 percent of its 140-plus members are women. Sandra Navidi, founder and chief executive of the financial consulting firm BeyondGlobal, joined in June 2011 after hearing about the club through Mr. Soros. Since joining, she says, ''I go religiously -- when I'm not traveling, I go every other day,'' which is far different from her past experiences, when she'd enroll at a gym and then seldom go.
The membership has a wide age range -- 20s to 80s -- though the highest proportion, about 40 percent, are in their 40s.
Not everyone is accepted into the club. But fame and money aren't the admission cards. Dedication to fitness is, says Mr. Sitaras, who performs all of the assessments personally.
The club doesn't charge big initiation and membership fees, the way many other upscale clubs do. The prestigious CORE club, for example, has a $30,000 initiation fee and a $10,000 annual membership, while the New York Athletic Club has an invitation-only $8,500 initiation fee and $3,030 annual fee.
BUT many of those clubs offer far more than the fitness rooms, equipment and training that the Sitaras gym stresses. Benefits at other clubs may include pools, bowling alleys, golf simulators, basketball courts, aerobics classes, rock climbing, squash courts, massage rooms, yoga, Pilates, sauna, hair salons, lounges and restaurants, where members often spend more time socializing than they do working out. CORE even offers skin care and cultural events such as art exhibits.
Sitaras charges no initiation fee; monthly fees are $150, and members must commit to at least two personal training sessions a week at $115 a pop, which means that total annual fees start at $13,760.
Mr. Adler and Mr. Robinson see the potential for big long-term growth for the Sitaras club through several avenues. Those include the possible expansion of the center's new digital tracking room into clubs in major cities across the country and the planned rollout of a software app that will let everyone -- even nonmembers -- gain access to the Sitaras program online, on mobile phones and on tablets for a monthly fee.
''My goal is to make fitness accessible -- not just for the rich and famous,'' Mr. Sitaras says. ''My goal is to help everyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Sitaras, third from left, runs a Manhattan gym that attracts top executives. Members include, from left, James D. Robinson III, Sandra Navidi, George Soros, Fred Adler and Larry Neubauer.(BU1)
John Sitaras, who began bodybuilding at 17, guides workouts for two members of his club, Larry Neubauer, foreground left, of the Quilvest private equity firm, and Jules Kroll, right photo, the corporate security pioneer and bond rating chief. Clients must take six hours of tests before a personal fitness plan is drawn up. ''I'm in better shape now than I was in my 20s,'' Mr. Neubauer says.
 John Sitaras in the digital tracking room, where clients can review progress. He is thinking of licensing his tracking system to other fitness clubs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); WEIGHTLIFTING (76%); GOLF (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (89%); JACK WELCH (79%); DAVID GEFFEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



155 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
CHINESE VILLAGE'S REVOLUTIONUNLIKELY TO BE REPLICATED
The success of the villagers of Wukan in ousting their local leaders and electing a new committee is unlikely to be a template for change in China. PAGE 6
FEELING SECURE WITH PUTIN
In Lyubertsy and other hardscrabble towns across Russia, residents say they will vote for Vladimir V. Putin in the upcoming presidential election because their desire to live better is outweighed by a persistent fear of living worse. And there is no guarantee that things will remain on track without Mr. Putin at the helm. PAGE 5
NATIONAL
PROPOSED BP DEAL OPENS A NEW PHASE 
The announcement of a proposed deal in the BP civil trial is not the end of the case, but the beginning of a new phase with many unanswered questions. Will the federal government be next to settle? And what will happen to the people who have current claims pending? PAGE 11
LAB BRACES FOR CUTS
There is uncertainty at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, which helped give birth to the Manhattan Project and has been a crucible of the nation's nuclear weapons research. In February the lab announced that it would need to lay off up to 11 percent of its 7,600 permanent employees. PAGE 18
OBAMA TO SPEAK AT BARNARD
President Obama will deliver this year's commencement address at Barnard College, officials at the college and the White House announced. Word of his appearance comes as the White House has seized on Republican attempts to block a requirement for contraception coverage, saying it amounts to a ''war on women.'' PAGE 20
METROPOLITAN
FOR FOOD DELIVERY WORKERS, SPEED, TIPS AND FEAR
Each day, and especially at night, thousands of deliverymen clatter over potholes in streets and crisscross broad delivery zones in a dash for tips. Ubiquitous but largely anonymous, they race through their rounds and deposit food with barely a word to their customers. PAGE 1
POLITICS AT THE FOOD CO-OP
For a few years now, members of the Park Slope Food Co-op have been debating whether the organization should call for boycotts, divestment and sanctions against Israel until it returns all Arab land occupied in 1967. Big City, Ginia Bellafante. PAGE 1
OBITUARIES
ROBERT R. MCELROY, 84
For nearly 20 years, Robert R. McElroy was a staff photographer for Newsweek, but on his own time, he snapped images of the Happenings art movement, a free-spirited blend of art and performance in the late 1950s and early '60s that influenced the course of modern art. PAGE 26
BRUCE SURTEES, 74
Known in particular for his long association with Clint Eastwood, the Oscar-nominated cinematographer Bruce Surtees shot more than a dozen films in which Mr. Eastwood starred, including ''Play Misty for Me'' (1971); ''High Plains Drifter'' (1973) and ''The Outlaw Josey Wales'' (1976). PAGE 26
Arts & Leisure
READ ALL ABOUT IT!
KIDS VEX TITANS!
''Newsies the Musical,'' the latest Disney property to reach Broadway, seems just as rooted in whimsy as past productions like ''Mary Poppins'' and ''The Lion King,'' but its story of newsboys uniting to lead a strike against media titans in New York actually happened. PAGE 1
SPORTS
FROM A STAR TO BE TO ONE WHO NEVER WAS
A decade ago, many were predicting that Lenny Cooke, a New York City prodigy, would become an N.B.A. star. Cooke was a flashy 6-foot-6 guard who flirted with college before entering the 2002 N.B.A. draft -- only to go undrafted, never advancing beyond the summer league teams of the Boston Celtics and the Seattle SuperSonics. PAGE 1
KINGS GUARD GETS NOTICED
Jeremy Lin is not the only player in N.B.A. history to be an immediate success in a team's starting lineup after appearing out of thin air. With the emergence of Isaiah Thomas, the Kings point guard, he was not even the only player to do so in February. Off the Dribble, Benjamin Hoffman. PAGE 3
A LOOK AT THE LIN CRAZE
As a Knicks fan since he was a child, Robert Klein could not have been more delighted about the Jeremy Lin. But as a comedian, Klein has also found very little humor in the insanity part of Linsanity. He hopes Lin's rise will come to be recognized as ''just a great American story.'' PAGE 3
MICHIGAN'S CLIMB BACK
The University of Michigan's Wolverines want to take a serious step forward in the coming weeks, aiming for the Big Ten tournament title and a deep run in the N.C.A.A. tournament. They have struggled to reach the heights the program attained during the late 1980s and early '90s. PAGE 5
TOUGH CHOICE FOR COLTS
The Indianapolis Colts have a hard decision to make. If they do not pay quarterback Peyton Manning a $28 million roster bonus by Thursday -- or renegotiate it -- he will become a free agent. If they pay it, and Manning's neck problems prohibit him from playing in 2012, or ever, the Colts' salary-cap structure is shot. PAGE 5
Sunday Business
LOW INTEREST RATES
DRAW COMPLAINTS
The Fed drove down interest rates to almost zero to shore up big banks and an economy that those banks helped drive off a cliff. Now savers, who did nothing to create the financial crisis, are being punished. This is likely to continue for some time. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
BUILDING A SMARTER RIO
I.B.M. has designed a new operations center for the sprawling city of Rio de Janeiro, coordinating all kinds of city functions under one roof. The company hopes the project will lead to a multibillion-dollar business worldwide. PAGE 1
PRICES THAT SWAY MARKETS
Oil and gas prices have been rising and are beginning to attract considerable attention. How high and how quickly those numbers climb -- and whether they leap above $5 a gallon and morph into a painful symbol of inflation -- could have an enormous impact on the financial markets, the economy and the presidential election. PAGE 4
Automobiles
TIME MACHINE FROM BUICK
RACES BACK TO THE '70S
Buick's reputation for stodgy goes back decades, but the brand has occasionally cut loose with muscle cars, including the GS (or Gran Sport) models of the 1960s and early '70s. Today, a fast-reviving Buick is relying on German sport sedan virtues to shake the old-fogey blues. PAGE 1
T: Magazine
THE TAO AND CRAFT
OF DUSTIN HOFFMAN
Come fortune or failure, the 74-year-old Dustin Hoffman is ready for anything. As with all great actors, there remains the feeling that everything is a performance. PAGE 100
Book Review
BOARDING SCHOOL STUDENTS
SAILING INTO THE STORM
''The Starboard Sea,'' Amber Dermont's engrossing debut novel about a talented young sailor at a New England academy, adeptly charts the fine calibrations of teenage love and shame and the agony of coming of age. Ms. Dermont's prose glides across the ocean, reminding us why writers are so reliably drawn to the water. Review by Eleanor Henderson. PAGE 1
COMRADES, OPTIMIZE!
While many look back on the Soviet Union and fixate on the politics, purges and wars, the British writer Francis Spufford, in his latest high-wire act, has devoted considerable literary muscle to another endeavor. He tells the story of ''an idea,'' the communist dream that mobilized a generation, created one of history's largest industrial monsters and ultimately doomed it to failure. ''Red Plenty,'' as its title suggests, is the story of the Bolshevik promise of abundance. Review by Andrew Miller. PAGE 13
Magazine
IN A CHANGING LONDON,
A LASTING VITALITY
London in 2012, like most other global cities, is in significant flux. Over the last decade, the foreign-born population reached 2.6 million, just about a third of the city. The changing population has inspired a certain amount of nativism in the city, sometimes good-natured, sometimes less so. PAGE 22
FAMOUS ON THE INTERNET
In 2010, Nikki Glaser and Sara Schaefer met at a party. Both felt a real connection and, despite the fact that they didn't know each other, decided that it would be fun and funny to start their own podcast about, basically, getting to know each other. PAGE 17
RICHER THAN WALL STREET
If you follow the flow of money around the world, you might be surprised to find that the central node of finance, the place where money passes through most often, is London. It is the world's center of international transactions. PAGE 14
Editorial
SURVEILLANCE, SECURITY
AND CIVIL LIBERTIES
A series of articles by The Associated Press revealed widespread police spying and the creation of police records containing information on Muslim people, mosques and campus groups, with no apparent reason to think anything wrong was going on. The Justice Department should quickly determine whether the N.Y.P.D.'s surveillance of Muslims warrants a full civil rights investigation. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
HOW TO SPELL RELIEF
Ohio voters had a brief moment of relief from sleazy political ads last year when more than a score of local TV stations exercised a rarely used authority and pulled down a loathsome ad that had pirated content from a rival ad, reversed its message and misled the public. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
DOOMSDAY VIRUS TRUTH
Ron Fouchier, the Dutch scientist who led the key research team about a new strain of the bird flu virus that was reported as having the potential to kill millions of people, is saying that his findings were misconstrued by the press. A truly independent evaluation is needed to ensure safety and reassure the public about the bird flu virus. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
We must not let the poisonous debate about climate change so tie us in knots that we cannot have any energy policy at all, particularly one focused on developing much more efficient use of resources, through better designs and systems. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
MAUREEN DOWD
Rush Limbaugh is brutalizing Sandra Fluke, a poised, 30-year-old Georgetown law student, simply for testifying to lawmakers about wanting the school to amend its health insurance to cover contraception. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
FRANK BRUNI
Politics these days insists that we fit into tidy boxes. Olympia Snowe never did. Unlike the majority of her colleagues in the Senate, she dared to disagree with her party, and she did it publicly, with her votes and her forthright explanations of them. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 3
ROSS DOUTHAT
James Q. Wilson and Andrew Breitbart, prominent conservatives who died last week, helped shape the liberal world -- in their very different styles. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TEST LABORATORIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (64%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (64%); FILM (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); BOYCOTTS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); DIVESTITURES (50%); CONTRACEPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); CLINT EASTWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



156 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Springsteen: More Fanfares For Those Common Men

BYLINE: By JON PARELES and JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
The New York Times's pop critics Jon Pareles and Jon Caramanica discuss Bruce Springsteen's album ''Wrecking Ball,'' to be released Tuesday by Columbia.
JON PARELES Jon, if good intentions were all that mattered, Bruce Springsteen's ''Wrecking Ball'' would be a shoo-in for album of the year -- which is, not coincidentally, an election year. ''Wrecking Ball'' is Springsteen's latest manifesto in support of the workingman, and his direct blast at fat cats and banksters who derailed the economy. It's sincere, ambitious and angry, which can lead to mixed outcomes. It also -- which may be a surprise on an album billed as a broadside -- holds some of Springsteen's most elaborate studio concoctions since ''Born to Run.'' 
The album has been growing on me with each play; it starts out heavy-handed, but by the end it moves from duty to pleasure. Springsteen definitely picked the right title song. ''Wrecking Ball,'' written from the first-person point of view of the old Giants Stadium, turns a conceit into a homily into a hoot. But he was less strategic making ''We Take Care of Our Own'' the first single. In my imagination he was watching that Republican debate when someone in the audience cheered the idea of letting the uninsured die, and his sense of duty kicked in; he thought he should write a song that insists compassion is patriotic. It's a trademark E Street Band sound, from the chord changes to the glockenspiel to the backup vocals, and it feels awkward and hectoring. I don't think, as you wrote after the Grammys, that it's ''jingoistic,'' only that it tries to associate flag-waving nationalism with shared responsibility. But there's much better stuff on the album.
JON CARAMANICA But, Jon, I too was born in the U.S.A., a country with a Constitution that guarantees the freedom of interpretation! We can talk about the intention of the author all day long -- and certainly Bruce's boomer army will do just that -- but the text is far more ambiguous, and in plenty of places on this album, just outright flat.
I agree, it's energizing to hear the type of ambitious arrangements that he'd largely abandoned when he retreated into rural bard mode. And the chill of hearing the booming sax solo on ''Land of Hope and Dreams'' drove me to the liner notes to confirm that, yes, it was Clarence Clemons. And ''We Take Care of Our Own,'' my lyrical bete noire, has the hardest-working music on the album.
But that energy is in service of deeply nebulous ideas. Even if I accept that Bruce is moving in the Pete Seeger tradition, there's no ambiguity in Seeger's vision, political or aesthetic. Bruce keeps it loose, though. Strip out the couple of post-Katrina references in that song, and what's left is a tirade about locating American identity outside of government authority, a nationalism that supersedes even something petty like democracy.
It reminded me of Nashville ideologues like Trace Adkins and the slightly slipperier Toby Keith. Maybe Bruce can write some material for their new albums.
But no, fans will say: He takes on the big-money guys all over this album (though not the ones that financed and built Giants Stadium), but those lyrics feel more crudely drawn than 1970s Saturday morning cartoon villains. More showing, less telling.
PARELES What do you want from him, a tax plan? That points to the problem that only Springsteen has (give or take Neil Young). He's the superstar who is supposed to be impeccably pure of heart and commerce, absolutely serious in his roles as the tribune of the working man and the voice of the (crumbling) American dream but still a full-tilt rock 'n' roll entertainer.
So he's in trouble if he gets too serious, in trouble if he leaves a loophole in a lyric, in trouble if he's too bleak or didactic, in trouble if all he wants to do is think about girls in their summer clothes (though he's actually thinking about mortality and loneliness).
Yet Springsteen has willingly and self-consciously shouldered that role, and has done it far differently from Pete Seeger, the folkie who proudly distrusts commercial pop. Springsteen is doing it as someone who wants to make fully produced recordings and get them heard on the radio, who sells out arenas and is not just populist but still genuinely popular. Face it -- Lady Gaga doesn't want to be Pete Seeger.
On ''Wrecking Ball'' he's trying to stake out a God-and-country liberalism, a gospel of hard, sweaty work and earned income, while venting direct fury at vulture capitalists. He also comes out pro-immigrant, openly romantic (Kenny Chesney could have a hit with ''You've Got It'') and reverent to the point of direct Bible allusions.
Where agitprop folkies would be doing this rhetorical heavy lifting over a righteously austere acoustic guitar, Springsteen only starts there. The music lifts this album out of its hard-times gloom, and charges off all over the place: roots Americana, electric guitars, synthesizers, orchestra. He's barking ''Death to My Hometown'' flanked by Celtic pennywhistle over sampled Sacred Harp gospel singers (via Alan Lomax). When he sings about visiting a graveyard and remembering the dead in ''We Are Alive,'' what bubbles up but the country-mariachi bounce of ''Ring of Fire''? It's not all sodden earnestness.
CARAMANICA I would like the title of the next Springsteen album to be his effective tax rate. And some liner notes about the Buffett Rule, maybe.
But when he does get specific on this album, it's disorienting. If you believe ''We Are Alive,'' then striking 1877 Maryland railroad workers rest alongside Birmingham civil rights agitators and also next to Mexican border crossers. One cause at a time, please. And when Springsteen intones, ''I'll mow your lawn, clean the leaves out your drain'' in ''Jack of All Trades,'' the sodden workingman empathy literally made me nauseous.
You say that Springsteen gets in trouble if all he thinks about are those evanescent summer girls, and maybe that's true, but one of the high points on this album for me is ''You've Got It.'' It's Bruce at his prime sexiness, that heavy-breathing oratory of his aimed away from the laborers and the overlords and squarely at a tender young thing. ''You've got it in your bones and blood/You're real as real ever was,'' he says, the hot air leaving a damp coat of lust on his target's ear. He sounds predatory, lecherous, spent. It's bracing.
That's the Springsteen I find most provocative, the one who balances sensuality with dogma, who understands the body as a locus of pleasure, not just labor. When the music is joyous on this album, it does what his words and voice often cannot: generates goodwill. Let's not talk about that Sam Cooke nod at the top of ''Land of Hope and Dreams,'' though.
PARELES You've definitely zeroed in on some of the weak spots. Yes, ''Jack of All Trades'' verges on self-parody. And the geographical and political spread in ''We Are Alive'' is startling -- though with Calvary Hill in sight, I don't think that's supposed to be some particular graveyard in Jersey, and by the time the banjo comes plinking in, I don't really care.
One odd thing Springsteen does on this album is to all but set aside one of his major skills: storytelling through a single character or two. Giants Stadium and the guy in ''You've Got It'' end up being the album's most three-dimensional characters.
It's as if Springsteen assigned himself to merge Woody Guthrie and gospel, all archetypes and declarations. Which means the lyric booklet isn't the place to start. If you read ''Shackled and Drawn'' or ''Rocky Ground,'' you think they're going to be a chore. But ''Shackled and Drawn'' genuinely shakes its fist and howls, while ''Rocky Ground'' -- even with an unnecessary rap shoehorned in -- ends up redemptive.
There's been a lot of triumphal, fanfaring rock and hip-hop around. Just for a change it's encouraging to hear a big sound that's linked not to individual aggrandizement or indulgence, but to something more unselfish.
CARAMANICA And yet this possibly unselfish or maybe even generous album, and artist, inspires so much self-righteousness. I'd say take me back to ''Nebraska,'' but I fear the only thing worse than late-Bruce boosterism is early-Bruce nostalgia.
You're totally right about the lack of characters here. He's losing definition in his voice, but in ways that are less interesting than Bob Dylan, Neil Young or Tom Waits. He's picking obvious targets, painting them with wide brushes, then taking cannon shots that can't miss.
But here's the thing: The idea that there's only one sort of Bruce listener is outmoded, a vestige of leftist ideological privilege. My feeling is that since ''The Rising,'' his skepticism and grand-scale empathy have ceded some space to make room for hubris, smugness and chest thumping, and that's made room for all sorts of readings, all types of embraces.
I agree with you about ''Shackled and Drawn.'' It feels like a genuine modern-day blues. But that line near the end gets me: ''It's still fat and easy up on Banker's Hill/Up on Banker's Hill, the party's going strong.'' I bet they're listening to Bruce.
PARELES In the end I don't think we're all that far apart on this album. Though I like it better than ''Magic'' or ''Working on a Dream,'' I'm not touting it up there alongside his first seven albums -- seven albums! -- or ''The Rising.'' We've picked at its flaws and missteps; it's got plenty of ups and downs.
But smugness? Hubris? I don't hear that. It's not as if Springsteen has been some pampered, out-of-touch rock star who was totaling up his sponsorship deals when he noticed Occupy Wall Street on his giant flat-screen TV last year. This has been his main mission at least since ''Born to Run'': Think about America, especially its embattled working class, and sympathize, analyze, console, commemorate, compress, speak up, give everyone a rousing chorus.
Springsteen has been listening to arenas singing along for three decades. It's an act of will for him to still search for musical and verbal nuance while staying terse, to not be condescending or demagogic, to say what he considers important, knowing how loud it's going to be. Sure, he's firing a cannon this time. At least he's firing it in the right direction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bruce Springsteen's new album ''Wrecking Ball'' comes out Tuesday. Above, Mr. Springsteen with the saxophonist Clarence Clemons in Munich in 2009. Below, Mr. Springsteen performing at the Grammy Awards last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY CLINCH
CHRISTOF STACHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); SONG WRITING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); MUSIC (72%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); WRITERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (55%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



157 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Romney Takes Washington Ahead of a Big Election Day

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Mitt Romney won Saturday's nonbinding caucuses in Washington State, handing him a symbolic victory in his quest for the Republican nomination as he heads into the critical Super Tuesday contests just three days away.
The vote was a nonbinding straw poll and has no bearing on the selection of the state's 43 delegates. Of those, 40 are up for grabs, but they will not be picked until later.
All four candidates remaining in the race -- Mr. Romney, Rick Santorum, Representative Ron Paul and Newt Gingrich -- actively campaigned in Washington, but none concentrated their efforts there as intensely as Mr. Paul. 
The victory gives Mr. Romney some momentum heading into the big contests this week on Super Tuesday, when 10 states vote. With 81 percent of the Washington votes counted on Saturday night, Mr. Romney had won about 37 percent, with Mr. Paul at 25 percent, Mr. Santorum at 24 percent and Mr. Gingrich at 11 percent.
''The voters of Washington have sent a signal that they do not want a Washington insider in the White House,'' Mr. Romney said in a statement as he campaigned in Ohio. All three of his opponents are tied to the nation's capital, but he has focused his attacks on Mr. Santorum as an insider who does not understand the economy.
''They want a conservative businessman who understands the private sector,'' Mr. Romney said.
Before the caucuses, Mr. Romney visited Bellevue, Wash., on Friday, in the western, more moderate part of the state, while Mr. Santorum held events on Thursday in Spokane and Pasco, both more conservative areas.
Mr. Paul was the only candidate in the state on Saturday, greeting caucusgoers on Saturday in Puyallup. At some of the sites, his supporters cried foul, saying they had been asked to declare that they were registered Republicans.
This is the first time in recent history that Washington's nominating contest has come before Super Tuesday, and as a result, it was positioned to influence that big day.
As the caucuses unfolded on Saturday, Mr. Romney, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich all campaigned in Ohio, the most coveted of the 10 states voting on Tuesday. Georgia, which also votes on Tuesday, has more delegates, but Ohio is a major battleground in the fall, while Georgia is all but certain to vote Republican.
A victory in Ohio seems almost essential for Mr. Santorum, who has said he can beat President Obama in the fall because he can appeal to blue-collar voters in similar swing states. In the town of Blue Ash, Mr. Santorum promised that he would transform the ''Rust Belt'' into the ''Stainless Steel Belt.''
But his onetime lead in the polls there has dissipated since Mr. Romney won Michigan. A Quinnipiac University poll conducted on Wednesday and Thursday showed Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney in a dead heat.
Mr. Santorum also faces delegate issues in Ohio. He failed to file full slates in three of the state's Congressional districts, so he is not eligible to compete for all of the state's 48 bound delegates who are up for grabs.
Mike DeWine, Ohio's attorney general and a Santorum backer, said in an interview that if Mr. Santorum won the popular vote in a district in which he had no delegates, he would seek to be awarded its delegates after the fact. ''If he carries a Congressional district, it would be totally unfair for voters of that district to have their will overridden,'' Mr. DeWine said.
The Romney campaign said Mr. Santorum's failure to file a full slate in Ohio, and his failure to get on the ballot at all in Virginia, showed that he was ill-equipped to take on Mr. Obama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); RON PAUL (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012



158 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Cantor and Coburn Give Romney Key Conservative Backing

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Right before the Virginia primary, Mitt Romney gets a major boost from a fiscal conservative. 

 BODY:
11:16 a.m. | Updated Representative Eric Cantor, a Republican from Virginia and the majority leader in the House, endorsed Mitt Romney on Sunday for the Republican presidential nomination, giving the former governor of Massachusetts important backing from a leading lawmaker known for his fiscal conservatism. 
And another fiscal conservative, Senator Tom Coburn, also gave his backing to the former Massachusetts governor.
Mr. Cantor, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," said he was backing Mr. Romney because he was best able to improve the economy.
 "What I have seen is a very hard-fought primary. And we have seen now that the central issue about the campaign now is the economy," Mr. Cantor said in making the endorsement. "I just think there's one candidate in the case who can do that, and it's Mitt Romney."
His endorsement is significant because Mr. Cantor is perceived as a true conservative at a time when many in the party have expressed concern that Mr. Romney is too much of a moderate. Mr. Cantor's decision obviously means he has decided against backing either of the two candidates -- Rick Santorum or Newt Gingrich -- who present themselves as true conservatives and who are former members of the House.
The endorsement comes just two days ahead of the Super Tuesday primaries, where Mr. Cantor's home state of Virginia is among the 10 states voting, although Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul are the only ones on the ballot there.
Mr. Cantor's support could be a sign that Republican leaders who had been sitting on the fence are now willing to show their hand in what has become a hotly contested battle that some in the party feel has been potentially damaging to the party's chances in the November general election.
Senator Coburn endorsed Mr. Romney by also highlighting economic issues.
"I'm proud to support Romney because he is a leader," he wrote in an opinion piece in the Oklahoman. "What Romney has done in his 25 years in the private sector is precisely what we need a president to do in Washington. Romney has done hard things. He has turned businesses around, told people hard truths about what needed to be done, inspired confidence and overcome excuses. Romney is not a career politician or a career legislator. As a former governor and business leader, he is an executive who knows how to use executive power."
Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, welcomed the endorsement:
"I've got to believe in the back of his mind he's also thinking about maintaining a Republican majority in the House, and elected Republicans are looking for someone who has coattails, not concrete shoes. And I think nominating a person who doesn't have any experience in the private sector, has been a Washington insider all of his life like Rick Santorum, is not a good contrast for the Republican party to put up against Barack Obama. I think the best contrast on jobs and the economy is to nominate Mitt Romney, who spent his entire career in the private sector."
"Republican want coattails, not concrete shoes. Rick Santorum is a concrete shoe for Republicans who are running for the Senate or for the House."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); CONSERVATISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%) Cantor, Eric; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Conservatism (US Politics); Endorsements; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Virginia; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (94%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); TOM COBURN (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); RICK SANTORUM (78%) Cantor, Eric; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



159 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Other People's Suffering

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Will the presidential election be decided by how compassionate voters feel this year? 

 BODY:
The publication last week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of "Higher Social Class Predicts Increased Unethical Behavior" provided fresh fodder for the liberal critique of the Republican Party and the corporate ethic.
The paper, by Paul K. Piff of the University of California, Berkeley, and four colleagues, reports that members of the upper class are more likely than others to behave unethically, to lie during negotiations, to drive illegally and to cheat when competing for a prize.
"Greed is a robust determinant of unethical behavior," the authors conclude. "Relative to lower-class individuals, individuals from upper-class backgrounds behaved more unethically in both naturalistic and laboratory settings."
The Piff paper is part of an extensive academic critique of the right. In a paper published last year, "Class and Compassion: Socioeconomic Factors Predict Responses to Suffering," Jennifer E. Stellar, also of Berkeley, writing with three colleagues, points out that:
Our findings suggest that when a person is suffering, upper-class individuals perceive these signals less well on average, consistent with other findings documenting reduced empathic accuracy in upper-class individuals (Kraus et al., 2010). Taken together, these findings suggest that upper-class individuals may underestimate the distress and suffering in their social environments.
A third scholarly essay, "Power, Distress, and Compassion: Turning a Blind Eye to the Suffering of Others," produced similarly striking findings. In a test measuring empathy, each participant was assigned to listen, face to face, from two feet away, to someone else describing real personal experiences of suffering and distress.
The listeners' responses were measured two ways, first by self-reported levels of compassion and second by electrocardiogram readings to determine the intensity of their emotional response. The participants all took a test known as the "sense of power" scale, ranking themselves on such personal strengths and weaknesses as ''I can get people to listen to what I say'' and ''I can get others to do what I want," as well as ''My wishes do not carry much weight'' and ''Even if I voice them, my views have little sway,'' which are reverse scored.
The findings were noteworthy, to say the least. For "low-power" listeners, compassion levels shot up as the person describing suffering became more distressed. Exactly the opposite happened for "high-power" listeners: their compassion dropped as distress rose.
Who fits the stereotype of the rich and powerful described in this research? Mitt Romney. Empathy: "I'm not concerned about the very poor." Compassion: "I like being able to fire people who provide services to me." Sympathy for the disadvantaged: My wife "drives a couple of Cadillacs." Willingness to lie in negotiations: "I was a severely conservative Republican governor."
While Romney and many of his fellow Republicans in the House and Senate go over the line on callousness, what about the other side of the aisle? Are Democrats too compassionate?
A Zogby poll of 2,225 likely voters released on June 1 last year found that 48 percent described the Democratic Party as "weak," compared to 28 percent who described the Republican Party that way. Conversely, 50 percent said the Republican Party is "cold hearted," compared to 30 percent who said that was true of the Democrats.
Ambivalence has become problematic for each party as the weaknesses of one mirror the strengths of the other. From a conservative point of view, Bill O'Reilly captured this tension in a televised commentary:
This is the war that is raging throughout America. It is between conservatives, who emphasize personal responsibility and achievement, against liberals, who say the government must take from the wealthy and give to the poor. So it will be interesting this week to see if President Obama can rally the country to support his vision of a strong social compact. He has compassion on his side. Few Americans want to see their fellow citizens suffer. But the president does have that fiscal responsibility issue haunting him because the country remains in dire trouble.
Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg has argued that voters see a lack of spine in how his own party has allowed government to work "for the irresponsible, not the responsible." To counter this, Greenberg argues that liberals and Democrats must shift gears and become "instinctively angry" with government policies that appear to promote irresponsibility "and build their politics from there."
If the O'Reilly and Greenberg analyses are accurate, Democrats would benefit from the acquisition of some, but not all, of the character traits that make a successful C.E.O.
"Objectification," for example, is anathema to liberals. But, as Deborah H. Gruenfeld of the Stanford School of Business and three colleagues note in "Power and the Objectification of Social Targets," the ability to view others in instrumental terms has certain advantages in the corporate arena - advantages applicable to politics as well.
For power holders, the world is viewed through an instrumental lens, and approach is directed toward those individuals who populate the useful parts of the landscape. Our results suggest that power not only channels its possessor's energy toward goal completion but also targets and attempts to harness the energy of useful others. Thus, power appears to be a great facilitator of goal pursuit through a combination of intrapersonal and interpersonal processes. The nature of the power holder's goals and interpersonal relationships ultimately determine how power is harnessed and what is accomplished in the end.
Republicans recognize the political usefulness of objectification, capitalizing on "compassion fatigue," or the exhaustion of empathy, among large swathes of the electorate who are already stressed by the economic collapse of 2008, high levels of unemployment, an epidemic of foreclosures, stagnant wages and a hyper-competitive business arena.
Compassion fatigue was fully evident in Rick Santelli's 2009 rant on CNBC denouncing a federal plan to prop up "losers' mortgages" at taxpayer expense, a rant that helped spark the formation of the Tea Party. Republican debates provided further evidence of compassion fatigue when audiences cheered the record-setting use of the death penalty in Texas and applauded the prospect of a gravely ill pauper who, unable to pay medical fees, was allowed to die.
Even Rick Santorum, who has been described by the National Review as holding "unstinting devotion to human dignity" and as fluent in "the struggles of the working class," wants to slash aid to the poor. At a Feb. 21 gathering of 500 voters in Maricopa County, Ariz., Santorum brought the audience to its feet as he declared:
We need to take everything from food stamps to Medicaid to the housing programs to education and training programs, we need to cut them, cap them, freeze them, send them to the states, say that there has to be a time limit and a work requirement, and be able to give them the flexibility to do those programs here at the state level.
For both parties, one of the driving forces pushing candidates to extremes is the ideological pressure of primary electorates. This pressure was more intense in the Democratic Party in the 1970s and 1980s when the party became home to the anti-war and women's rights movements, but in recent years the agenda of the Tea Party and the ultra-right has come to dominate the discourse in Republican primaries at all levels.
President Obama has a substantial advantage this year because he does not have a primary challenger, which frees him from the need to emphasize his advocacy for the disempowered - increasing benefits or raising wages for the poor. This allows him to pick and chose the issues he wants to address.
At the same time, compassion fatigue may make it easier for the Republican nominee to overcome the liabilities stemming from his own primary rhetoric, to reach beyond the core of the party to white centrist voters less openly drawn to hard-edged conservatism. With their capacity for empathy frayed by a pervasive sense of diminishing opportunity and encroaching shortfall, will these voters once again become dependable Republicans in 2012?

        
Mitt Romney's Thirst
        
Rick Santorum's Pincer Movement
        
There They Go Again
        
The Silver Medalists
        
In Praise of Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (83%); POLITICS (77%); WRITERS (75%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (64%) Barack Obama; compassion; Empathy; Mitt Romney; presidential election of 2012; Rick Santorum; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



160 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WRIGHT, WILLIAM

 BODY:
WRIGHT--William. A former publishing executive who is credited with helping to revive the industry in the 1990s, died on February 26, 2012 surrounded by family at his home in Zionsville, Ind. He was 62 years old. 
The cause was complications from ocular melanoma, a rare cancer, his daughter Diana said. His strong and loving character, wisdom and generosity will be missed by all. Mr. Wright had a reputation in the publishing industry as a strong motivational leader. He left the Chief Operating Officer post at Random House Inc, to serve as President and CEO of the Hearst Book Group in 1995 after the publisher fell into tumult when many of its top authors and editors defected. Mr. Wright streamlined costs and grew the business by attracting new editorial talent. He published numerous bestselling books from authors as diverse as Pope John Paul II, President George H. W. Bush, Sidney Sheldon and Whoopi Goldberg. Mr. Wright was dedicated to promoting the publishing industry and serving his community. He was a past Chairman of New York is Book Country and was a board member of the Association of American Publishers from 1996 to 1998. While at the helm of Hearst Book Group he was a strong advocate for Literacy Volunteers, a statewide network of community-based volunteer services that exists to foster and strengthen literate communities throughout New York. His community service continued during his retirement. He served as a volunteer for Child Advocates of Indiana, an organization that intervenes on behalf of abused and neglected children. Prior to joining Random House in 1992, Wright was Senior Vice President of Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group. Before that he was Senior Vice President of CBS Educational and Professional Publishing. He joined CBS in 1980 as Director of Distribution and went on to hold several positions of increasing responsibility. Mr. Wright held a B.S. in Economics from Villanova University (1972) and an M.B.A from Temple University (1973). Bill received a scholorship to play basketball at Villanova but later relinquished his scholarship to focus on the arrival of his first child. "Despite his pressing job and community service responsibilities, Bill remained close to his children and remarked in his final hours that their success and happiness as adults was his proudest accomplishment," remarked Patricia Reber, his beloved longtime executive assistant. Mr. Wright is survived by his second wife Chandra of Zionsville, IN, his daughter Diana Wright Milkowski and her husband Matt Milkowski of Rumson, NJ and his son Jason Wright of Manhattan. He is also survived by grandchildren Kevin, Jake, Lyla and Mia and stepchildren Brittany, Charles and Corttany. There will be a memorial service at Assumption Church in Fairfield, CT on Friday, March 9, 2012 at 2pm. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Opportunity Network, 55 Exchange Place, Suite 503, New York, NY 10005 or online at opportunitynetwork.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD WELFARE (87%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); SKIN CANCER (72%); EYE CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); BESTSELLERS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); CHILD ABUSE (64%); STEPPARENTS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (93%); BANTAM DELL PUBLISHING GROUP (84%); RANDOM HOUSE INC (83%); EDUCATIONAL & PROFESSIONAL PUBLISHING GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (55%); LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



161 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Death Toll Grows to 16 in Head-On Collision of 2 Trains in Poland

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Anatol Magdziarz contributed reporting from Warsaw.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- The death toll in the high-speed, head-on collision of two passenger trains in Poland rose to 16 people on Sunday, with the authorities asking how both ended up on the same track.
Prosecutors said that they had opened an investigation, but it was not immediately clear what caused the accident, and they had not ruled out human error. The stretch of track where the collision occurred was modernized last year, the transportation minister, Slawomir Nowak, said.
''We need to wait for a detailed report of an independent commission,'' Mr. Nowak told reporters at the scene, ''then we will need to calmly take a stand.'' 
The crash, which occurred outside the town of Szczekociny, north of Krakow, was the worst such accident in Poland in more than 20 years. The trains were carrying about 350 people when they collided shortly after 9 p.m. on Saturday. In addition to the fatalities, 58 passengers were injured, many seriously, the authorities said.
An American woman was among those killed, said Benjamin Ousley Naseman, a spokesman for the United States Consulate in Krakow. Her family had been notified, but the woman's name had not been released, pending an official list of the victims that the Polish authorities were putting together.
Prime Minister Donald Tusk rushed to the scene of what he called ''the most dramatic train catastrophe in our history for many, many years.'' Survivors described a powerful collision, followed by the screams of the injured and frightened passengers.
Many of Poland's trains are older models, noticeably less advanced than the high-speed trains in neighboring Germany. Tracks and stations across the country are being improved to prepare for the European soccer championship, for which Poland and Ukraine are co-hosts this summer.
The impending arrival of millions of soccer fans for the event, known as Euro 2012, was already expected to put pressure on the nation's transportation infrastructure. The crash has put pressure on officials to find answers behind the deadly accident and correct any problems quickly.
Poland has developed rapidly in recent years, and it was the only country in the European Union that did not slip into recession in the wake of the global financial crisis. Yet the government has tried to rein in spending to avoid contagion from the European debt crisis. The countryside offers a study in contrasts, with gleaming new office parks next to rundown buildings from the Communist era.
One of the trains that collided on Saturday was traveling from Przemysl, near the Ukrainian border, to Warsaw, the other was southbound from Warsaw to Krakow, one of the busiest stretches in the country. Travelers described a chaotic and gruesome scene, with bodies and severed limbs caught in the twisted wreckage. Television footage from the site showed crumpled, derailed passenger cars piled on top of one another at odd angles.
''We couldn't take our legs out. The firemen helped us. Our legs were stuck between two seat rows,'' one survivor, Piotr Sikora, told the Polish television station TVN24. He described ''a thud, darkness, everything flying in all directions.''
More than 450 firefighters and 100 police officers responded to the crash. Heavy equipment was needed to cut both survivors and the dead from the wreckage, and two helicopters were used to airlift the injured to hospitals. On Sunday, emergency workers used dogs to search the wreckage for survivors.
President Bronislaw Komorowski said a national period of mourning would be declared. The disaster comes less than two years after a plane crash claimed the life of his predecessor, Lech Kaczynski, and 95 other members of Poland's political, military and religious elite.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Search teams looked for victims Sunday as investigators tried to figure out how trains traveling in opposite directions ended up on the same track. Poland has been modernizing its rail system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTOSZ SIEDLIK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SOCCER (68%); EURO CRISIS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); CREDIT CRISIS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); SPORTS FANS (63%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) POLAND (98%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UKRAINE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



162 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: A Government Bailout Saved the Auto Industry, but the City of Detroit Was Left Behind

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

 BODY:
DETROIT
Sometime soon, probably by the end of April, the city of Detroit is likely to run out of cash. Its revenues are falling and its expenses are growing. If that happens, paychecks will not be issued, doors of public buses and city agencies could be closed, and streetlights will be shut off in more neighborhoods.
Having lost so much -- a quarter-million people in just a decade, its industrial base, its political clout -- Detroit is now on the verge of losing control of its ability to make its own decisions. If it does not find a way to quickly stabilize its finances through spending cuts and union concessions, the state may appoint a manager to take over its budget from the mayor and the City Council. 
No one, least of all the state, wants that to happen. In Michigan, emergency managers can break union contracts, fire city officials and sell off city assets. That has already begun in four other cities, all of them largely black, that the state has taken over in the last few years. Black officials and union leaders have charged that Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican elected in 2010, has an ideological and racial agenda, and taking over Detroit, which is 83 percent black, would only magnify the tension.
Muscling the city aside would clearly be undemocratic, and it is not even clear how effective it would be. The state took over Detroit's schools in 2009, and has little to show for it yet except for more closed schools and a continuing exodus of students and teachers. But an emergency manager may be inevitable.
Detroit simply does not have a large enough tax base to pay for city services and billions in long-term liabilities. The turnaround in the auto industry brought about by the government bailout has been good news for Michigan and the region, and has helped lower the state's jobless rate to 9.3 percent from 14.1 percent in 2009. Little of that, however, has trickled inside the city limits, where the unemployment rate is estimated by city officials at close to 30 percent.
The city that once teemed with auto plants now has only two, a Chevrolet and a Chrysler factory. Chrysler's gritty new slogan, ''Imported From Detroit,'' is a bit painful to local residents who know that the Chrysler 200, featured in an Eminem ad, is made in the suburbs, and the 300 and the Town & Country are made across the river in Ontario.
Chrysler's gleaming Jefferson North plant on the east side of town does churn out Jeep Cherokees and Dodge Durangos, and President Obama noted in a speech last week that it has been adding new shifts. But it is not enough. Just blocks from the plant is some of America's worst urban devastation, acre upon acre of vacant land, abandoned houses, burned-out stores. A city that held nearly two million people in the 1950s is now down to 714,000, more than a third of whom live in poverty.
There are glimmers of hope on the city's southwest side, where newcomers from Mexico and other countries have revived several avenues with restaurants, groceries and other stores. ''More diversity, more immigrants -- that's the key for the future,'' said Jordi Carbonell, born in Barcelona, who runs Cafe con Leche, a coffeehouse crowded with young patrons and laptops.
But rebuilding the city with coffee cups will take too long, and Detroit is running out of time. Crime is going up, buses are breaking and left unrepaired, and the exodus continues. Even if City Hall can stave off a takeover with union givebacks, layoffs and pension cuts, it will only be for a short time.
The solution may be in the suburbs that have siphoned off Detroit's money and jobs and talent for decades. A true emergency manager, as many people here have suggested, would have the power to begin merging the tax base of the city with that of suburban counties in hopes of saving the region. Bailouts can come in many different forms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BAILOUTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); MAYORS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); SUBURBS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); RICK SNYDER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



163 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Apple's Job Creation Data Spurs an Economic Debate

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
Apple has made its first attempt to quantify how many American jobs can be credited to the sale of its iPads and other products, a group that includes the Apple engineers who design the devices and the drivers who deliver them -- even the people who build the trucks that get them there.
On Friday, the company published the results of a study it commissioned saying that it had ''created or supported'' 514,000 American jobs. The study is an effort to show that Apple's benefit to the American job market goes far beyond the 47,000 people it directly employs here. 
Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., released the study on its Web site but declined to say why it published the results.
The company's employment practices have come under closer examination. Apple and other high-tech companies, including Internet companies, employ relatively few people compared with other stalwarts of American business, like General Motors and General Electric in their heyday.
Apple, which is now the world's most valuable company, has created more jobs overseas, approximately 700,000 through a network of suppliers that make iPhones, iPads and other products.
The accuracy of the Apple jobs calculation in the United States may well be debated among economists for years. ''Apple has a big effect, and big is about as precise as I can make it,'' said Gary P. Pisano, a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School. ''It's hard to say the exact size.''
David Autor, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said via e-mail that the ''entire business of claiming 'direct and indirect' job creation is disreputable'' because most of the workers Apple is taking credit for would have been employed elsewhere in the company's absence.
''But of course, they might not have been as well paid or gratified with their work,'' Mr. Autor said. ''We'll never know.''
Mr. Autor also said that Apple should not be held accountable for employment problems in the United States. ''Generating the conditions that give rise to high rates of employment and wage growth is the domain of policy makers, not individual companies,'' he said.
A number of companies, including Microsoft, have commissioned similar research aiming to tally up such indirect employment, by suppliers and other partners. The use of ''job multipliers'' has become common practice, sometimes by businesses lobbying for tax breaks from local and state governments.
But the calculations of such multipliers are often fiercely debated both in economic and political terms. For instance, the Congressional Budget Office, which calculated the impact of the 2009 federal stimulus on jobs, has set estimates that vary between as few as 1.6 million jobs and as many as 8.4 million jobs.
Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, says companies often have a stronger case when quantifying their effects on a regional economy, rather than on the entire national economy. It does matter to a state, for example, whether a big business is there, though it might not matter nationally if the business moves to a different state, he said.
The Analysis Group, the consulting firm Apple hired, concluded that 257,000 jobs were in companies that work directly with Apple, including employees in Kentucky and New York at Corning, a company that creates glass for the iPhone, and people at a Samsung plant in Texas.
The Analysis Group arrived at that figure by analyzing how much Apple spent on goods and services in the United States in 2011 and applying that information to a formula developed by the federal government's Bureau of Economic Analysis called an ''employment multiplier.'' The group used this multiplier to calculate direct and indirect employment figures from Apple's spending, though it omitted any jobs created through spending by those people on, say, nannies, vacation homes or restaurants.
Among the outside jobs Apple said it helped support were the delivery services that bring packages of Apple devices to its retail stores and directly to customers' homes. Norman Black, a spokesman for United Parcel Service, said the company estimated that for every 40 new packages a day transported through its system, the company hired one more person. He declined to say how many packages Apple shipped through U.P.S. and, therefore, how many jobs could be credited to the company.
''They rely on us for a lot of shipping,'' Mr. Black said. ''There's no question that as they roll out and launch products, that's creating new jobs in the U.S.''
Apple's study said the company also supported an additional 210,000 jobs among companies creating apps for Apple devices like the iPhone and iPad. The study based that figure on the 466,000 app-related jobs that TechNet, a high-tech lobbying group, recently estimated existed in the United States. Apple's study estimated that 45 percent of that figure could be credited to development of software for Apple devices, based on an analysis of online job listings.
While several economists and employment experts agree that Apple has an economic impact that goes beyond the people it directly employs, they said it was difficult to conclude from Apple's study what the company's benefit is to the overall jobs market. ''They certainly have a big economic impact, as does every other firm,'' Mr. Cappelli said. ''If you say, 'If there had been no Apple, those people would not have jobs,' that's not true.''
As an example, Mr. Cappelli said that if there were no iPad, the $500 an Apple customer would have spent on the device most likely would not have been put into savings, but rather spent on some other product or service. That impact could have been more or less than Apple's. Apple is, however, an innovative company that created a market for tablets and radically increased demand for smartphones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); SMARTPHONES (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LOBBYING (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (62%); WEB SITES (54%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



164 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers In Europe Feel Squeeze From 2 Sides

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Life is already pretty miserable for European makers of midprice cars, and from the looks of the Geneva auto show, it is about to get worse.
Companies like Opel, the European unit of General Motors, and PSA Peugeot Citroen of France already suffer from a surplus of production at a time when the European car market is shrinking and the economy is under stress from the debt crisis. At the same time, they are under pressure at the low end of the market from the likes of the South Korean carmaker Hyundai Motor and its affiliate Kia.
Now carmakers like BMW and Daimler's Mercedes-Benz unit are pushing ever more aggressively into turf previously owned by mass-market car companies like Fiat or Ford of Europe, with sporty, fuel-efficient cars that come with luxury features.
''They're being squeezed,'' Tim Urquhart, a senior analyst at IHS Automotive, said of the middle-class auto companies. ''It's unfortunate if you're one of those carmakers.'' 
At the Geneva show, which opens to the press on Tuesday and the public on Thursday, Mercedes will introduce a new generation of its A-Class compact made in Hungary, while BMW will unveil a prototype, van-like variation on the Mini, the vehicle that has arguably showed the industry how to make money from small cars.
Volkswagen's Audi unit, having already moved into the subcompact segment with the A1, will take the wraps off the first redesign in almost a decade of the A3. The car, a kind of sporty small wagon, has been a huge hit in Europe, though it has made less of a mark in the United States. Volvo, now under Chinese ownership, will introduce a compact wagon called the V40.
Even Porsche is moving down market, in relative terms, with plans for an S.U.V. priced below the Cayenne and a two-seat roadster that will be less expensive than the Boxster.
The premium carmakers have managed to deploy their brand prestige to get buyers to pay a few thousand euros more for vehicles that, in purely practical terms, may not be dramatically better than Fords, Opels or Fiats.
Consider the basic BMW Mini and the Ford Fiesta. ''They are both excellent cars to drive,'' Mr. Urquhart said. ''The Fiesta might even be better.'' Yet the least expensive Mini starts at 15,550, or $20,500, in Germany while even the top-of-the line ''Titanium'' version of the Fiesta lists for 700 less. So even though the Fiesta has been a top-seller for Ford of Europe -- and has helped the company gain market share -- it is unlikely that the car delivers the same profit margin as the Mini.
''The Fiesta is a really well-designed, attractive car,'' Mr. Urquhart said. ''Everything about it is right. For whatever reason it doesn't have that cachet, that X factor.''
The two companies that appear to be suffering most acutely at the moment are G.M.'s Opel and Peugeot Citroen. Both sell most of their cars in Europe, which makes it more difficult for them to compensate for slack volume by exporting to more dynamic markets in Asia. Opel was largely responsible for the $747 million loss that G.M. reported for its European operations in 2011, while Peugeot Citroen's automotive division lost 439 million last year. Both companies have been trying to move into the high end, but face tough going against Mercedes, BMW and Audi.
G.M. said last week that it would take a 7 percent stake in Peugeot Citroen and cooperate to design major components. But analysts say that more radical steps will be needed to restore profitability, including plant closings.
Fiat of Italy and Renault of France are also losing overall market share in Europe, while BMW and Daimler are gaining.
All of the mass-market carmakers have more factory capacity than they need. Yet closing plants to cut costs is an agonizing undertaking in Europe. Political resistance is enormous because of the devastating economic effect that the demise of a car factory has on the surrounding community.
The West European market is only getting worse, falling 7.9 percent in January from a year earlier, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association. Yet hard-pressed European governments are not in a position to subsidize the industry the way they did during the slump of 2009 with various kinds of scrappage schemes. This time the car companies will probably be on their own.
In fact, the problems of the mass-market carmakers raise the question of whether it is possible to make money selling cars that are merely very good, as opposed to very good plus sexy, quirky or prestigious.
''In the current environment it's very hard to make money,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen who follows the car industry. Mr. Dudenhoffer said that incentives offered by dealers to prospective buyers in Europe are at their highest in five years, cutting deeply into profits.
Even Volkswagen, the largest carmaker in Europe, earns more from Audi than from lower-priced Volkswagen brand cars -- even though Audi sells only about a third as many vehicles. At the lower end of the market, Volkswagen benefits from the Skoda brand built in Eastern Europe, where costs are lower. But Volkswagen also has its own problem with a money-bleeding subsidiary in the form of Seat, a brand made mostly in Spain that has struggled with losses for years.
The company that appears to be most wowing analysts and peers is Hyundai and its affiliate Kia, which seems to have proven that it is still possible to make money in Europe with the right combination of geographical diversification, highly efficient manufacturing and attractive models.
Hyundai and Kia have together surpassed Toyota in European market share with models like the Kia Cee'd, made at a spotless plant in central Slovakia. Mr. Dudenhoffer calculates that Hyundai-Kia workers are the most productive in the world.
Hyundai's i30 model even received an inadvertent endorsement from Martin Winterkorn, the chief executive of Volkswagen. In a video watched nearly 1.7 million times on YouTube, Mr. Winterkorn, surrounded by an entourage, is seen closely scrutinizing an i30 at the Frankfurt auto show last year.
In the video, Mr. Winterkorn runs a finger along the Hyundai's hood and even takes out a tape measure to gauge its dimensions. Sitting in the driver's seat, Mr. Winterkorn tests the adjustable steering column and says with what sounds like grudging admiration, ''Da scheppert nichts,'' or, ''It doesn't rattle.''
Opel and Peugeot continue to make innovative models. Opel will introduce a new compact S.U.V. in Geneva called the Mokka, while Peugeot will show its 208 line, some versions of which will have highly efficient three-cylinder engines.
But the existing European manufacturers will have trouble replicating Hyundai's manufacturing efficiency when they are dependent primarily on European sales and are burdened with older factories.
Meanwhile, the profitable premium carmakers are taking over more and more garages in middle-class suburbs. BMW, long known for its rear-wheel drive cars, is developing front-wheel drive technology for smaller models.
The Mercedes unit of Daimler is also expected to expand the smaller A- and B-Class lines, and to sell the models in the United States. The company had been reluctant to do that for fear of tarnishing its luxury image there, but has evidently concluded that American drivers are also becoming more willing to pay for compact luxury.
For the traditional mass-market carmakers, there may be no choice but to become smaller and merge with rivals.
''It's not rocket science,'' Mr. Urquhart of IHS Automotive said. ''There has to be some consolidation. There has to be some cutting somewhere.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (94%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (90%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); HYUD (LSE) (90%); 005380 (KSE) (90%); BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%); UG (PAR) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%) EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



165 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts May Threaten City Programs for Children

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
It has become an annual New York drama: cutbacks in the mayor's proposed budget loom, with threats of firehouses being shut down, arts programs slashed and senior centers closed, only to be followed by restorations in the City Council. Yet the drama does not have a happy ending for everyone, and some of the cutbacks are eventually enacted.
This year, many families are concerned that cuts to child care and after-school programs could result in 47,000 children losing access to those services, advocates for the programs said on Sunday. 
Previous rounds of budget reductions have already eroded these programs, the advocates said. The number of children from low-income working families who attend city-subsidized child care has dropped by more than 9,000 since 2009, from 51,712 to 42,215. And the number of children attending after-school programs under the Department of Youth and Community Development's Out-of-School Time program has declined even more sharply, from 85,513 in 2009 to 52,000 in 2012 -- a drop of almost 40 percent.
Stephanie Gendell, the associate executive director for policy and public affairs for the Citizens' Committee for Children of New York, said it was puzzling that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was cutting funds for child care and after-school programs when he had staked so much of his legacy on education and had described those very programs as critical to children's academic success.
''It doesn't match anything he's said about the importance of education, the importance of closing the achievement gap, the importance of his Young Men's Initiative, which is focused on closing the achievement gap and making kids college-ready,'' Ms. Gendell said. ''Now he's cutting the same programs that do just that.''
A spokeswoman for Mr. Bloomberg insisted that the administration was trying to improve child care in harsh fiscal times. Indeed, the city is in the process of putting into effect a new model for early childhood education, called Early Learn NYC, which is intended to improve the quality of subsidized child care. Yet because of diminished financing, and because the new model would provide more money per child, there will be openings for 8,200 fewer children next year. Centers that have contracts with the city have had to reapply, and many worry that they will be dropped. They then would have to get by on private donations, charge more, or close.
One of the programs in this limbo is the Cypress Hills Child Care Center in Brooklyn, where Ruth Fernandez, a 42-year-old single mother of four children, sends her 4-year-old daughter, Amira, for $142 a week.
Ms. Fernandez said that in the year that she had attended the program, Amira had become much more sociable and had learned basic skills: ''She knows how to write her name and last name, she knows how to count to 20, and she knows the colors.''
Ms. Fernandez said her older daughter, now 16, did not go to a similar program and struggled in kindergarten -- something she hopes that Amira can avoid. If the Cypress Hills center has to close, Ms. Fernandez, who is a driving instructor, said she could take Amira to less formal day care in someone's home. But she worried that it would not be monitored by the city and would not benefit her daughter educationally.
''They're probably just watching TV,'' she said.
The roughly 420 after-school programs currently under the umbrella of the Out-of-School Time program also face the budget ax. Due to the net loss of $18 million -- the combination of cuts in next year's budget and money that the City Council restored this year -- the city will award new contracts to only 220 programs.
Jacqueline Bailey, 50, a single mother who lives in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, is worried about what will happen if the after-school program that her daughter attends at a public elementary school in Park Slope has to close.
She said her daughter, Heaven, who is 9, would have to take the subway home by herself -- a 45-minute ride, with a transfer.
''She would have to become a latchkey kid, and I don't think nowadays being a latchkey kid is safe,'' said Ms. Bailey, who does technology work through a temporary agency. ''I wouldn't be able to focus or concentrate on my job.''
The spokeswoman for the mayor, Samantha Levine, said in an e-mail: ''Economic realities have required painful funding decisions, but we are working within our means to provide critical services. For example, Early Learn NYC enables us to realize our vision of preparing children for school success by providing quality classroom experiences and critical family supports, while investing our limited resources in expanding or sustaining capacity in neighborhoods where the largest number of eligible children reside.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR CHILDREN (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



166 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Incubators of Innovation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''True Innovation,'' by Jon Gertner (Sunday Review, Feb. 26), is a wonderful paean to the accomplishments of Bell Labs, but before we try to bring back those glory days, we must ask ourselves: Was there more total innovation when the AT&T monopoly financed the labs, or was there more after the January 1984 divestiture?
If you are using a computer, a smartphone or the Internet to look that up, the question answers itself. 
As its seven Nobel prizes confirm, there is no doubt that Bell Labs was the home of great science. Yet its existence was predicated on an implicit tax foisted on the nation's phone bills by its monopoly.
The issue, thus, is not ''Did Bell Labs innovate?'' -- for surely it did -- but rather ''Is the business model that supported Bell Labs most conducive to innovation?''
JOSEPH BERNSTEIN Haverford, Pa., Feb. 26, 2012
To the Editor:
Jon Gertner rightly draws attention to the incredible legacy of innovation at Bell Labs. In contrast, it is surprisingly difficult to point to even one fundamental technological innovation from Microsoft, Apple, Google or Facebook.
These superstar companies are in fact living off a legacy brought to us by a mix of government or military programs and monopolies or industry behemoths: Bell Labs, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, NASA, I.B.M., Intel, Xerox, Texas Instruments and university research largely done more than 30 years ago.
Microsoft has always been a late adaptor and repackager of technology, beginning with the original MS-DOS. Apple is innovative in terms of product design -- beauty and elegance -- but is just a user of basic technology. Google's main innovation was to link advertising to search. Facebook is the accidental beneficiary of the natural tendency for people to gather at a common location.
The innovations of today's modern titans of technology have more in common with the ''innovations'' of the financial industry -- juggling, renaming and rebranding existing technologies in a way that maximizes profit. One wonders what this portends for the future of real technology in the United States.
ERIC LINDEMANN Boulder, Colo., Feb. 27, 2012
The writer is a digital signal processing engineer.
To the Editor:
Jon Gertner's portrayal of Bell Labs and its research culture was eminently familiar to those of us who have spent parts of our careers within its labs and corridors. This institution continues to be the destination of choice for a remarkable number of graduates from the world's pre-eminent research universities and a wellspring of communications technologies leadership.
Mr. Gertner succeeds in explaining how the Bell Labs values and research paradigm that held sway in the past gave rise to so much of our information age of today. I would offer that most of those elements remain in place today. And so does the flow of innovations. For example, we are making remarkable progress on a potentially revolutionary technology to move us beyond the approaching limits of the optical transport systems that make up the foundation of the Internet.
This is why I'm so amazed to see the occasional past tense reference in conjunction with Bell Labs. We continue to retool our research capacity to explore promising new technologies for the future.
JEONG KIM President, Bell Labs Murray Hill, N.J., Feb. 28, 2012
To the Editor:
As Jon Gertner points out, the financial model once used by Bell Labs -- using its telephone monopoly to finance its extraordinary scientific and engineering innovations -- is no longer available. Instead, the significant economic benefits that individual consumers have gained through deregulation and globalization in terms of lower prices and more product choices have also led to a reduction in much of the basic research, the engine for creating new industries and for driving our economic growth, that corporations once conducted.
That is why it is more important than ever that we as a nation increase our investment in basic research. By wisely investing a portion of the collective savings we have enjoyed as consumers, we can build our future prosperity. And while charities continue to have an extremely important role to play in this process, government must continue to lead, and must increase its contribution.
But that investment must truly be in basic research and not tied to the applications of any specific company, industry or social goal, no matter how laudable.
RICH WOHL Morristown, N.J., Feb. 28, 2012
To the Editor:
Jon Gertner reminds us that great institutions like Bell Labs have made extraordinary contributions to increased prosperity with inventions in computing, communication and more. Less known is that scientists at Bell Labs also helped protect the stratospheric ozone layer with technology to avoid chlorofluorocarbon solvents.
Industry and governments accomplished this by working together under the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty to protect the ozone layer, thereby avoiding millions of cases of skin cancer, cataracts and other health problems.
Scientists from Bell Labs were part of a consortium of electronic, aerospace and weapons experts who invented, patented and donated to the public domain a technology called ''no-clean soldering'' that eliminated ozone-depleting solvents, cut other hazardous manufacturing waste, increased product reliability and saved literally billions of dollars in manufacturing costs.
Bravo to Bell Labs and the success it inspires!
STEPHEN O. ANDERSEN Barnard, Vt., Feb. 27, 2012
The writer helped implement the Montreal Protocol as an official of the Environmental Protection Agency.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUKE RAMSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (77%); SMARTPHONES (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); WRITERS (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BRANDING (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NOBEL PRIZES (55%); AWARDS & PRIZES (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (84%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



167 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the I.S.M. nonmanufacturing index for February and factory orders for January (Monday); ADP employment for February, revised fourth-quarter productivity and consumer credit for January (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for February, trade deficit for January and wholesale trade inventories for November (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include H&R Block and Hovnanian Enterprises (Wednesday); and Navistar International, Smithfield Foods and Williams-Sonoma (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, the Senate Banking Committee is to conduct a hearing about job growth and capital formation, while the Senate Finance Committee is to hold a hearing about options for tax reform.
On Wednesday, Apple is expected to unveil a new iPad, and a House subcommittee is to conduct a hearing about rising gasoline prices.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, the Geneva International Motor Show opens for press previews; it will open to the public on Thursday and run through March 18. From Tuesday through Saturday, the CeBIT computer fair will take place in Hanover, Germany.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England are to issue decisions about interest rates.
On Thursday, private sector holders of Greek debt face a deadline to indicate whether they will participate in a proposed debt swap.
On Thursday, Japan will report its fourth-quarter gross domestic product.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX REFORM (54%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (57%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (57%); SFD (NYSE) (57%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); HOV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



168 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Finding Your Book Interrupted ... By the Tablet You Read It On

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN and MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Can you concentrate on Flaubert when Facebook is only a swipe away, or give your true devotion to Mr. Darcy while Twitter beckons?
People who read e-books on tablets like the iPad are realizing that while a book in print or on a black-and-white Kindle is straightforward and immersive, a tablet offers a menu of distractions that can fragment the reading experience, or stop it in its tracks.
E-mail lurks tantalizingly within reach. Looking up a tricky word or unknown fact in the book is easily accomplished through a quick Google search. And if a book starts to drag, giving up on it to stream a movie over Netflix or scroll through your Twitter feed is only a few taps away.
That adds up to a reading experience that is more like a 21st-century cacophony than a traditional solitary activity. And some of the millions of consumers who have bought tablets and sampled e-books on apps from Amazon, Apple and Barnes & Noble have come away with a conclusion: It's harder then ever to sit down and focus on reading. 
''It's like trying to cook when there are little children around,'' said David Myers, 53, a systems administrator in Atlanta, who got a Kindle Fire tablet in December. ''A child might do something silly and you've got to stop cooking and fix the problem and then return to cooking.''
''These apps beg you to review them all the time,'' he said, but he remains a fan of the device.
For book publishers, who have already seen many consumers convert from print books to e-readers, the rise of tablets poses a potential danger: that book buyers may switch to tablets and then discover that they just aren't very amenable to reading.
Will those readers gradually drift away from books, letting movies or the Internet occupy their leisure time instead?
Maja Thomas, the senior vice president for Hachette Digital, part of the Hachette Book Group, hopes just the opposite occurs.
''Someone who doesn't have a habit of reading, and buys a tablet, is going to be offered all these opportunities for reading,'' Ms. Thomas said, noting that tablets tend to come with at least one e-book app.
''We're hoping they will grow the number of people who will read.''
Sales of e-readers surged during the Christmas holiday season, according to a Pew Research Center report, which showed that the number of adults in the United States who owned tablets and e-readers nearly doubled from mid-December to early January.
But there are signs that publishers are cooling on tablets for e-reading. A recent survey by Forrester Research showed that 31 percent of publishers believed iPads and similar tablets were the ideal e-reading platform; one year ago, 46 percent thought so.
''The tablet is like a temptress,'' said James McQuivey, the Forrester Research analyst who led the survey. ''It's constantly saying, 'You could be on YouTube now.' Or it's sending constant alerts that pop up, saying you just got an e-mail. Reading itself is trying to compete.''
Indeed, the basic menu for the Kindle Fire offers links to video, apps, the Web, music, newsstand and books, effectively making books (once Amazon's stock in trade) just another menu option. So too with the multipurpose iPad, which Allison Kutz, a 21-year-old senior at Elon University in North Carolina, bought in 2010. She says her reading experience has not been the same since.
She is constantly fending off the urge to check other media, making it tough to finish books. For example, in late September 2010, she bought ''Breaking Night,'' a memoir about a homeless girl turned Harvard student. Ms. Kutz said the only time she was able to focus on it was on an airplane because there was no Internet access.
''I've tried to sit down and read it in Starbucks or the apartment, but I end up on Facebook or Googling something she said, and then the next thing you know I've been surfing for 25 minutes,'' Ms. Kutz said.
The issue of changing reader habits has been widely discussed by executives at Amazon, maker of the Kindle and Kindle Fire. Russ Grandinetti, the vice president for Kindle content, said one reason that the original Kindle, introduced in 2007 for $399, was not a multipurpose device was precisely so that people could immerse themselves without interruption.
The new Kindle Fire, by contrast, costs $199 and offers a variety of media options: video, Internet and all the potential interruptions that come with it. But Mr. Grandinetti said the device was not meant as a replacement for the first Kindle but, rather, a complement to it; different devices for people who want different experiences.
Many publishers believe that the market for both print books and black-and-white e-readers is not going away, despite the pull of tablets.
Voracious book buyers were the first people to latch onto e-readers, prizing them for their convenience, portability and features like text zooming that made it easier for older people to read. Now those e-readers are lighter, sleeker and cost less than $100 -- even a cheap tablet is more than double the cost -- so tech-shy consumers who want a device just for reading books and not much else have little incentive to upgrade.
As long as e-readers remain significantly less expensive than tablets, there may be a market for them for a long time.
But Mr. McQuivey of Forrester said that it was more likely that tablets would eventually edge out black-and-white e-readers. ''The historical precedent suggests that's the case,'' he said, citing the Palm Pilot, digital point-and-shoot cameras and portable GPS systems for the car as items that have been gradually displaced by multifunction devices. ''There's less and less reason to have these as stand-alone devices.''
For Erin Faulk, a 29-year-old legal assistant and voracious reader in Los Angeles, the era of e-readers has had one major effect: she has accumulated many more books that she categorizes as ''DNFs'' -- Did Not Finish. But she is also buying more books, she said, and she thinks that all the interruptions have, in a way, made her a more discerning reader.
''With so many distractions, my taste in books has really leveled up,'' Ms. Faulk said. ''Recently, I gravitate to books that make me forget I have a world of entertainment at my fingertips. If the book's not good enough to do that, I guess my time is better spent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Reading a book on a tablet like the Kindle Fire is ''like trying to cook when there are little children around,'' David Myers said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES0 (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); NETFLIX INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



169 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.02 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.05 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.05 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Charleston, S.C., $68.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Florida, $226.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Chesterfield County, Va., $51.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
San Francisco, $234.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Virginia College Building Authority, $160.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Maryland, $771.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alabama, $95 million of tobacco settlement revenue refinancing debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Baton Rouge, La., $55.7 million of taxable refinancing bonds. Morgan Keegan.
Boerne, Tex., Independent School District, $62 million of debt securities. Raymond James.
Broward County, Fla., $112 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Broward County, Fla., $320 million of water and sewer debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Columbia, Ohio, $212 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Garland, Tex., Independent School District, $106.7 million of unlimited tax refinancing bonds. Southwest Securities.
Hazelwood, Mo., School District, $61 million of refinancing and improvement bonds. Stifel Nicolaus.
Houston, $511.2 million of airport system revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Kansas City, Mo., $217 million of general obligation improvement and refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Long Beach, Calif., Unified School District, $80 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Los Angeles, $51 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Maryland, $150 million of general obligation bonds. Bank of America.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $75.3 million of single family housing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Nevada, $112.7 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, $502.2 million of water and sewer system revenue bonds. M. R. Beal.
New York Dormitory Authority, $53.1 million of revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
New York State Thruway Authority, $243.3 million of local highway and bridge contract bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Newport News, Va., $90.5 million of general obligation bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
North Carolina, $59 million of combined enterprise system revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority, $99.3 million of Amtrak project revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Pittsburgh School District, $82.8 million of general obligation bonds. Janney Montgomery Scott.
Port Arthur, Tex., Independent School District, $50 million of debt securities. Jefferies.
Puerto Rico, $1.5 billion of improvement refinancing general obligation bonds. Barclays Capital.
San Diego Community College District, $300 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
South Carolina, $69.1 million of sewer system revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Tempe, Ariz., Industrial Development Authority, $80 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Ziegler.
Thompson, Colo., School District, $80 million of refinancing general obligation bonds. George K. Baum.
Vermont, $100 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Williamson County, Tex., $153 million of limited tax refinancing debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (77%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



170 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: States of Depression

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The economic news is looking better lately. But after previous false starts -- remember ''green shoots''? -- it would be foolish to assume that all is well. And in any case, it's still a very slow economic recovery by historical standards.
There are several reasons for this slowness, with the most important being the overhang of household debt that is a legacy of the housing bubble. But one significant factor in our continuing economic weakness is the fact that government in America is doing exactly what both theory and history say it shouldn't: slashing spending in the face of a depressed economy. 
In fact, if it weren't for this destructive fiscal austerity, our unemployment rate would almost certainly be lower now than it was at a comparable stage of the ''Morning in America'' recovery during the Reagan era.
Notice that I said ''government in America,'' not ''the federal government.'' The federal government has been pursuing what amount to contractionary policies as the last vestiges of the Obama stimulus fade out, but the big cuts have come at the state and local level. These state and local cuts have led to a sharp fall in both government employment and government spending on goods and services, exerting a powerful drag on the economy as a whole.
One way to dramatize just how severe our de facto austerity has been is to compare government employment and spending during the Obama-era economic expansion, which began in June 2009, with their tracks during the Reagan-era expansion, which began in November 1982.
Start with government employment (which is mainly at the state and local level, with about half the jobs in education). By this stage in the Reagan recovery, government employment had risen by 3.1 percent; this time around, it's down by 2.7 percent.
Next, look at government purchases of goods and services (as distinct from transfers to individuals, like unemployment benefits). Adjusted for inflation, by this stage of the Reagan recovery, such purchases had risen by 11.6 percent; this time, they're down by 2.6 percent.
And the gap persists even when you do include transfers, some of which have stayed high precisely because unemployment is still so high. Adjusted for inflation, Reagan-era spending rose 10.2 percent in the first 10 quarters of recovery, Obama-era spending only 2.6 percent.
Why did government spending rise so much under Reagan, with his small-government rhetoric, while shrinking under the president so many Republicans insist is a secret socialist? In Reagan's case, it's partly about the arms race, but mainly about state and local governments doing what they are supposed to do: educate a growing population of children, invest in infrastructure for a growing economy.
Under President Obama, however, the dire fiscal condition of state and local governments -- the result of a sustained slump, which in turn was caused largely by that private debt explosion before 2008 -- has led to forced spending cuts. The fiscal straits of lower-level governments could and should have been alleviated by aid from Washington, which remains able to borrow at incredibly low interest rates. But this aid was never provided on a remotely adequate scale.
This policy malpractice is doing double damage to America. On one side, it's helping lose the future -- because that's what happens when you neglect education and public investment. At the same time, it's hurting us right now, by helping keep growth low and unemployment high.
We're talking big numbers here. If government employment under Mr. Obama had grown at Reagan-era rates, 1.3 million more Americans would be working as schoolteachers, firefighters, police officers, etc., than are currently employed in such jobs.
And once you take the effects of public spending on private employment into account, a rough estimate is that the unemployment rate would be 1.5 percentage points lower than it is, or below 7 percent -- significantly better than the Reagan economy at this stage.
One implication of this comparison is that conservatives who love to compare Reagan's record with Mr. Obama's should think twice. Aside from the fact that recoveries from financial crises are almost always slower than ordinary recoveries, in reality Reagan was much more Keynesian than Mr. Obama, faced with an obstructionist G.O.P., has ever managed to be.
More important, however, there is now an easy answer to anyone asking how we can accelerate our economic recovery. By all means, let's talk about visionary ideas; but we can take a big step toward full employment just by using the federal government's low borrowing costs to help state and local governments rehire the schoolteachers and police officers they laid off, while restarting the road repair and improvement projects they canceled or put on hold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



171 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Oil Drilling in the Gulf Rebounds As Prices Promote Exploration

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JOHN M. BRODER; Clifford Krauss reported from Houston and John M. Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Nearly two years after an explosion on an oil platform killed 11 workers and sent millions of gallons of oil gushing into the Gulf of Mexico, deepwater drilling has regained momentum in the gulf and is spreading around the world.
The announcement of an agreement late Friday by BP and lawyers representing individuals and businesses hurt by the disaster represented something of a turning of the page, though BP and its drilling partners continue to face legal challenges.
After a yearlong drilling moratorium, BP and other oil companies are intensifying their exploration and production in the gulf, which will soon surpass the levels attained before the accident. Drilling in the area is about to be expanded in Mexican and Cuban waters, beyond most American controls, even though any accident would almost inevitably affect the United States shoreline. Oil companies are also moving into new areas off the coast of East Africa and the eastern Mediterranean.
The reason for the resumption of such drilling, analysts say, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide. 
''We need the oil,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, associate director of the Rice University energy program. ''The industry will have to improve and regulators will have to adjust, but the public will have to deal with the risk of drilling in deep waters or get out of their cars.''
Domestic oil exploration and gasoline prices are emerging as important issues in the presidential campaign. While candidates have sparred over the reasons for rising prices, there is little disagreement over the call for more drilling, onshore and offshore.
''The price of gasoline is becoming a genuine crisis for many American families,'' said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a candidate for the Republican nomination, appearing on CNN Sunday morning. ''If it continues to go higher, it will crater the economy by August.''
President Obama, while in New Hampshire last Thursday, countered Republican charges that he was to blame for the rising pain at the pump. ''We've opened millions of new acres for oil and gas exploration, and approved more than 400 drilling permits since we put in place new safety standards in the wake of the gulf oil spill,'' Mr. Obama said.
Gas prices are averaging $3.76 a gallon, while crude oil futures settled at $106.70 a barrel on Friday.
Exploration in deepwater fields remains dangerous because of high temperatures and high pressure when drilling 6,000 feet or more under the sea floor, and accidents continue to occur, most notably last year off the coasts of China and Brazil.
But despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.
The new oil platforms will help supply growing demand in China, India and across the developing world. At the same time, turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East threatens operations in established fields that the world has relied on in recent decades.
For a time after the BP spill, the drilling moratorium ordered by the Obama administration caused a decline in gulf production, but a reversal has occurred. Forty rigs are drilling in the gulf today compared with 25 a year ago.
BP has five rigs drilling in the gulf, making it one of the most active drillers there. That is the same number BP operated before the accident, and it plans to have three more rigs drilling in the gulf by the end of the year.
The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to two million barrels a day by 2020.
Last December, the Obama administration held its first offshore auction since the BP spill, granting leases for more than 20 million acres of federal waters -- bigger than West Virginia. The leases are worth $330 million to the federal government and have the potential to produce 400 million barrels of oil.
BP successfully bid for 11 of the 191 available drilling blocks. Environmentalists challenged the auction of exploration rights, so far unsuccessfully, which precedes applications and approvals for actual drilling permits.
By the Obama administration's accounting, 61 drilling permits for wells in more than 500 feet of water were granted in the 12 months ending Feb. 27, only six fewer than were permitted in the same period in 2009 and 2010 before the BP explosion.
''The political discourse about energy has really changed over the last two years,'' said Daniel Yergin, the oil historian and author of ''The Quest,'' a book about energy security. Despite the BP accident, he added, ''there's a new focus on how U.S. oil production should increase both onshore and offshore.''
If there has been any disagreement, it has been over how fast to expand the drilling.
Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the Obama administration had put in place significantly tougher offshore drilling requirements, but they have been resisted by Republicans in the House, who have passed legislation to hasten review of drilling plans and open new areas to development.
''The Republicans and the oil industry are maintaining the speed-over-safety mentality that led to the BP disaster in the first place,'' said Mr. Markey, who has been critical of the Obama administration's response to the spill and to what he called a dangerous overuse of chemical dispersants in the gulf. ''We now understand the lessons, but Republicans have blocked all new safety laws,'' he said. ''Not one has been put on the books.''
Yet Republicans argue, loudly, that Mr. Obama is not doing nearly enough to expand drilling. The Republican majority in the House has passed legislation to speed lease sales on public lands while pressing to open the Atlantic and Pacific coasts -- which have been largely politically untouchable since the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969 -- to extensive oil and gas development.
''This is a president who does not understand energy,'' said Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, while campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination last week in Fargo, N.D. ''He is the problem. He is not the solution.''
Mr. Romney, who said last week that he had named a billionaire oil industry executive, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, to lead his team of energy advisers, has said he would relax regulations and speed the permitting process.
The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields, though none have compared to the BP spill. A well operated by ConocoPhillips and a Chinese state company leaked more than 3,200 barrels of oil and fluid into China's Bohai Bay last June, producing a 324-square mile slick.
A comparable spill occurred last November from an appraisal well in Brazil's Campos basin operated by Chevron. Federal investigators threatened fines and even prison terms for Chevron officials, but a federal judge declined to grant an injunction suspending Chevron's Brazilian operations and those of the oil rig contractor, Transocean, the company that owned and operated the Deepwater Horizon for BP.
Nevertheless, the Obama administration reached an agreement with the Mexican government to open a new tract to offshore drilling, some of it in water more than 6,000 feet deep, despite persistent questions about the strength of Mexican oil industry regulation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Edward J. Markey said the oil industry favored speed over safety. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 A $7.8 billion agreement was proposed last week to settle plaintiffs' claims in the BP oil explosion in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES COAST GUARD) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); FUTURES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); EDWARD J MARKEY (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (90%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



172 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Before Pivotal Tuesday Votes, Big Names Rally to Romney

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Snellville, Ga., Robbie Brown from Memphis and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Oklahoma City.

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- A reluctant Republican Party is increasingly showing signs of rallying around Mitt Romney in the presidential race, with leading members of Congress and influential conservatives signaling that a coast-to-coast burst of voting on Super Tuesday should mark a moment to start concentrating on defeating President Obama.
Two leading fiscal conservatives declared their loyalties for the first time on Sunday, with one, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, saying, ''Mitt Romney is the man for this year.'' The other, Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, described Mr. Romney as ''best equipped to solve the urgent problems before us.''
John Ashcroft, the former Missouri governor and senator who served as attorney general under President George W. Bush, is poised to join Mr. Romney's team on Monday. 
The endorsements come as the Romney campaign is pressing elected officials and activists in the 10 states that are voting Tuesday and those that do so in the following weeks to help nudge the contest toward a conclusion. A methodical effort is under way among governors, donors and top Republicans to make the case that a long nominating fight could weaken the party's chances to win the White House, maintain control of the House and gain a majority in the Senate.
Campaign advisers said they were lining up supporters from across the Republican ranks to add their voices to an effort to begin trying to wind down the race.
''Over the next several days, you are likely to see more Republicans come forward,'' Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, a Romney supporter, said in an interview Sunday. ''Timing-wise, it's gotten to the point that people are looking to coalesce around one candidate and take the fight to the Democrats.''
The contests on Super Tuesday, which is the biggest day of voting so far in the primary season, will award more than 400 delegates and indicate to establishment Republicans whether the race is nearing a finale or will be mired in acrimony for months.
It is a significant moment for Mr. Romney, but also a critical one for Rick Santorum, who is scrapping for delegates but also trying to win the popular vote in Ohio to revive doubts about Mr. Romney's appeal among conservative and working-class voters. Newt Gingrich is also fighting to stay in the race, staking the future of his candidacy on a victory in Georgia on Tuesday.
Here in Ohio, where voters have developed a well-earned reputation as a bellwether that captures national political sentiments, the primary will help determine the length of the presidential race and the direction of the Republican Party. The state could also provide one of the best opportunities for Mr. Santorum to slow Mr. Romney's march to the nomination.
The two men are locked in a tight race here, according to an NBC News/Marist poll released on Sunday, which found Mr. Santorum with a two-point edge over Mr. Romney that was within the survey's margin of sampling error. Mr. Santorum, who is relying on grass-roots activists in the state, dismissed the endorsements collected by his rival.
''We're running the insurgent campaign,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''He's running the insider campaign.''
Social conservative activists around Ohio were busy posting Santorum lawn signs, making phone calls and promoting his candidacy at church services across the state in a last volley of activity on Sunday, pleading for neighbors not to take orders from party leaders who are urging rank-and-file voters to fall in behind Mr. Romney.
''When the party itself says, 'We all need to come together to support a particular candidate,' I think that's wrong,'' said John McAvoy, an organizer for a group called the Children of Liberty, speaking as he posted Santorum yard signs in the northwest Ohio town of Luckey.
The Romney campaign is calibrating its moves gingerly, trying not to alienate Republican voters who will be needed in the fall if Mr. Romney is the party's nominee. The argument that he is the most electable against Mr. Obama resonates with some Republican primary voters, but not all.
''I know it's hard for them, but it's settling in with a lot of people that our only chance of beating President Obama is with Romney,'' said George V. Voinovich, the former senator from Ohio, who has been recording radio ads for Mr. Romney.
The Republican candidates fanned out across several Southern states on Sunday. As Mr. Romney visited Georgia, he told voters about his new endorsements. His words were laced with implicit criticisms of his rivals.
''The economy is what I do, it's what I know, it's what I've done,'' Mr. Romney told a crowd at a pancake breakfast in Snellville, Ga. ''I haven't just read about it, I haven't just debated about it, I haven't just talked about it on subcommittees. I've actually done it.''
The fourth candidate still in the race, Representative Ron Paul of Texas, made a weekend trip to Alaska, which is holding its caucuses Tuesday. In a television interview, Mr. Paul conceded that he was unlikely to win the nomination, saying: ''Do I believe the chances are slim? Yes, I do.''
As the Romney campaign re-emphasized its commitment to the process of picking up delegates state by state, week by week, the candidate's aides were facing the unforgiving realities of symbolism in presidential politics, especially in terms of feeding ''momentum'' -- or taking it away.
Even with the new signs of support for Mr. Romney, there are significant hurdles to capturing the 1,144 delegates needed to win the nomination. A loss to Mr. Santorum in Ohio would blunt Mr. Romney's latest attempt to portray himself as the inexorable nominee.
Likewise, a failure to compete strongly in Tennessee or Georgia would likely reinforce questions about Mr. Romney's strength in the South. Neither Mr. Santorum nor Mr. Gingrich qualified for the ballot in Virginia, negating its potential as a Southern proving ground.
But winning Ohio and one of those Southern states would give Mr. Romney a major lift as he seeks to finally solidify his front-runner status. His advisers sought to play down the importance of outright victories in the South, or, for that matter, any single state.
''I don't know if we can win in Georgia or Tennessee,'' Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, told reporters Sunday. ''But I know we can take delegates out of there and this is a delegate contest now.''
It was no coincidence that Mr. Fehrnstrom was speaking aboard a campaign plane bound for Atlanta from Cincinnati and destined for Knoxville, Tenn. Though polls show Mr. Gingrich well ahead in Georgia, a state that he represented for two decades in Congress, Mr. Romney's team was seeking to take a large portion of the state's 76 delegates.
For his part, Mr. Santorum conceded that it was difficult to challenge Mr. Romney with Mr. Gingrich still in the race drawing some conservative voters. But on Sunday as he visited Corky's, a venerable barbecue house in Memphis, he predicted the Republican contest would ultimately become a ''two-man race.''
''We're doing as well as anybody,'' Mr. Santorum said before setting off for rallies in Oklahoma. ''In all of the races, we're either first or second, and that's going to make a good Super Tuesday for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney greeting voters on Sunday after serving pancakes at a breakfast in Snellville, Ga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAWYERS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TOM COBURN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



173 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Russian Turnout Includes Thousands of Eager Election Observers

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY; Michael Schwirtz, Olga Slobodchikova and Glenn Kates contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- A small army of first-time election observers fanned out across Russian polling places, and hundreds of thousands of citizens watched ballot boxes via a vast network of Web cameras on Sunday, in what amounted to a huge experiment in public scrutiny of the voting process.
Evidence of brazen violations during parliamentary elections in December helped catalyze a series of unusual antigovernment protests, and activists on Sunday circulated evidence -- much of it via video clips -- that they said established a comparable level of foul play in the presidential election.
But this time the Kremlin seemed better prepared to counter the accusations, which are seen as potentially undermining Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin's legitimacy as he embarks on a fresh six-year term as president. As the election approached, the authorities broadcast television exposes about the observers, accusing them of fabricating reports of fraud in a foreign-backed effort to topple Mr. Putin's government. 
Some monitoring efforts were simply shut down. A parallel count organized by the opposition lawmaker Ilya V. Ponomaryov on Sunday had to be halted when the police evacuated the cafe where it was being held, saying there had been a bomb threat. The cafe was a last-minute location, since the Federal Guard Service had shut down the project's original location on Saturday, Mr. Ponomaryov said.
''As soon as we started counting votes, the people in epaulettes arrived,'' he told the radio station Kommersant FM on Sunday evening. ''The work -- the counting system itself -- has been spoiled. Of course we will try to start over a little later, but this is a race against time.''
Golos, Russia's most prominent election monitoring group, documented 45 cases of ''carousel voting,'' in which groups of voters using absentee ballots are shuttled between polling places to vote repeatedly.
Apparent carousel voting was the subject of viral videos on Sunday, though much of the footage was ambiguous. Konstantin Rykov, a pro-Kremlin publisher, said the practice could not have swung the election, because there are only two million absentee ballots. ''The liberals have taken the 'carousel' theme as their main propaganda point for nothing,'' he said. ''this technology yields no result.''
Aleksandr V. Kynev, a Golos official, said the group had not documented the same widespread ballot-stuffing it had found in December, and speculated that was because ''falsification technology has tilted in the direction of more complex and difficult to uncover.''
Election monitoring had exploded from a scholarly endeavor into grass-roots political activism in recent months.
Glenn Cowan, who as a consultant to the United States Agency for International Development has trained election monitors overseas since 1985, said somewhere between 12,000 and 20,000 monitors had been deployed by various organizations. He warned that the cacophony of reports released Sunday would offer little overall sense of the election.
''They will show anecdotes, and they will prove examples, but the examples don't necessarily prove anything about the whole,'' Mr. Cowan said.
Mr. Putin and other officials have claimed in recent days that accusations of fraud had been prepared in advance as part of a plot to weaken his government, and point to the fact that Golos is financed mostly by the American government.
''This is simply one of the instruments of battle,'' Mr. Putin said last week. ''They are getting ready to use certain mechanisms to confirm that the elections are falsified. They are going to stuff the ballot boxes, they are going to control it, and then they will present it to the public. We already see it, we already know it.''
In fact, vigorous election monitoring has led to the downfall of some leaders, including Augusto Pinochet in Chile and Ferdinand Marcos in the Philippines and also Russian allies like Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and Viktor F. Yanukovich of Ukraine. But Mr. Cowan said the effort in Russia could not have an immediate effect, because Mr. Putin -- unlike those mentioned --was not facing a strong opposition force. He said the most surprising aspect of Sunday's deployment was that observers had mobilized without any expectation that Mr. Putin would leave office in the near future.
''The fact that anybody is coming out when there is no expectation of immediate gratification is really unusual,'' said Mr. Cowan, who is in Moscow this week as an analyst for the American government. Its major effect, he said, would be to energize new activists who will look back on this election as a pivotal moment.
''Election observing is as boring as toast,'' Mr. Cowan said. ''It's the excitement of being in the crowd, of watching on television something you participated in. It's like people who watched Babe Ruth hit his 60th home run. Years from now, people will tell the tale of how they were there, even if they weren't.''
Sunday's effort drew in volunteers who, until a few months ago, would have described themselves as staunchly apolitical. Ksenia Adamovitch, 31, an aspiring filmmaker, did not even vote in the last presidential election. But on Sunday, she found herself waking before dawn and playing a rousing military march on her laptop to get herself in the mood.
Her preparation for the day had consisted of a two-hour seminar, and she was nervous enough about the protests planned for this week to ask a friend to feed her cat if she were arrested. As she walked to her polling place -- a psychiatric hospital -- she wondered aloud whether her activism would jeopardize her work at a state-funded film festival.
''It's not that I want to go out and topple anything,'' she said. ''But the only way to understand at least approximately what is happening is to go and participate.''
Yulia Yelupova, a journalism student, reported no violations at polling station 2057 during the course of the day. But when she went to vote herself, she filmed the arrival of a group of voters in a van with license plates from another part of the country. When the group's leader tried to seize her camera, security guards from the polling place detained the man, though he was released later. She said she would gladly serve as an observer in future elections.
''I am 21, and I went there not because it was fashionable,'' she said. ''We can use quotes from laws in our conversations. I think a person who cares about fashion would never bother learning laws. You really can just come there, sit still for several hours, put your signature in a violation report and proclaim yourself a revolutionary.''
In an effort to shore up public confidence in the election, the Kremlin ordered a $478 million network of Web cameras installed in polling places, and the video generated several accusations. In one, shot from a polling place in Dagestan, in the Caucasus, two people are seen placing ballot after ballot in two separate voting machines.
In another, recorded in Chechnya, a woman seems to vote twice. But activists argued that many of the Web cameras were either turned off or did not provide clear images.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Early Sunday morning, Ksenia Adamovitch, 31, got ready to serve as an observer at a polling place near her home. She said it was necessary to participate in order to understand the process. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTION MONITORING (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



174 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Continuing Buildup, China Increases Military Spending More Than 11 Percent

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China announced a double-digit increase in military spending on Sunday, a rise that comes amid an intensifying strategic rivalry between the United States and China in Asia and concerns in Washington about the secrecy surrounding the Chinese defense budget.
The increase, reported to be 11.2 percent, is in step with the increased pace of military spending by China over the past decade, but the official statement did not give details of what weapons systems China is developing or offer a description of military strategy beyond protection of the country's sovereignty. China analysts said the true figure was probably significantly higher and was underreported because much of the military's decision-making is kept opaque. 
Washington has pressed China to be more forthcoming about its military intentions, an openness that the Americans say is necessary to relieve growing unease in a region where the United States maintains important alliances and treaty obligations.
President Obama declared in November that American military interests in the Asia-Pacific region would be immune from cuts to the Pentagon budget, a commitment that was interpreted in Beijing as a response to China's growing power.
For its part, China, which is heavily dependent on imported energy, has shown that it wants greater control of the sea lanes off its coast and wants to protect the heavily populated and increasingly wealthy cities on its east coast.
This strategy, known in Washington as the ''antiaccess, area denial'' policy, has in turn prompted calls from the Pentagon for new weapons systems that can overcome China's eventual capabilities in its coastal waters.
The spokesman of the National People's Congress, Li Zhaoxing, said at a news conference on Sunday, a day before its annual conclave, that the military spending increase was in line with China's economic development. He added that the increase was relatively low, as a percentage of gross domestic product, compared with other countries, specifically the United States and Britain.
The total defense budget for 2012 would be increased to $106 billion from $95.6 billion last year, he said. The Obama administration has proposed $525.4 billion in defense spending for 2013, a cut of about $5 billion from 2012.
Although Mr. Li said the budget covered research and development and new weapons systems as well as personnel costs, Western and Chinese analysts said the announcement represented an undercounting of the real expenditure.
The Chinese Navy, Air Force and the Second Artillery Corps, which runs the strategic nuclear forces, benefit most from the increased defense spending, experts in both countries say.
Among the navy's acquisitions are a new class of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines and more sophisticated radar systems that allow for improved over-the-horizon targeting, according to the Pentagon's 2011 report to Congress on the Chinese military.
Vital elements of the Chinese military buildup, including cyberwarfare, space capabilities and foreign procurements, were not included in the announced budget, the analysts said.
Because of the opaqueness of the Chinese military system and secrecy about the workings of its uppermost body, the Central Military Commission, the real expenditures were not known, they said.
Last year, the Pentagon estimated that China would spend $160 billion instead of the announced $95.6 billion.
But given the dearth of information, the Pentagon's estimates of Chinese military spending were probably not reliable, said Dennis Blasko, a former United States Army attache at the American Embassy in Beijing.
''Whatever the true numbers may be, the Chinese military has a much larger pot of cash to spend on fewer troops than it did 15 years ago,'' said Mr. Blasko, the author of ''The Chinese Army Today: Tradition and Transformation for the 21st Century.'' Over all, he said, China's defense spending continued to be in line with its economic growth rates.
During a visit to Washington last month by Vice President Xi Jinping, who is expected to be the next leader of China, the Obama administration specifically asked for greater transparency in the Chinese military budget and for deeper communications between the two militaries, administration officials said.
Mr. Xi, who is one of two civilian members of the Central Military Commission, appeared to recognize the significance of Washington's concern.
In remarks at the Pentagon with Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta at his side, Mr. Xi said he looked forward to an exchange on the ''overall relationship, but especially our mil-to-mil relationship,'' shorthand for military to military.
In an effort to coax the Chinese military to be more open, Washington started formal talks known as a strategic security dialogue last year. They were attended by senior civilian and military officials from Beijing and Washington, Obama administration officials said.
The results were meager, but the administration was pushing for another round of the talks to take place in several months, the officials said.
Some Chinese analysts back the idea of more clarity and greater contact between the two defense establishments.
''China needs more transparency in explaining to others,'' said Chu Shulong, a professor of international relations at the School of Public Policy and Management at Tsinghua University. ''China is aiming to deny the capability of possible American intervention in the western Pacific. That has been clear since 1996.''
He described the Chinese military as fearful of overhauls, but he said a public explanation of military strategy was necessary because ''if you are not clear to others, they have suspicions.''
In Washington, anxieties are being driven in part by the fact that, unlike in the cold war period, when grainy satellite images were the main source of information, Chinese Web sites are filled with striking images of new weaponry, said Jonathan D. Pollack, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
The new hardware is being displayed at a time when there is a growing gap between China's rising military expenditures and slowing spending by other countries in the region, many of them American allies.
That gap has reinforced the realization that the United States may not remain the singularly dominant power in the Asia-Pacific region if Chinese military spending keeps escalating.
''The deeper American concern is a mirror image of what Albright said to Powell in the mid-'90s: What's the point of all this equipment if you're not going to use it?'' Mr. Pollack said, referring to an argument over American involvement in Bosnia between Madeleine K. Albright, then the United States ambassador to the United Nations, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, then the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
At the news conference on Sunday, Mr. Li said that China had sent 2,044 peacekeepers to 12 trouble spots around the world last year, reflecting a bigger role by China in quelling conflicts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Li Zhaoxing, spokesman for the National People's Congress, said the jump in spending was in line with economic growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT THIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); RADAR SYSTEMS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); INFORMATION WARFARE (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



175 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Drill Baby Drill, Redux

 BODY:
It's campaign season and the pandering about gas prices is in full swing. Hardly a day goes by that a Republican politician does not throw facts to the wind and claim that rising costs at the pump are the result of President Obama's decisions to block the Keystone XL pipeline and impose sensible environmental regulations and modest restrictions on offshore drilling. 
Next, of course, comes the familiar incantation of ''drill, baby, drill.'' Mr. Obama has rightly derided this as a ''bumper sticker,'' not a strategy. Last week, he agreed that high gas prices were a real burden, but said the only sensible response was a balanced mix of production, conservation and innovation in alternative fuels.
There are lots of reasons for the rise in gas prices, but the lack of American production is not one of them. Domestic crude oil production is actually up from 5.4 million barrels a day in 2004 to 5.59 million now; imports have dropped by more than 10 percent in the same period. Despite a temporary slowdown in exploration in the Gulf of Mexico after the BP oil disaster, the number of rigs in American oil fields has quadrupled over three years. There have been new discoveries and the administration has promised to open up more offshore reserves. To say that Mr. Obama has denied industry access is nonsense.
Equally nonsensical is the Republican claim that Mr. Obama's proposed repeal of $4 billion in annual tax breaks for the oil and gas industry -- whose five biggest players posted $137 billion in profits last year -- would drive prices upward. As is Newt Gingrich's claim that a proposal now taking shape in the Environmental Protection Agency, and fiercely opposed by refiners, to lower the sulfur content in gasoline would add 25 cents to the cost of a gallon. Agency experts say it would add about a penny.
The truth is that oil prices are set on world markets by forces largely beyond America's control. Chief among these is soaring demand in countries like China. Unrest in oil-producing countries is another factor. The Times noted fears in some quarters that gas could jump to $5 a gallon if the standoff with Iran disrupted world supplies.
Therein lies the biggest weakness in the Republican litany. A country that consumes more than 20 percent of the world's oil supply but owns 2 percent of its reserves cannot drill its way out of high prices or dependence on exports from unstable countries. The only plausible strategy is to keep production up while cutting consumption and embarking on a serious program of alternative fuels.
American innovation is a big part of the answer. Two byproducts of the automobile bailout were the carmakers' acceptance of sharply improved fuel economy and a new commitment to building cars that can meet those standards. The new rules are expected to cut consumption by 2.2 million barrels a day -- more than America now produces in the gulf. These and other measures are not nearly as catchy as ''drill, baby, drill.'' But they have a far better shot, long term, of lessening this country's dependence on oil imports and keeping gas prices under control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); OIL SPILLS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



176 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: 'Loose' War Talk Only Helps Iran, President Says

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Washington, and Ashley Parker from Snellville, Ga.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As Republicans on the campaign trail ramped up their support for Israel in a possible military strike on Iran, President Obama used a speech before a pro-Israel lobbying group on Sunday to warn against the ''loose talk of war'' that could serve to speed Iran toward a nuclear weapon.
In a forceful address to the group, the influential American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Mr. Obama declared that he would not tolerate a nuclear-armed Iran and would act -- with military force, if necessary -- to prevent that from happening.
But he made it clear that he did not believe that a strike on Iran would serve the interests of either the United States or Israel. And he chided his Republican critics for, as he described it, putting politics ahead of American national security interests. 
''Already, there is too much loose talk of war,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Over the last few weeks such talk has only benefited the Iranian government by driving up the price of oil, which they depend on to fund their nuclear program.
''For the sake of Israel's security, America's security and the peace and security of the world, now is not the time for bluster.''
And as he often does, Mr. Obama quoted President Theodore Roosevelt: ''Speak softly. Carry a big stick.''
For Mr. Obama, the speech, before some of Israel's loudest and staunchest supporters in the United States, was a political high-wire act, an effort to demonstrate his commitment to Israel's security without signaling American support for a pre-emptive strike against Iran. And it was an effort to confront the Republican presidential candidates who have turned the Iranian nuclear issue into the top item in their litmus test for demonstrating support for Israel.
Even as Mr. Obama was giving his keynote address to the Aipac conference, Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, was questioning the president's Iran strategy on the Sunday talk shows. ''We're being played for fools,'' Mr. Gingrich said on ''State of the Union'' on CNN. ''Israel is such a small country; it is so compact that two or three nuclear weapons would be equivalent to a second Holocaust.''
After Mr. Obama's speech, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, said at a campaign stop near Atlanta, ''If Barack Obama gets re-elected, Iran will have a nuclear weapon, and the world will change if that's the case.'' Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Romney and Rick Santorum are also scheduled to address Aipac this week.
Mr. Obama, who has often lamented the United States' invasion of Iraq in 2003, made reference to an American intelligence assessment that found no evidence that Iran has decided to pursue a nuclear weapon. Recent assessments by American spy agencies have also reaffirmed intelligence findings in 2007 and 2010 that concluded that Iran had abandoned its nuclear weapons program.
''The United States and Israel both assess that Iran does not yet have a nuclear weapon,'' Mr. Obama said. He also promised vigilance to make sure that Iran's civilian nuclear agenda did not turn into a weapons program.
A European official closely involved in the diplomatic efforts on Iran said on Sunday that ''while the intentions of the Iranian regime remain opaque, we don't believe they have made the decision to weaponize.''
''There are a lot of moving parts,'' the official said, speaking on grounds of anonymity. ''Meanwhile, the war drumbeat is beating louder in Washington.''
Mr. Obama made it clear that he considers diplomacy, and the policy of sanctions set in motion by the United States and Europe, as the best hopes for getting Iran to not pursue a nuclear weapon.
It was at times a defensive speech, delivered by a president who was initially criticized for pushing Israel too hard to make concessions for peace with the Palestinians. Over three years, Mr. Obama's relationship with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has deteriorated as Mr. Netanyahu balked at American demands. Mr. Obama has retreated, largely putting aside the Palestinian issue for the rest of this term.
But at the same time, a far more vigorous sanctions policy against Iran's nuclear program has gone into effect on Mr. Obama's watch, with Europe agreeing to impose an oil embargo on Iran, a step that was unthinkable as recently as four years ago.
Mr. Obama has nonetheless been dogged by Republican criticism that he has not backed Israel strongly enough, with Iran's nuclear ambitions now front and center in that debate.
Mr. Obama is to meet with Mr. Netanyahu on Monday at the White House, where the prime minister is expected to continue to pressure the United States to take a harder line on Iran. Specifically, Mr. Netanyahu wants Mr. Obama to be more explicit about the circumstances under which the United States would carry out a strike.
Israeli officials are demanding that Iran agree to halt its uranium enrichment, and that the suspension be verified by United Nations inspectors, before the West resumes negotiations with Tehran on its nuclear program. The White House has rejected that demand, arguing that Iran would never agree to a blanket ban upfront.
Last month, Iran abandoned preconditions for resuming international negotiations over its nuclear programs that the West had considered unacceptable. The United States and other countries involved in the negotiations -- Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia -- are now considering their response to an Iranian letter that for the first time in more than a year appeared to open the door for resuming talks.
Diplomats involved in the negotiations, wary that the Iranians might be trying to stall, are now discussing how to present a concrete set of demands that Iran must first meet. American officials have said that the Iranians' letter shows that the steadily tightening diplomatic and economic sanctions might force Tehran to change course.
In many ways, Mr. Obama's speech was meant to demonstrate that he would use military options as a last resort.
''I do not have a policy of containment,'' Mr. Obama said, to applause from the huge crowd at the Washington convention center. ''I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. And as I've made clear time and again during the course of my presidency, I will not hesitate to use force when it is necessary to defend the United States and its interests.''
At the same time, he seemed to indicate that he would not be pushed into military action.
''As president and commander in chief, I have a deeply held preference for peace over war,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I have sent men and women into harm's way. I have seen the consequences of those decisions in the eyes of those I meet who have come back gravely wounded, and the absence of those who don't make it home.'' He called the image of wounded American soldiers ''the most searing of my presidency.''
''For this reason,'' he said, ''as part of my solemn obligation to the American people, I only use force when the time and circumstances demand it. And I know that Israeli leaders also know all too well the costs and consequences of war, even as they recognize their obligation to defend their country.''
Aipac leaders praised Mr. Obama for saying that he would not tolerate a nuclear Iran, and for explicitly ruling out a strategy of containment similar to the one used against the Soviet Union.
''The president said some welcome things today on Iran,'' said Josh Block, a former Aipac spokesman, ''including making clear that he has a policy of prevention, not containment, explicitly pointing to a military option, delivering an extended explanation of why it is in America's interest to stop Iran, and in particular making explicitly clear that Israel has a sovereign right to defend themselves as they see fit.''
There was a sharply different reaction at J Street, a prominent pro-Israel lobbying group that is less hawkish. Daniel Levy, a former Israeli peace negotiator, said Mr. Obama ''gave the domestic and mainstream Israeli audiences what they wanted without giving Bibi what he wanted,'' referring to Mr. Netanyahu's nickname. ''He refused to lie down for Bibi.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke at the conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in Washington on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



177 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: New Marriages or No Marriages?

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Why more children are being born to unmarried mothers is a complex question involving education, income and the changing roles of men and women, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Motherhood without marriage is on the increase in the United States, particularly among women under 30 who have not completed college. One big question is why.
Some conservatives, like Rick Santorum, blame feminism for encouraging women to work outside the home. Others, like Charles Murray, emphasize the corrupting effect of public assistance. Many liberals, like Thomas Edsall, assert that this story leaves out the effects of deindustrialization and growing economic dislocation, which have reduced the number of marriageable men.
What I see is a culturally contested adjustment to the changing role of women, an adjustment impeded by growing income inequality but eased by education.
As the empirical trajectory unfolds, it becomes easier to assess these competing explanations. Once literally described as a "pathology" of the black community, nonmarital births reached about 29 percent of the total for whites in 2009.

Public assistance can't take the blame. The trend extends well beyond women eligible for Temporary Assistance to Needy Families or theEarned Income Tax Credit. Strict new work requirements, paternity tests and child support enforcement policies introduced in 1996 have not significantly increased marriage among low-income families. Nor did the federally financed Healthy Marriage Initiative have a discernible effect.
The loss of manufacturing jobs and declining real wages for non-college-educated men help explain why many feel they can't support a family. Women's higher employment levels and increased earnings relative to men help explain why many feel they can afford to go it alone.
Women are understandably reluctant to marry men living in poverty, and increased earnings inequality among men may induce women to wait longer and search harder for Mr. Right.
But these factors don't fully explain the current trend. Given the advantages of pooling income with an employed wife, why aren't men better at wooing potential long-term partners? And why should women want to support children on their own without much help - in the form of either money or direct assistance - from a father?
The economic benefits of a traditional marriage with a male breadwinner and a female homemaker have probably declined in recent years. Reliance on a single earner is risky, and complete specialization in family care leaves women economically vulnerable, especially in a world with a high divorce rate.
On the other hand, the benefits of more flexible sharing of responsibilities for earning income and providing family care have almost certainly increased as a result of high unemployment and the high cost of purchased child care. If one spouse loses a job, the other's earnings provide a buffer. When employment schedules allow, shared parenting can be rewarding and cost-effective.
These benefits probably explain why the college-educated are now more likely to marry and stay married than others are, a trend well documented in the sociologist Andrew Cherlin's book "The Marriage-Go-Round." Married fathers devote more time to child care and housework than they once did, and are often rewarded by the higher family income that their wives help deliver.
Not so long ago, most men were averse to marrying women who earned more than they did, and most women hoped to "marry up." These attitudes are changing. Higher education now has a positive effect on women's probability of marriage, and the percentage of employed wives earning more than their husbands increased to about 35 percent in 2008 from about 24 percent in 1987.
But adjustment to less specialized gender roles can be difficult, especially for men and women bruised by economic stress. Women are rewarded for adopting traditionally male roles that offer immediate rewards (like a paycheck). But men are often stigmatized for fulfilling traditional female responsibilities, historically considered a gendered obligation rather than a productive contribution.
As the sociologist Paula England explains, this asymmetry helps explain the uneven pace of the "gender revolution."
Higher education is no panacea, but it gives men and women a strong incentive to postpone both marriage and child-rearing until a later age, a factor that contributes to greater relationship stability. Higher education also helps people develop the skills they need to adapt to rapid social and economic change.
Maybe that's why social conservatives like Rick Santorum insist that it is overrated.

        
Feminism's Uneven Success
        
The Depreciation of Care at Home
        
The Recession in Pink and Blue
        
Rich Mom, Poor Mom
        
Feminists at Fault?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); MEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (79%); FAMILY LAW (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (75%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PARENTING (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); RACE & RACISM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (67%); LEGAL PATERNITY (67%); INCOME TAX (67%) aid to needy families; birth rates; Child Care; Daily Economist; family economics; family leave; feminism; marriage; Nancy Folbre; Rick Santorum; wage discrimination; wage gap; Economic Conditions and Trends; Marriages; Social Conditions and Trends; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



178 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Palace Coup | Jaipur's Literary Festival

BYLINE: RYMN MASSAND


HIGHLIGHT: A New York-based book designer on her first visit to India's premier literary festival, held in a 200-year-old palace in Jaipur. 

 BODY:
Jaipur, India, may be called "The Pink City," but in truth it's gray and dusty, a wonderful place of crumbling beauty. Now in its fifth year, the DSC Jaipur Literature Festival, which was held inside a 200-year-old palace at the end of January, is breathing new life into this very old town. The event draws an increasingly curious cross-section of India's vibrant literary scene: authors, publishers, readers, schoolchildren, old poets, young journalists, socialites, minor royalty, major art collectors, literary aspirants, Nosy Parkers - in short anyone who has ever felt the power of a good book.
Faith Singh, the woman behind the amazing Anokhi craft and textile shops scattered across India, was the original driving force behind the festival, along with Thakur Ram Pratap Singh, who owns the delightful Diggi Palace, where the event is held. He recently recalled the festival's earliest days, when 15 authors showed up in total and there were as few as 20 people at each reading. At that time, organizers had to corral family and friends to fill seats. That intimate gathering of book lovers has blossomed into a five-day event, which this year attracted more than 120,000 attendees and 260 speakers, including Micheal Ondaatje, Javed Akhtar, Katherine Boo, Richard Dawkins and Joseph Lelyveld.
Inside the palace, which is painted a soft blue, conversations about books and writing take place in every corner. As a book designer, book lover and occasional writer, this was my first outing to the festival, and so thoroughly charmed was I that my return next year is guaranteed. I ran into Tom Stoppard, who graciously paused for a 20-minute conversation about, among other things, the beauty of the wintry dusk in Jaipur. I attended late-night publishing parties held in exquisite settings, ranging from the opulent Rambagh Palace, with its princely domes and vintage cars, to the oh-so-charming Raj Palace (housed within the walls of the old city) to the bejeweled private dining rooms at the peak of the ancient Amber Fort. And I was crushed against the walls of the Mughal Tent, where 1,200 fellow Indian bibliophiles listened to David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, give a talk on the "Disappointment of Obama."
In a rapidly booming economy like India's, where some days everything seems to be about money, or the best path to accumulating it, an event dedicated to literature and writing feels like a rare bird, the likes of which one will never see again. And yet the event seems to get bigger each year. Chiki Sarkar, the newly appointed publisher of Penguin Books India, said the Indian reading public is becoming more sophisticated with each passing festival. "The audience this year was sharper, with smarter questions," she said, also noting that the festival awarded a $50,000 prize to a previously little-known Sri Lankan writer, Shehan Karunatilaka, whose first novel, "Chinaman: The Legend of Pradeep Mathew," came out last year to raves.

        
Jaipur Jaunt
        
A Good Yarn
        
The Italo Calvino Soundtrack
        
Sights for Sore Eyes
        
Photographers Without Borders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); POETRY (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); CHILDREN (56%); ART COLLECTING (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Books; India; Jaipur; Culture; Travel

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



179 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 3704 words

HEADLINE: London Calling

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: This weekend's magazine was devoted to London. While it's a "photography issue," it does include writers and text, of course. But - also of course - there's no way we could have included enough words or pictures to justly capture the city's literary lion-icity. Here's an arbitrary, unrepresentative sampling from some of the writers who go on and on about the place. 

 BODY:
Last fall, National Geographic Traveler ranked London No. 3 on its list of the world's "Top 10 Literary Cities." It's a mystery it didn't finish first: what other burg belongs in the running for the all-time City of Writers title? (Nos. 1 and 2 were also in the British Isles, for what that's worth.) As a Stanford University site called Authorial London puts it, "A comprehensive Web site for literary London would occupy an entire server." See for yourself - check out the pantheon hosted there. And note that it's pretty much just an old-timer's wing.
This weekend's magazine is devoted to London. While it's a photography issue, it does include writers and text, of course. But - also of course - there's no way we could have included enough words or pictures to justly capture the city's literary lion-icity. So unto the breech I'll cry havoc and let slip the dogs Type, Copy and Paste!
What follows is a kind of chapbook, an arbitrary, unrepresentative sampling. As hodgepodge, it goes long, and it skews toward the foggy, the dark, the cranky. But if it gets to be too much London, just stop reading. And don't blame me. Blame all those writers who go on and on about the place.
From "Netherland," by Joseph O'Neill (2008)
Last year, the bank ordered a promising young analyst, Cardozo, to fly over and help me grow the operation. Cardozo, from New York out of Parsippany, New Jersey, loves it here. He has a flat in Chelsea and a girlfriend from Worcestershire who has forgiven him his exotic name. He wears pink shirts with pink silk cuff links. He twirls a tightly furled brolly on sunny days. His pinstripes grow bolder and bolder. I wouldn't be amazed to see a signet ring turn up on his pinkie.
I understand something about what's going on with Cardozo, because when I arrived in London in my twenties I too felt like a performing extra. There was something marvelous about the thousands of men in dark suits daily swarming down Lombard Street - I even remember a bowler hat - and something decidedly romantic about the leftover twinkle of empire that went from Threadneedle Street to the Aldwych to Piccadilly and, like tardy starlight, perpetrated a deception of time. At Eaton Place, in drizzle, I half expected to run into Richard Bellamy, MP; and when I say that in Berkeley Square I once listened for a nightingale, I'm not joking.
But nobody here holds on to such notions for very long. The rain soon becomes emblematic. The double-deckers lose their elephants' charm. London is what it is. In spite of a fresh emphasis on architecture and an influx of can-do Polish plumbers, in spite, too, of the Manhattanish importance lately attached to coffee and sushi and farmers' markets, in spite even of the disturbance of 7/7 - a frightening but not a disorienting occurrence, it turns out - Londoners remain in the business of rowing their boats gently down the stream. Unchanged, accordingly, is the general down-the-hatch, who-are-we-fooling lightheartedness that's aimed at shrinking the significance of our attainments and our doom, and contributes, I've speculated, to the bizarrely premature crystallization of lives here, where men and women past the age of forty, in some cases even the age of thirty, may easily be regarded as over the hill and entitled to an essentially retrospective idea of themselves; whereas in New York selfhood's hill always seemed to lie ahead and to promise a glimpse of further, higher peaks: that you might have no climbing boots to hand was beside the point.
From "Dracula," by Bram Stoker (1897)
In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast number of English books, whole shelves full of them, and bound volumes of magazines and newspapers. A table in the centre was littered with English magazines and newspapers, though none of them were of very recent date. The books were of the most varied kind, history, geography, politics, political economy, botany, geology, law, all relating to England and English life and customs and manners. There were even such books of reference as the London Directory, the "Red" and "Blue" books, Whitaker's Almanac, the Army and Navy Lists, and it somehow gladdened my heart to see it, the Law List.
Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had a good night's rest. Then he went on.
"I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure there is much that will interest you. These companions," and he laid his hand on some of the books, "have been good friends to me, and for some years past, ever since I had the idea of going to London, have given me many, many hours of pleasure. Through them I have come to know your great England, and to know her is to love her. I long to go through the crowded streets of your mighty London, to be in the midst of the whirl and rush of humanity, to share its life, its change, its death, and all that makes it what it is."
"London," by William Blake (1794)
I wander thro' each charter'd street,
Near where the charter'd Thames does flow,
And mark in every face I meet
Marks of weakness, marks of woe.
In every cry of every Man,
In every Infant's cry of fear,
In every voice, in every ban,
The mind-forg'd manacles I hear:
How the Chimney-sweeper's cry
Every blackening Church appalls,
And the hapless Soldier's sigh
Runs in blood down Palace walls.
But most thro' midnight streets I hear
How the youthful Harlot's curse
Blasts the new-born Infant's tear,
And blights with plagues the Marriage hearse.
From "The Secret Agent," by Joseph Conrad (1907)
With a turn to the left Mr Verloc pursued his way along a narrow street by the side of a yellow wall which, for some inscrutable reason, had No. 1 Chesham Square written on it in black letters. Chesham Square was at least sixty yards away, and Mr Verloc, cosmopolitan enough not to be deceived by London's topographical mysteries, held on steadily, without a sign of surprise or indignation. At last, with business-like persistency, he reached the Square, and made diagonally for the number 10. This belonged to an imposing carriage gate in a high, clean wall between two houses, of which one rationally enough bore the number 9 and the other was numbered 37; but the fact that this last belonged to Porthill Street, a street well known in the neighbourhood, was proclaimed by an inscription placed above the ground-floor windows by whatever highly efficient authority is charged with the duty of keeping track of London's strayed houses. Why powers are not asked of Parliament (a short act would do) for compelling those edifices to return where they belong is one of the mysteries of municipal administration. Mr Verloc did not trouble his head about it, his mission in life being the protection of the social mechanism, not its perfectionment or even its criticism.
From "Cloud Atlas," by David Mitchell (2004)
I, Timothy Cavendish, was that swimmer, watching London roll away, yes, you, you sly, toupeed quizmaster of a city, you and your tenements of Somalians; viaducts of Kingdom Brunel; malls of casualized labor; strata of soot-blitzed bricks and muddy bones of Doctors Dee, Crippen et al.; hot glass office buildings where the blooms of youth harden into aged cacti like my penny-pinching brother.
From "The Sign of the Four, " by Arthur Conan Doyle (1890)
At first I had some idea as to the direction in which we were driving but soon, what with our pace, the fog, and my own limited knowledge of London, I lost my bearings and knew nothing save that we seemed to be going a very long way. Sherlock Holmes was never at fault, however, and he muttered the names as the cab rattled through squares and in and out by tortuous by-streets. . . .
"Wandsworth Road," said my companion. "Piriory Road. Larkhall Lane. Stockwell Place. Robert Street. Coldharbour Lane. Our quest does not appear to take us to very fashionable regions.
We had reached a questionable and forbidding neighbourhood. Long lines of dull brick houses were only relieved by the coarse glare and tawdry brilliancy of public-houses at the corner. Then came rows of two-storeyed villas, each with a fronting of miniature garden, and then again interminable lines of new, staring brick buildings -- the monster tentacles which the giant city was throwing out into the country. At last the cab drew up at the third house in a new terrace. None of the other houses were inhabited, and that at which we stopped was as dark as its neighbours, save for a single glimmer in the kitchen-window. On our knocking, however, the door was instantly thrown open by a Hindoo servant, clad in a yellow turban, white loose-fitting clothes, and a yellow sash. There was something strangely incongruous in this Oriental figure framed in the commonplace doorway of a third-rate suburban dwelling-house.
From "Bleak House," by Charles Dickens (1853)
Jo lives-that is to say, Jo has not yet died-in a ruinous place known to the like of him by the name of Tom-all-Alone's. It is a black, dilapidated street, avoided by all decent people, where the crazy houses were seized upon, when their decay was far advanced, by some bold vagrants who after establishing their own possession took to letting them out in lodgings. Now, these tumbling tenements contain, by night, a swarm of misery. As on the ruined human wretch vermin parasites appear, so these ruined shelters have bred a crowd of foul existence that crawls in and out of gaps in walls and boards; and coils itself to sleep, in maggot numbers, where the rain drips in; and comes and goes, fetching and carrying fever and sowing more evil in its every footprint than Lord Coodle, and Sir Thomas Doodle, and the Duke of Foodle, and all the fine gentlemen in office, down to Zoodle, shall set right in five hundred years-though born expressly to do it.
Twice lately there has been a crash and a cloud of dust, like the springing of a mine, in Tom-all-Alone's; and each time a house has fallen. These accidents have made a paragraph in the newspapers and have filled a bed or two in the nearest hospital. The gaps remain, and there are not unpopular lodgings among the rubbish. As several more houses are nearly ready to go, the next crash in Tom-all-Alone's may be expected to be a good one.
* * *
But he has his revenge. Even the winds are his messengers, and they serve him in these hours of darkness. There is not a drop of Tom's corrupted blood but propagates infection and contagion somewhere. It shall pollute, this very night, the choice stream (in which chemists on analysis would find the genuine nobility) of a Norman house, and his Grace shall not be able to say nay to the infamous alliance. There is not an atom of Tom's slime, not a cubic inch of any pestilential gas in which he lives, not one obscenity or degradation about him, not an ignorance, not a wickedness, not a brutality of his committing, but shall work its retribution through every order of society up to the proudest of the proud and to the highest of the high. Verily, what with tainting, plundering, and spoiling, Tom has his revenge.
It is a moot point whether Tom-all-Alone's be uglier by day or by night, but on the argument that the more that is seen of it the more shocking it must be, and that no part of it left to the imagination is at all likely to be made so bad as the reality, day carries it. The day begins to break now; and in truth it might be better for the national glory even that the sun should sometimes set upon the British dominions than that it should ever rise upon so vile a wonder as Tom.
From "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," by Robert Louis Stevenson (1886)
It was by this time about nine in the morning, and the first fog of the season. A great chocolate-coloured pall lowered over heaven, but the wind was continually charging and routing these embattled vapours; so that as the cab crawled from street to street, Mr. Utterson beheld a marvellous number of degrees and hues of twilight; for here it would be dark like the back-end of evening; and there would be a glow of a rich, lurid brown, like the light of some strange conflagration; and here, for a moment, the fog would be quite broken up, and a haggard shaft of daylight would glance in between the swirling wreaths. The dismal quarter of Soho seen under these changing glimpses, with its muddy ways, and slatternly passengers, and its lamps, which had never been extinguished or had been kindled afresh to combat this mournful re-invasion of darkness, seemed, in the lawyer's eyes, like a district of some city in a nightmare. The thoughts of his mind, besides, were of the gloomiest dye; and when he glanced at the companion of his drive, he was conscious of some touch of that terror of the law and the law's officers, which may at times assail the most honest.
As the cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted a little and showed him a dingy street, a gin palace, a low French eating-house, a shop for the retail of penny numbers and twopenny salads, many ragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of different nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morning glass; and the next moment the fog settled down again upon that part, as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly surroundings. This was the home of Henry Jekyll's favourite; of a man who was heir to a quarter of a million sterling.
From "Neverwhere," by Neil Gaiman (1996)
He was fond of St. Paul's, and it, at least, had changed little in the last three hundred years. It had been built in white Portland stone, which had, before it was even completed, begun to turn black from the soot and the filth and in the smoky London air and now, following the cleaning of London in the 1970s, was more or less white again, but it was still St. Paul's. He was not sure that the same could be said for the rest of the City of London: he peered over the roof, stared away from his beloved sky, down to the sodium-lit pavement below. He could see security cameras affixed to a wall, and a few cars, and one late office worker, locking a door and then walking toward the Tube. Brr. Even the thought of going underground made Old Bailey shudder. He was a roof-man and proud of it; had fled the world at ground level so long ago . . .
Old Bailey remembered when people had actually lived here in the City, not just worked; when they had lived and lusted and laughed, built ramshackle houses one leaning against the next, each house filled with noisy people. Why, the noise and the mess and the stinks and the songs from the alley across the way . . . had been legendary in their time, but no one lived in the City now. It was a cold and cheerless place of offices, of people who worked in the day and went home to somewhere else at night. It was not a place for living anymore. He even missed the stinks.
From "The Education of Henry Adams," by Henry Adams (1918)
London was still London. A certain style dignified its grime; heavy, clumsy, arrogant, purse-proud, but not cheap; insular but large; barely tolerant of an outside world, and absolutely self-confident. The boys in the streets made such free comments on the American clothes and figures, that the travellers hurried to put on tall hats and long overcoats to escape criticism. No stranger had rights even in the Strand. The eighteenth century held its own. History muttered down Fleet Street, like Dr. Johnson, in Adams's ear; Vanity Fair was alive on Piccadilly in yellow chariots with coachmen in wigs, on hammer-cloths; footmen with canes, on the footboard, and a shriveled old woman inside; half the great houses, black with London smoke, bore large funereal hatchments; every one seemed insolent, and the most insolent structures in the world were the Royal Exchange and the Bank of England. In November, 1858, London was still vast, but it was the London of the eighteenth century that an American felt and hated.
Education went backward. Adams, still a boy, could not guess how intensely intimate this London grime was to become to him as a man, but he could still less conceive himself returning to it fifty years afterwards, noting at each turn how the great city grew smaller as it doubled in size; cheaper as it quadrupled its wealth; less imperial as its empire widened; less dignified as it tried to be civil. He liked it best when he hated it.
From "The Expedition of Humphry Clinker," by Tobias Smollett (1771)
O Molly! what shall I say of London? All the towns that ever I beheld in my born-days, are no more than Welsh barrows and crumlecks to this wonderful sitty! Even Bath itself is but a fillitch, in the naam of God - One would think there's no end of the streets, but the land's end. Then there's such a power of people, going hurry skurry! Such a racket of coxes! Such a noise, and haliballoo! So many strange sites to be seen! O gracious! my poor Welsh brain has been spinning like a top ever since I came hither! And I have seen the Park, and the paleass of Saint Gimses, and the king's and the queen's magisterial pursing, and the sweet young princes, and the hillyfents, and pye bald ass, and all the rest of the royal family. [Win Jenkins, to Mary Jones]
* * *
Now, mark the contrast at London - I am pent up in frowzy lodgings, where there is not room enough to swing a cat; and I breathe the steams of endless putrefaction; and these would, undoubtedly, produce a pestilence, if they were not qualified by the gross acid of sea-coal, which is itself a pernicious nuisance to lungs of any delicacy of texture: but even this boasted corrector cannot prevent those languid, sallow looks, that distinguish the inhabitants of London from those ruddy swains that lead a country-life - I go to bed after midnight, jaded and restless from the dissipations of the day - I start every hour from my sleep, at the horrid noise of the watchmen bawling the hour through every street, and thundering at every door; a set of useless fellows, who serve no other purpose but that of disturbing the repose of the inhabitants; and by five o'clock I start out of bed, in consequence of the still more dreadful alarm made by the country carts, and noisy rustics bellowing green pease under my window. If I would drink water, I must quaff the maukish contents of an open aqueduct, exposed to all manner of defilement; or swallow that which comes from the river Thames, impregnated with all the filth of London and Westminster - Human excrement is the least offensive part of the concrete, which is composed of all the drugs, minerals, and poisons, used in mechanics and manufacture, enriched with the putrefying carcasses of beasts and men; and mixed with the scourings of all the wash-tubs, kennels, and common sewers, within the bills of mortality.
This is the agreeable potation, extolled by the Londoners, as the finest water in the universe - As to the intoxicating potion, sold for wine, it is a vile, unpalatable, and pernicious sophistication, balderdashed with cyder, corn-spirit, and the juice of sloes. In an action at law, laid against a carman for having staved a cask of port, it appeared from the evidence of the cooper, that there were not above five gallons of real wine in the whole pipe, which held above a hundred, and even that had been brewed and adulterated by the merchant at Oporto. The bread I cat in London, is a deleterious paste, mixed up with chalk, alum, and bone-ashes; insipid to the taste, and destructive to the constitution. The good people are not ignorant of this adulteration - but they prefer it to wholesome bread, because it is whiter than the meal of corn: thus they sacrifice their taste and their health, and the lives of their tender infants, to a most absurd gratification of a mis-judging eye; and the miller, or the baker, is obliged to poison them and their families, in order to live by his profession. [Matt. Bramble, to Dr. Lewis]
From "Villette," by Charlotte Bronte
About nine o'clock of a wet February night I reached London.
My reader, I know, is one who would not thank me for an elaborate reproduction of poetic first impressions; and it is well, inasmuch as I had neither time nor mood to cherish such; arriving as I did late, on a dark, raw, and rainy evening, in a Babylon and a wilderness, of which the vastness and the strangeness tried to the utmost any powers of clear thought and steady self-possession with which, in the absence of more brilliant faculties, Nature might have gifted me.
From "Gravity's Rainbow," by Thomas Pynchon (1973)
"In some cities the rich live upon the heights, and the poor are found below. In others the rich occupy the shoreline, while the poor must live inland. Now in London, here is a gra-dient of wretchedness? increasing as the river widens to the sea. I am only ask-ing, why? Is it because of the ship-ping? Is it in the pat-terns of land use, especially those relating to the Industrial Age? Is it a case of an-cient tribal tabu, surviving down all the Eng-lish generations? No. The true reason is the Threat From The East, you see. And the South: from the mass of Eu-rope, certainly. The people out here were . We're expendable: those in the West End, and North of the river are not. Oh, I don't mean the Threat has this or that specific shape. Political, no. If the City Paranoiac dreams, it's not accessible to us. Perhaps the Ci-ty dreamed of another, en-emy city, float-ing across the sea to invade the es-tuary . . . or of waves of darkness . . . waves of fire. . . . Perhaps of being swallowed again, by the immense, the si-lent Mother Con-tinent? It's none of business, city creams. . . . But what if the Ci-ty were a growing neo-plasm, across the centuries, always chang-ing, to meet exactly the chang-ing shape of its very worst, se-cret fears? The raggedy pawns, the disgraced bish-op and cowardly knight, all we condemned, we irreversibly lost, are left out here, exposed and wait-ing. It was known, don't deny it - , Pointsman! That the front in Eu-rope someday develop like this? move away east, make the rock-ets necessary, and how, and where, the rockets would fall short. Ask your friend Mexico? look at the densities on his map? east, east, and south of the river too, where all the bugs live, that who's getting it -est, my friend."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); RANKINGS (90%) Books and Literature; London (England)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



180 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Out of Community Colleges and Into For-Profits

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Some of the biggest beneficiaries of state budget cuts for higher education are for-profit programs, which make their bread and butter from federal educational subsidies. 

 BODY:
Last week I wroteabout how cash-strapped state schools are cutting courses that cost more to teach, which unfortunately also happen to be the classes that are most likely to get students jobs (nursing, engineering, etc.).
A couple of readers wrote to me asking why private schools don't just step in to fulfill unmet demand for job-friendly courses unavailable at community colleges.
Many private colleges are doing just that. In fact, perhaps the biggest beneficiaries of state cutbacks for higher education are the private for-profit schools, like the University of Phoenix and Kaplan University.
John Aubrey Douglass, a research fellow at the Center for Studies in Higher Education at the University of California, Berkeley, actually wrote a paper last month about this shift from public colleges to for-profits, which has precedents. He calls it the "Brazilian effect":
... when public higher education cannot keep pace with growing public demand for access and programs, governments often allow [for-profits] to rush in and help fill the gap, becoming a much larger and sometimes dominant provider. This is the pattern in many developing economies such as Brazil where some 50 percent of student enrollment is in profit-driven private institutions and in Korea, Poland and many other parts of the world.
The merits of routing students away from public schools and into for-profits are debatable. The for-profits can be seen as "nimble critters" and/or "agile predators," to use the language of three Harvard economists who analyzed this sector in a recent paper.
On one hand, these schools are very adaptive and are fulfilling unmet demand, particularly among a low-income population that could benefit most from more education. For-profits offer training for just about every possible career and generally serve as many students as they can.
On the other hand, the for-profits are relatively unregulated, and many are fly-by-night operations that scam students. They also charge a lot more than community colleges and can afford to do so because the federal government helps pay their tuition.
According to the Harvard economists' paper, nearly three-quarters of the revenues of Title IV-eligible private for-profits come from federal loans and grants. (Title IV refers to requirements schools must meet, like formal accreditation, to qualify their students for federal aid.) Many of these schools have a reputation for rigorously helping students apply for federal aid, and then less rigorously making sure students get a degree and marketable skills.
So even though taxpayers have gradually withdrawn their subsidies for state schools, they are gradually increasing their subsidies for for-profits instead, in the form of federal grants and loans.
And it's not clear that the educational outcome is better.

        
A Reason to Major in the Humanities
        
United States of Health Care
        
Why Students Leave the Engineering Track
        
Do College Grads Earn Less Now Than 40 Years Ago?
        
Getting a Degree: Less Rigor, More Value

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ACCREDITATION (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%) Colleges and Universities; for-profit colleges; higher education; is college worth it; subsidies; Federal Aid (US); For-Profit Schools; Student Loans

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (57%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



181 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Is Copenhagen Brilliant?

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: In the newest piece from the IHT's Smart Cities series, Nick Foster examines two projects that are building whole new neighborhoods in Copenhagen at a cost of several billion euros. What's the opposite of austerity? 

 BODY:
How is a relatively small north European capital supposed to compete with the likes of London, Berlin, New York and Shanghai - well, Berlin, New York and Shanghai anyway, after what we learned about London from the China Miville piece in this week's The New York Times Magazine. 
Copenhagen is determined - even in tough economic times for Europe and the world - to build whole new neighborhoods to make their capital city a world-class engine to drive the Danish economy, and to accommodate an expected 10 percent increase in population by 2025. 
In the newest installment of our series on Smart Cities, Nick Foster details the dreams - pipe dreams? - of Copenhagen that are taking form in the windswept capital between the North Sea and the Baltic.
Smart Cities, of course, examines the myriad ways our world is changing and will change because a majority of humanity, for the first time in history, now lives in cities, and by 2050, 70 percent of us will. 
We have already looked at how Singapore is remaking itself into an urban jungle; how Fort Collins, Colorado overturned the traditional planning process when it couldn't afford it - and the surprising results; and how Rio de Janiero is using technology to prepare for and respond to disasters; the hippest Smart Cities: 
and much more.
Now Nick tells us, that two developments -one a 600-meter by 5 kilometers (2,000-foot by 3.1 miles) strip of barren flatlands between the southern fringe of the capital and its international airport - are supposed to convince both businesses and young families to stay in the city instead of moving to the suburbs - or abroad.
"Businesses have moved into Orestad, but the plan has not yet proved hugely successful in attracting new residents," says Nick. There are cows though. But as the development fills in with buildings, they'll be fewer of them. 
"Although new buildings are being put up at a slower pace than before the financial crises," he writes. "Building in Orestad has not stopped. And officials here say it is because they must grow or stagnate." 
Do you agree? Must cities grow or die? Is Copenhagen preparing itself in these hard times to benefit when the good times return? Will this infrastructure, which includes the longest bridge-tunnel span in Europe, make it ready to profit from the next boom? 
Are cities that have stopped building and are instead dismantling infrastructure and safety nets beggaring their future? Or are many of our cities' egos too big for their wallets? Do too many cities aspire to fanciful dreams rather than fixing and maintaining what's there? 
And tell us, what is the smartest city that we haven't covered yet? Or the dumbest? Please speak freely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SUBURBS (71%); TRENDS (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (55%); AIRPORTS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Infrastructure (Public Works); Copenhagen (Denmark); Featured; Smart Cities

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (76%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); DENMARK (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (90%) Copenhagen (Denmark)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



182 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Striking Oil, Artistically, in Midtown

BYLINE: DOROTHY SPEARS


HIGHLIGHT: By introducing pump jacks into a context more typically defined by eye-popping electronic billboards, an artist tries to show "the flip side of what we actually have to do to provide all of that energy." 

 BODY:
If it looks as if someone just struck oil in a vacant lot near Times Square, it may be a while before you see any evidence of Texas tea. 
The two 25-foot simulated oil pump jacks bobbing up and down at the southeast corner of 46th Street and Eighth Avenue are actually a new sculptural work by the New York-based artist Josephine Meckseper. An initiative by the nonprofit Art Production Fund, "Manhattan Oil Project" officially opens today and will remain on view through May 6. 
By introducing pump jacks, a familiar symbol of American oil-producing towns, into a context more typically defined by eye-popping electronic billboards and dazzling lights, "I wanted to show the consequences, or the flip side, of what we actually have to do to provide all of that energy," Ms. Meckseper, 47, said in an interview last week.
"In the worst-case scenario, it has meant that soldiers have to be dispatched to Iraq to secure the resources we need to continue," she said.
Ms. Meckseper's work typically addresses weighty environmental and economic issues, but in this case it also injects a much-needed dose of humor and liveliness to its immediate setting. Only a block from the heart of Times Square, her red and black sculptures are surrounded by an Irish pub, a parking lot and a crooked billboard advertising "Jesus Christ Superstar." (The pub provided the electrical connection for the jacks' pumping motion.)

Produced by an industrial metal fabricator who Ms. Meckseper said could just have easily produced an actual working oil pump, the sculptures nonetheless project a cool aesthetic that brings to mind the insect-like abstractions of mid-to-late 20th century modernists like Alexander Calder and Mark di Suvero.
Yet Ms. Meckseper consistently grounds her work in what she called "real political dilemmas" relating to our oil-dependent economy. "A lot of my work has dealt with the wasting of resources," she said over tea at a brasserie across the street from the installation. 
When the Bush administration began gearing up for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Ms. Meckseper, who was born in Germany but has lived in the United States for 20 years, traveled around the world filming and photographing demonstrations against the war. (A suite of five photographs depicting a rally in Berlin, "Untitled (Berlin Demonstration Series 1)," is currently on view in the exhibition "Singular Visions" at the Whitney Museum of American Art, which runs to the end of June.)
More recently, for an exhibition at the Migros Museum in Zurich, Ms. Meckseper presented a 2008 film,"0% Down," which she describes as "a collage of car commercials, with an extremely aggressive, militaristic and also pro-oil tone." 
"It was kind of a parody," she said, noting that on the day of the opening, several automakers declared bankruptcy.
The Zurich show created a buzz, and before long, Yvonne Force Villareal, co-founder of the Art Production Fund, was discussing a possible project with Ms. Meckseper at the Eighth Avenue site. Ms. Meckseper, who had exhibited small-scale models of oil pumps at the Migros Museum, "almost immediately suggested oil rigs on a much grander scale, and kinetic," Ms. Villareal said. 
("Manhattan Oil Project" is presented with support from Sotheby's and the Times Square Alliance; the Shubert Organization donated use of the site, known as Last Lot.)
Setting out to produce a pump in which "all of the details and materials were exactly to scale," Ms. Meckseper said that she and her New York-based studio began searching for a place in the United States with a high density of oil pumps that are still working. 
Her research led her to Electra, Tex. Even though the concentration of functioning pumps there was probably greater than in most other towns, she said, it had "the sense of an oil pump cemetery." 
In a landscape littered with rusted oil rigs, Ms. Meckseper began taking pictures. "It was actually quite eerie because there was nobody around," she said. 
Given that the pumps "just kind of work on their own, it really felt like a sci-fi movie," she said, with the oil pumps as aliens casting long shadows.
For Ms. Meckseper, towns like Electra exemplify how industrial production has been outsourced to other countries, leading to job losses and forever altering the lives of individuals. "I've read so many stories recently where the first thing people can't afford is their heating bill," she said.
On this rather dour note, Ms. Meckseper, who kept her coat on throughout our interview, looked up from her tea and gazed across Eighth Avenue, which was slick with rain. 
Suddenly, the long arms of her sculptures began their simulated pumping motion. The electrical connection had been established. 
"Oh, I have to go," she said. And grabbing her umbrella, the artist rushed out with her phone to capture the first movements of her sculpture on video.

        
On Our Radar: A Fracking Confrontation in Ohio
        
U.S. Plans to Delay Keystone Decision, Officials Say
        
Oil Executives Lash Out Against Subsidy Cuts
        
Round Up the Usual C.E.O.'s
        
In Texas, Questions of Drought and Climate Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RELIGION (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) "Manhattan Oil Project"; Art Production Fund; Josephine Meckseper; oil industry; sculptures; Meckseper, Josephine; Art; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Manhattan (NYC); Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); Zurich (Switzerland); Conventional Energy; Living; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: Art Production Fund

PERSON: Meckseper, Josephine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ZURICH (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) Manhattan (NYC); Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); Zurich (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



183 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Protests Over Tuition Increases Jolt the Capitol

BYLINE: JOHN ELIGON


HIGHLIGHT: About 300 students, most of them from public universities in New York, rattled the Capitol with protests on Monday, denouncing tuition increases at public universities that were approved last year. 

 BODY:
ALBANY - About 300 students, most of them from public universities in New York, rattled the Capitol on Monday with an outburst of loud protests, in the gallery of the Senate Chamber and outside the governor's office.
The students, part of a statewide coalition of campus organizations called New York Students Rising, were objecting to the tuition hikes that were approved last year under a measure that permits public universities in New York to increase tuition by up to 5 percent per year over the next five years. The research universities at Albany, Buffalo, Binghamton and Stony Brook are permitted an additional 3 percent tuition increase each year.
The bill also allows the universities to form partnerships with private corporations for development, a change that Alexi Shalom, a student at Hunter College, said he feared would bring for-profit enterprises into the public universities.
"It's a public university," he said. "It's supposed to be funded by tax dollars. We oppose corporations and big business being involved in our education."
As the Senate session began on Monday, students sitting in the gallery began chanting, a rare display of disorder that briefly delayed the session.
Later, the students sat outside Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's office on the second floor of the Capitol. They chanted, "Cuomo, Cuomo come on out; face the students you sold out," and "We are unstoppable, another world is possible."
"We're trying to make him come out and face what he did and explain himself and try to get him to change his mind," said Chanee Cameron, a 20-year-old State University at Binghamton student.
Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, declined to comment.
State troopers lined the hallways, attempting to keep the protest in order. There were some tense moments when the troopers demanded that some of the protesters back away from the office, and leave clear passages in the hallways for passers-by.
33 protesters voluntarily submitted themselves to arrest, according to Michael Kink, the executive director of the Strong Economy for All Coalition.
"The whole SUNY 2020 situation is ridiculous," said Kevin Lapierre, a 21-year-old student at Binghamton, referring to the tuition measure. "The way that tuition hikes keep happening, we need to stand up now and make our voices heard."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (96%); TUITION FEES (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Colleges and Universities; Senate; State University of New York at Stony Brook; Strong Economy for All Coalition; Binghamton (NY); New York State

ORGANIZATION: Senate; State University of New York at Stony Brook; Strong Economy for All Coalition

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Binghamton (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



184 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: How Many Jobs Has Apple Created?

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Apple has made its first attempt to quantify how many American jobs can be credited to the sale of its products, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's Times. The total includes the Apple engineers who design the devices and the drivers who deliver them - even the people who build the trucks that get them there. 

 BODY:
 Apple has made its first attempt to quantify how many American jobs can be credited to the sale of its iPads and other products, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's Times. The total includes the Apple engineers who design the devices and the drivers who deliver them - even the people who build the trucks that get them there.
The company published the results of a study it commissioned saying that it had "created or supported" 514,000 jobs in the United States. The study is an effort to show that Apple's benefit to the American job market goes far beyond the 47,000 people it directly employs here.
The accuracy of the Apple jobs calculation may well be debated among economists for years. A number of companies, including Microsoft, have commissioned similar research aiming to tally up such indirect employment, by suppliers and other partners. The use of "job multipliers" has become common practice, but the calculations of such multipliers are often fiercely debated both in economic and political terms.
The Washington Post noted that this was an unusual bit of self-promotion from Apple, which generally steers clear of debates about the impact of its business. 

        
Disruptions: No More Innovation for the Fun of It
        
Windows 8, the Missing Piece: Hardware
        
How Windows 8 Transforms Enterprise Computing
        
Bringing Some of That Smartphone Buzz to Computers
        
Apple Loophole Gives Developers Access to Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%) apple; Labor and Jobs; Apple Incorporated; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ; Devices; Policy

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Incorporated

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); WPO (NYSE) (55%) Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



185 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: An Immense Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: When was the last time you were in a video store? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: The Chairman's Surprise
In his report to Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, expresses surprise at how fast unemployment is falling and warns lawmakers that our nation is headed for a "massive fiscal cliff." New research from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis says there is more than enough kindling to start an inflation inferno. These charts show that it's not just the Fed's liquidity pump that is lifting markets. The Senate is pushing bills to help small businesses and House Republicans unveil a jobs package. A new report suggests the wealthy are more likely to cheat and lie. The Mathbabe says economists don't understand the financial system.
The Data: On the Cost ff Living
A survey of finance professionals reports that global trade is drying up. The Truck Tonnage Index falls. Ted Kavadas updates 10 scary charts. Manufacturing expansion slows. Housing prices decline to a new post-bubble low. Orders for durable goods (PDF) fall. The Restaurant Performance Index dips. Gross Domestic Product is revised up and consumers are spending more as their confidence nears pre-recession levels. Auto sales jump. Pending home sales suggest an improving market. And five leading economic indexes increase. You tell me: does the cost of living really outweigh the benefits?
The Economy: Gas Prices
Kevin Drum answers questions about gas prices, which are hindering some small-business owners and benefiting others. A study says entrepreneurs are optimistic about 2012. A pessimist and an optimist talk at TED. The Small Business Administration's Karen Mills says small manufacturers are driving job creation and economic growth. A new world record for paper airplane throwing is achieved.
Management: Don't Listen to Customers 
New data show that women are making less than men at every level (and single women are advised to travel with a wedding ring). CNBC's Becky Quick gives a piece of her mind to sexist business owners. Steve Blank explains how listening to your customers can kill your start-up: "Your job is not to make every possible customer happy." But Jason Trevisan says that giving a "bear hug" to your customers will make your company worth more. Mariam Noronha gives advices on how to manage people effectively. Alessandro Di Fiore says not to let a spreadsheet determine where you locate your business. Christopher Penn explains what killed this four-star restaurant. American workers would trade pay for better retirement benefits.
Ideas: More Daily Deals?
Jill Donenfeld explains how she started her home chef service. An Israeli start-up uses technology to help women find the perfect bra. The winners of the 2012 Short Tale Awards for excellence in the use of short video in front office sales, marketing and service are announced. Small Business Trends lists its 2012 small-business book awards. Constant Contact gets into the daily deals business. This 28-year-old entrepreneur's start-up is on a tear. A newspaper in France is published once every four years. Steven Chu says that battery innovation is alive and well in the United States, and a small company may be close to cutting battery costs in half. Intel Capital is looking to invest $100 million in "connected car tech." Here are four ways small businesses can score with "gamification." A new service helps developers create coupon and loyalty applications that can work with credit cards. This 8-year-old girl is a life coach who will solve your everyday problems.
Marketing: Tiny Budgets
This cool infographic shows how small businesses are using social media. The data show that Pinterest is used mostly by adults, and Debbie Hemley suggests what your business can do with the site. Here are three things retailers can learn from mom-and-pop Facebook stores. Twitter is trying to lure small businesses with its advertising platform. A Nascar driver tweets from his car and gains more than 100,000 followers in two hours. Google Plus users spent just 3.3 minutes per visit on the site in January. American Express publishes a video on the importance of Foursquare. Ramon Ray gives six reasons savvy businesses use e-mail instead of social media, and TJ McCue shares 24 more e-mail marketing applications. Businesses that blog generate more e-mail traffic. Jill Konrath's video explains why you should never send funny items to your prospects. Rieva Lesonsky reports that small-business marketing budgets for 2012 are "tiny." The data show that 2011's Small Business Saturday was a hit. Richard Moross says that business cards can still pack a punch. Dan Taylor suggest five ways to generate leads with LinkedIn, including: "With the mission of positioning yourself as a thought leader in your industry, go ahead and share some content with your LinkedIn contacts that you find interesting. Does it seek to solve a potential customer's problem? Bingo!"
Finance: Surviving on $350,000 a Year
Banks posted their most profitable year since 2006, and some say we are experiencing a boon in low-cost borrowing. Small businesses are borrowing more. A new site helps small companies manage receivables and collections. A new service will help start-ups and freelancers get paid on time. The online payments platform WePay adds invoicing. A mobile application service that connects consumers with businesses in order to improve customer service receives $2.7 million in financing. Here are six factors to consider when choosing an online credit card processor. New research indicates that business owners are unprepared for retirement. Neil Sisson shows why heloves "crowd-funding" for start-ups. And Ben Horowitz reveals the lies that losers tell, including: "Just because we missed the intermediate milestones doesn't mean we won't hit our product schedule." Could you survive on $350,000 a year?
Red Tape: Healthier Towns
The Internal Revenue Service releases better guidance on the health care tax credit for small businesses. Many states are taking a wait-and-see approach on new insurance exchanges. A House subcommittee votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act's "death panels." The solution to our health care problems? Move to a town with more small businesses (they have healthier people!). An insurance consultant warns business owners not to assume that the fate of the Affordable Care Act rests solely with constitutional review by the Supreme Court. Ramesh Ponnuru blames small businesses for killing corporate-tax reform, and Jody Westby says cyber legislation will cost businesses and hurt the economy. Ross Kenneth Urken shares a few tax audit horror stories. Kimberly Palmer lists 10 things you should know about your 2011 taxes, including: "Independent income often means you can deduct business expenses." Sage's Small Business Sentiment (PDF) survey finds that the cost of business, high taxes and excessive regulations could hinder growth in 2012.
Boss of the Week: Tony Lee, who goes from janitor to business owner and rescues an Ohio factory.
Around the Country: The 'Smoffice'
Regional manufacturing expanded in Richmond (PDF) and Dallas, but neither city is located in the country'shappiest state. Here is how Google's search changes will affect local businesses around the country. Google kicks off a program to get more North Carolina small businesses online while a contest in Durham offers entrepreneurs the chance to win six months in the "Smoffice" -- the world's smallest office. Not to be outdone, South Carolina introduces a Web site for entrepreneurs. A Tennessee city with superfast Internet service invites innovators to play. A New York state small-business development center helps small wineries export products to China, and a Santa Cruz, Calif., small-business development center gets rave reviews. A grizzly bear visits with tourists in Alaska.
Tech: Windows 8
Windows 8 for consumers is released, and Tom Krazit says it's Microsoft's most important release in years. Here are five killer Web apps for business. Salesforce.com puts a halt to its building plans. The State Departmentswitches to Chrome, and Google offers a million dollars to anyone who can hack its browser. Patrick Kiger offers tech tips for road warriors. Bees go robotic. Computer programmers are among the most sleep deprived (if you're reading this and still awake, you probably don't live in the South). Verizon's Galaxy Tab 7.7 arrives. Even after this announcement, there are still 1,000 Blockbuster stores. A leisurely game of table tennis turns awesome.
The Week's Bests
Approach to sales. Kevin Daw says candidates for sales roles need specific personality traits, like empathy: "In order to know how best to approach selling your product, you must first discover where there is a need for your goods and services, and understand that need. This varies greatly from prospect to prospect, and therefore you must fully understand the particular business strategy of each, and empathize with their unique situations, for the best shot at pitching them something they truly need and therefore are likely to buy from you."
Way to invest. Jeremy Grantham shares 10 investment lessons: "Try to contain natural optimism. Nobody likes a Debbie Downer, but on Wall Street it's bad for business. Optimism can win friends and influence people, but it's a lousy investment strategy. You have to be willing to hear bearish, bad news about the risks you've taken with your money - and to make informed decisions about it."
Way to Treat a Journalist. Dmitry Dragilev explains how start-ups can build lasting relationships with journalists: "Date before you pitch. Don't expect to pitch someone who doesn't know you or your product, in the hopes that person will understand the story and details just right - all in a few days. Instead, build a strong relationship that benefits both of you - it's the only way you can ensure great news coverage of your product launch."
This Week's Question: When was the last time you were in a video store?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Redefining Small
        
This Week in Small Business: Lessons From Chuck Norris
        
Economic Indicator? How About Picture Framing?
        
This Week in Small Business: The Bacon Milkshake
        
This Week in Small Business: Jobs!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RECESSION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Sales; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012



186 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Venture Capitalist Pioneer Talks Taxes, Tech and Facebook

BYLINE: JANET MORRISSEY


HIGHLIGHT: Even as the market remains wobbly and the economy weak, Frederick R. Adler is optimistic about the country's prospects. 

 BODY:
Even as the market remains wobbly and the economy weak, Frederick R. Adler, the venture capitalist pioneer, is optimistic about the country's prospects. 
Mr. Adler, 86, has been through down cycles before and thinks the doom-and-gloom outlook is overblown.
"Everybody is so bloody sour," Mr. Adler said in a rare interview at his 23rd-floor luxury condo overlooking Central Park in Midtown Manhattan. "I think every problem in this country is solvable." 
 As he looks forward, Mr. Adler, who scored with early investments in Data General, Life Technologies, Daisy Systems and Advanced Technology Labs, thinks tax policy will be crucial. The so-called Buffett Rule, he said, is a good idea, but he'd tweak the criteria. 
"The upper upper rich haven't really been taxed properly - people whose net worth is at least $500 million - you have to have more taxation," he said. Below the $500 million level, tax increases should be graduated. "A lot of my friends will probably shoot me for saying this," he said.
Mr. Adler said the all-or-nothing approach on taxation taken by presidential candidates would not work. "I have great respect" for President Obama and Mitt Romney, he said. But he added that they both needed to compromise. "Obama wants to spread the wealth totally, which I think is a mistake, and I think Romney may not allow the taxes to go as high as they should be," Mr. Adler said. "At the highest level, I believe [taxes] must be much higher." 
He also doesn't think a Republican is necessary for change, a view that differs from some of his Wall Street pals. Instead, Mr. Adler noted the similarities between Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama. "I think they're both highly intelligent, they both care very deeply about the people in this country, and they both have great backgrounds," he said. He noted that the Obamas, Mr. Romney's father and Mr. Adler's own family came from nothing and built their success and fortune. 
"I'm a flag waver - I make no bones about it," he said "This country is my life."
Despite the volatile and uncertain economy, Mr. Adler sees opportunity in the markets. He declined to say where he's placing his money these days, but he did offer his thoughts on the technology boom and fanfare around Facebook's initial public offering. 
"A lot of people are going to make money out of Facebook - it will do well for a while," he said.
However, he believes competitors won't be far behind and will challenge the social networking giant. Facebook is the early mover into the space, and investors should not underestimate the entry of new players, said Mr. Adler, who saw much of this first hand in the early days of Silicon Valley.
"Everybody forgets who's up in the Pacific Northwest - Microsoft," he said. "I wouldn't bet against Microsoft. Why can't they do something every bit as good?"

        
A Big Bet on Zuckerberg
        
Despite RIM Takeover Talk, Hurdles Would Be High

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (83%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (60%) Facebook; Fred Adler; Microsoft; Venture Capital; Adler, Frederick R.; 2012 Elections; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); ATL ULTRASOUND INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



187 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: As an Adviser, Goldman Guaranteed Its Payday

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: In an advisory role in a deal for the El Paso Corporation, Goldman Sachs was on every conceivable side of the negotiations, and El Paso may have unwittingly sold itself at far too cheap a price. 

 BODY:
Lloyd C. Blankfein had a script for his phone call.
"Hello, Doug - it's been a long time since we have had the chance to visit," say the notes prepared for his call with Douglas L. Foshee, chief executive of the El Paso Corporation, the big energy company that last fall was in talks to be sold to Kinder Morgan. "I was very pleased you reached out to us on this most recent matter," the script goes, thanking Mr. Foshee for using Goldman as El Paso's adviser in the transaction. Mr. Blankfein added that he knew Mr. Foshee was aware of Goldman's investment in Kinder Morgan "and that we are very sensitive to the appearance of conflict."
Somewhat awkwardly, Goldman had a 19.1 percent stake in Kinder Morgan, the pipeline and energy storage company, and two seats on its board. So the script went on, "We have asked our board members to recuse themselves and I know you have taken on a second adviser." He added, "Really just wanted to reach out and say thank you."
 About a month later, Kinder Morgan announced it had agreed to acquire El Paso for $21.1 billion in cash and stock.
When the deal was announced, buried at the end of the news release was a list of Wall Street banks that had advised on the deal, including Goldman Sachs. Goldman received a $20 million fee for playing matchmaker for El Paso. The fee, of course, was not disclosed, nor was the Kinder Morgan stake owned by Goldman Sachs's private equity arm, worth some $4 billion. Nor did the release disclose that the Goldman banker who advised El Paso to accept Kinder Morgan's bid owned $340,000 worth of Kinder Morgan stock.
Now, however, a court ruling in a shareholder lawsuit has laid bare the truth: Goldman was on every conceivable side of the deal. As a result, El Paso may have unwittingly sold itself far too cheaply. Mr. Blankfein may have said he was "very sensitive to the appearance of conflict," but the judge's order ruling "reluctantly" against a motion to block the merger made it clear that Goldman's conflicts went far beyond mere appearances.
Here's just one example: In an effort to help mitigate its clear conflict, Goldman Sachs recommended that El Paso hire an additional adviser so that El Paso would be able to say that it had received completely impartial advice. Goldman did not say it would step down, and lose its fee, it simply suggested that El Paso hire one more bank - in this case, Morgan Stanley.
But then came this: "When a second investment bank was brought in to address Goldman's economic incentive for a deal with, and on terms that favored, Kinder Morgan, Goldman continued to intervene and advise El Paso on strategic alternatives, and with its friends in El Paso management, was able to achieve a remarkable feat: giving the new investment bank an incentive to favor the merger by making sure that this bank only got paid if El Paso adopted the strategic option of selling to Kinder Morgan," Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. of Delaware's Court of Chancery wrote last weekin a must-read opinion that has been whizzing around the in-boxes of Wall Street.
"In other words," Chancellor Strine continued, "the conflict-cleansing bank only got paid if the option Goldman's financial incentives gave it a reason to prefer was the one chosen."
Goldman denied that it was involved with the structure of Morgan Stanley's fee.
It must be noted that Chancellor Strine's irritation was not just reserved for Goldman. He lambasted El Paso's chief, Mr. Foshee, for what he described as his "velvet glove negotiating strategy," which he said was "influenced by an improper motive" to enrich himself through the deal because he planned to later buy El Paso's exploration and production unit from Kinder Morgan.
Goldman's brazenness in this deal is nothing short of breathtaking. It is just another example of why Goldman's reputation has been dented as questions have circled about the firm's loyalty to its clients over itself. Other firms have conflicts, but rarely do you hear about them being so incestuous. A Morgan Stanley banker involved in the deal wrote in an e-mail at the time: "This is GS at its most shameless."
What's even more surprising about Goldman's role working for El Paso is that it came just six months after the firm issued a new set of guidelines by its "business standards committee." The firm had just agreed to a $550 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over allegations that it knowingly sold its clients financial instruments meant to fail. In the guidelines, the firm pledged that its most important principle is that "our clients' interests always come first."
In the case of El Paso, that's now debatable. The company on Monday delayed its shareholder vote on the deal for a few days, until Friday, to give its investors time to digest Mr. Strine's rebuke of the process.
In fairness to Goldman, the firm was completely upfront with El Paso about its conflict and the company chose to continue working with Goldman. (The firm, however, did not disclose the personal stock ownership in Kinder Morgan by its banker, Steve Daniel.) Perhaps that would have been disclosure enough several years ago. But in this environment, why would Goldman take the chance? After all, the firm's $4 billion investment in Kinder Morgan meant that it had much more on the line on the other side of the negotiating table. Compare that to a $20 million advisory fee.
In a statement, Goldman said, "We respect the judge's opinion but want to be clear that we stood by our client through this process, encouraging them to get independent views from another adviser. We were also transparent with El Paso about our relationship with Kinder Morgan and the related issues."
Even if Goldman had perfect Chinese walls, as the firm has said, it stretches the mind to believe that the conflict could truly be contained - or could be worth the trouble it has created.
"I am unwilling to view Goldman as exemplifying an Emersonian nonfoolishly inconsistent approach to greed, one that involves seeking lucre in a conflicted situation while simultaneously putting the chance for greater lucre out of its 'collective' mind," Chancellor Strine wrote. "At this stage, I cannot readily accept the notion that Goldman would not seek to maximize the value of its multibillion-dollar investment in Kinder Morgan at the expense of El Paso, but, at the same time, be so keen on obtaining an investment banking fee in the tens of millions."

        
El Paso Delays Vote on Kinder Morgan Deal by a Few Days
        
The Losers in the El Paso Corp. Opinion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MERGERS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); JUDGES (67%); LITIGATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Delaware Chancery Court; Douglas Foshee; El Paso; Goldman Sachs; Kinder Morgan; Leo E. Strine Jr.; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Morgan Stanley; Steve Daniel; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Strine, Leo E. Jr.; Conflicts of Interest; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; El Paso Corporation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Kinder Morgan Inc; El Paso Corporation|EP|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Kinder Morgan Inc|KMI|NYSE; DealBook Column; Energy; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); KINDER MORGAN INC (90%); EL PASO CORP (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: El Paso Corporation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Kinder Morgan Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); KMI (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (50%) El Paso Corporation; EP; NYSE; El Paso Corporation; EP; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; El Paso Corporation; EP; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Kinder Morgan Inc; KMI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS L FOSHEE (92%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (91%) Blankfein, Lloyd C; Strine, Leo E. Jr.

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



188 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Rick Santorum Isn't Crazy

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: Whatever one thinks of the Republican presidential candidate's views on church and state, his opinion is not beyond the pale. 

 BODY:
Media pundits have been beating up on Rick Santorum for saying that the assertion of an absolute separation of church and state makes him want to throw up, for attacking John F. Kennedy's pledge to be "a president whose religious views are his own private affair" and for declaring that "the idea that the church can have no influence in the operation of the state is absolutely antithetical to the objectives and visions of our country."
In response, commentators have advised Santorum to read the Constitution, urged him to become familiar with the pronouncements of James Madison and Thomas Jefferson and chastised him for "bashing the Constitution's mandate that there should be separation between church and state." 
Well, if that's the Constitution's mandate, I guess a number of Supreme Court justices and A-list legal academics have somehow missed the message. In Wallace v. Jaffree (1985), Justice William Rehnquist called the "wall of separation" a "metaphor based on bad history, a metaphor which has proved useless as a guide to judging" and "should be frankly and explicitly abandoned." Justice Potter Stewart frequently complained that decisions based on a doctrine of strict separation display a hostility to religion and threaten to establish a "religion of secularism." Stewart was fond of citing Justice William O. Douglas's pronouncement in Zorach v. Clauson (1952) that "We are a religious people whose institutions presuppose a supreme being." Similar sentiments have been expressed by Justices Warren E. Burger, Byron White, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.

On the academic side, the Stanford professor Michael McConnell (formerly a federal judge) insists that "religion is under no special disability in public life" ("Accommodation of Religion,"1985 Sup. Ct Rev. I). McConnell cites the "historical record" as evidence that "accommodations of religion in the years up to the framing of the First Amendment were frequent and well known, and no one took the position that they constituted an establishment of religion." He derides the separationist mandate as "the narrow ideological position of the secular elite," a position that "relegates the large majority of the American public to second-class citizenship" ("Accommodation of Religion: An Update," George Washington Law Review, 1992). 
McConnell is hardly unique in his views. Stephen Carter of Yale Law School, Douglas Laycock of the University of Virginia School of Law, Philip Hamburger of Columbia Law School, Michael Perry of Emory University School of Law, Frederick Mark Gedicks of Brigham Young's J. Reuben Clark Law School, Steven Smith of the law school at San Diego University, Jeff Powell of the Duke University Law School and the late Richard John Neuhaus, author of "The Naked Public Square," are just a few of the many who have argued that the wall of separation thesis is historically, morally and politically indefensible. (I neither join nor dissent from this argument; I merely point out how widespread and respectable it is.)
This of course does not mean that Rick Santorum is right; only that he is not a total outlier or a nutcase. His views, although perhaps less well expressed than they might have been, are well within the boundaries of a legal and political debate that has been going on for more than a century. 
On the one side, there is a line of cases stretching from Reynolds v. United States (1878) to Employment Division v. Smith (1990) that define the right of free exercise narrowly: while you are free to think and express whatever religious beliefs you like, if your beliefs lead to actions (like taking plural wives or ingesting peyote at a religious communion) that violate generally applicable laws, you are subject to criminal penalties. 
On the other side, there is a line of cases stretching from Sherbert v. Verner (1963) and Wisconsin v. Yoder (1972) to Hosanna-Tabor v. E.E.O.C. (2012) that extend free exercise protection to actions that flow from a sincere faith even if those same actions - like pulling your children out of school or discriminating on the basis of disability - would be disallowed were they performed for non-religious reasons by non-religious institutions. Religious obligations are trumped by law and public policy in one set of cases; law and public policy bend to religious obligations in the other. (It's like a Gershwin song: I say separation, you say accommodation, except that there's no chance of calling the whole thing off.)
The same critics who fault Santorum for espousing extreme views also fault him for tilting at windmills. No one, they say, is claiming that "faith is not allowed in the public square." Wrong again. There are legal philosophers who argue that persons of faith who enter the public square should check their doctrinal commitments at the door and not permit themselves even to think religious thoughts when considering questions of policy. Others are less severe, but still restrictive; they would allow persons of faith to have religious reasons for supporting a policy, but insist that before those reasons are offered publicly, they must be rephrased in a vocabulary accessible to everyone, that is, in a secular vocabulary. 
Still others favor a more expansive accommodationism: They would allow frankly religious arguments to be made in the public forum even by legislators, but would require that those who make them be able to justify their vote in secular terms if asked to do so. And at the most generous end of the spectrum, where Santorum lives (but hardly alone), we find the conviction that religious discourse is as good as any other (and better than most) as a resource for deciding matters of state and should be a fully enfranchised partner in the political process.
So while Santorum may have been ill advised to turn from the economy to social issues and unwise or tone-deaf in his choice of phrases ("makes me throw up" is not in the standard political lexicon), nothing he has said about the relationship between church and state is beyond the pale, and much of it is standard, if contested, fare in the courts and the law reviews.
And the beat goes on. Just last Friday, the Florida legislature sent to Gov. Rick Scott a bill that would allow students to offer "inspirational messages" at mandatory school gatherings. The phrase "inspirational messages" is supposed to inoculate the bill against the charge that it is just a way of getting prayer back in the schools. But of course opponents are already calling that a transparent pretext and their case is helped (and perhaps made) by Scott, who indicated that he is inclined to sign the bill because "I believe in Jesus Christ." ( You wonder where his advisers were.) 
The battle is already shaping up and when the issue is fully joined in the courts, as it no doubt will be, you can be sure that the arguments Rick Santorum has been pilloried for will be heard again in the land.

        
Theocracy and Its Discontents
        
Super Pac! Super Bad!
        
Schooling Santorum
        
David's Awesome Tie Story
        
A Widow's Wisdom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); HISTORY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUDGES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) church and state; Rick Santorum; Supreme Court; Stanley Fish

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); ANTONIN SCALIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



189 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: In Caucus States, a Chance for (Almost) Every Candidate

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The caucuses in Alaska, Idaho and North Dakota will help decide how the overall Super Tuesday scoreboard is reported and may seem more important in the rearview mirror. 

 BODY:
The states holding Republican caucuses on Tuesday have received little attention as compared with high-profile primary states like Ohio and Georgia. But the caucuses in Alaska, Idaho and North Dakota -- in addition to awarding 87 delegates -- will help decide how the overall Super Tuesday scoreboard is reported and may seem more important in the rear-view mirror. In 2008, Barack Obama's wins in the caucus states on Super Tuesday helped him to win more delegates from the evening, and turned what was initially perceived as a relatively poor performance for him into one that gave him some degree of momentum.
There hasn't been any polling done in the caucus states. So in lieu of polling-based forecasts, we instead consulted with experts in each state to get the lay of the land.
Alaska
Predicting a winner in Alaska is difficult -- in large part because turnout for the caucuses has traditionally been very low. Moreover, the state's Republican electorate is about evenly matched between Tea Party-aligned voters, including evangelicals and libertarians, and voters nearer the ideological middle who are more concerned about electability, said former State Representative Jay Ramras.
The Republican presidential campaigns have been mostly invisible in Alaska. None of the campaigns have advertised locally, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas is the only candidate to have visited the state personally. Mitt Romney sent one of his sons, Josh Romney. Rick Santorum has been calling in to Alaskan radio programs, and Newt Gingrich held a telephone town hall with Alaskan voters on energy, a critical issue in the state.
Alaska is generally divided into five regions. The Anchorage area, Southcentral, is home to more than half the state's population. It includes the Mat-Su Valley1 about 40 miles north of Anchorage. The Valley, a suburban bedroom community home to many evangelical Christians, is the most conservative region in the state and is likely to favor Mr. Santorum.
Mr. Paul is likely to do well in the Fairbanks region, the most libertarian area of Alaska, itself a fairly libertarian-minded state. Mr. Romney will probably do well in the comparatively moderate region around Juneau, the state capital. The last region in the state, the North Slope, is sparsely populated
Mr. Romney won the state's caucus in 2008 with 35 percent of the vote. Mike Huckabee won 22 percent, and Mr. Paul won 17 percent. Something similar could happen this year, with Mr. Santorum taking the place of Mr. Huckabee. Mr. Ramras, however, believes evangelical voters will turn out in droves and help Mr. Santorum to compete for the state. And Mr. Paul has considerably outperformed his 2008 benchmarks in most caucus states so far.
Idaho
The executive director of the Idaho Republican Party, Jonathan Parker, estimated that Mormon voters would make up about a third of caucus-goers on Tuesday. That would represent a significant advantage for Mr. Romney.
The Mormon population in Idaho is concentrated in the eastern half of the state, particularly in the farm and ranch-rich southeast. This is deeply conservative territory. In 1976, when Ronald Reagan challenged sitting Republican President Gerald Ford from the right, Reagan won more than 80 percent in a number of counties in Idaho's southeast.
Southwest Idaho is mostly Catholic and evangelical, while the northwestern panhandle is predominately Catholic and Protestant. These areas would seem fertile ground for Mr. Santorum, who is Catholic, but there are signs in other states that Mr. Santorum's appeal among fellow Catholics is less than rock-solid.
Most of Idaho's population is concentrated around Boise in Ada County. Canyon County, to the west, will also represent a large share of the vote.
The party establishment in Idaho is mostly behind Mr. Romney, especially at the top. Gov. C. L. Otter, Lt. Gov. Brad Little, Senator James Risch and Representative Mike Simpson have all backed Mr. Romney. Mr. Paul, and to a lesser extent Mr. Santorum, have each garnered some local support also.2
Idaho's large Mormon population makes Mr. Romney the favorite to win the state's 32 delegates. All the major candidates have campaigned in the state, but Mr. Romney is the only one to have broadcast advertisements, although it was a small buy. That said, because this is the first year that Idaho Republicans are holding a caucus without a primary, there is an element of unpredictability in the outcome.
North Dakota
North Dakota may be the most vulnerable of the three states for Mr. Romney, with both Mr. Paul and Mr. Santorum having a solid chance to defeat him.
The Paul campaign also has been organizing in North Dakota since November, longer than any other, according to Matt Becker, the communications director for the state Republican Party. More recently, the Romney and Santorum campaigns have appointed state directors.
The state's economy is among the healthiest in the nation, buoyed by the discovery of the Bakken Shale, an oil-rich deposit. Republican voters in the state, angered by the Environmental Protection Agency's efforts to regulate hydraulic fracking, may prove receptive to Mr. Paul's libertarian message.
If Mr. Santorum is less organized in the state, he has performed well in prairie regions so far, winning almost all the counties in the Minnesota caucuses (including all those bordering North Dakota) as well as almost all in eastern Colorado. 
Mr. Gingrich is the only candidate to not visit North Dakota, nor has his campaign had much of a presence in the state, Mr. Becker said. Instead, Mr. Gingrich has been repeatedly mentioning North Dakota while campaigning in other states. That's probably not good enough for North Dakota Republicans, Mr. Becker said.
1: Wasilla, Alaska, where Sarah Palin served as mayor, is in the Mat-Su Valley.
2: Mr. Gingrich has not announced any Idaho endorsements.

        
A Guide to Super Tuesday Possibilities
        
A Warning on the Accuracy of Primary Polls
        
In Washington Caucus, Expect the Unexpected
        
The Meaning of Michigan
        
Romney Poised for Big Win in Arizona

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (62%) caucus; primaries; Politics and Government; Primaries and Caucuses; Politics

PERSON: RON PAUL (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (95%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



190 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Romney in Ohio: Want College? Can't Afford It? Too bad.

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: What modern Republican austerity looks like. 

 BODY:
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio - The high school senior who stood up at Mitt Romney's town hall meeting here today was worried about how he and his family would pay for college, and wanted to hear what the candidate would do about rising college costs if elected. He didn't realize that Mr. Romney was about to use him to demonstrate his fiscal conservatism to the crowd.
The answer: nothing.
Mr. Romney was perfectly polite to the student. He didn't talk about the dangers of liberal indoctrination on college campuses, as Rick Santorum might have. But his warning was clear: shop around and get a good price, because you're on your own.

"It would be popular for me to stand up and say I'm going to give you government money to pay for your college, but I'm not going to promise that," he said, to sustained applause from the crowd at a high-tech metals assembly factory here. "Don't just go to one that has the highest price. Go to one that has a little lower price where you can get a good education. And hopefully you'll find that. And don't expect the government to forgive the debt that you take on."
There wasn't a word about the variety of government loan programs, which have made it possible for millions of students to get college degrees. There wasn't a word urging colleges to hold down tuition increases, as President Obama has been doing, or a suggestion that the student consider a work-study program.
And there wasn't a word about Pell Grants, in case the student's family had a low enough income to qualify. That may be because Mr. Romney supports the House Republican budget, which would cut Pell Grants by 25 percent or more at a time when they are needed more than ever.
Instead, the advice was pretty brutal: if you can't afford college, look around for a scholarship (good luck with that), try to graduate in less than four years, or join the military if you want a free education.
That's the face of modern Republican austerity. Don't talk about the value of higher education to the country's economic future, and don't bother to think about ways to make it more accessible to strapped families. Tell students not to take on more debt than they can afford, wish them well, and move on.
Of course, a few minutes later, in answer to another question, there was a classic Romney moment. He recalled that when he was governor of Massachusetts, he successfully pushed for a state program (known as the Adams scholarships) that gives four years' tuition at state universities and colleges for students in the top 25 percent in test scores and grades.
So there is a role for government in helping some students go to college? Perhaps everyone but good students are on their own? So much of the time, what Mr. Romney seems to mean depends on who he is trying to impress at a given moment.

        
The Aipac Primary
        
Michigan Seems Like a Dream to Me Now
        
Memo to Mitt Romney: We Get It. You're Rich.
        
The New Conservatism: Don't Bother With College
        
Romney's Tax Plan: Progressive, but Only by Republican Standards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); BUDGETS (76%) Higher education; Mitt Romney; Super Tuesday; Romney, Mitt; Pell Grants

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



191 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: A Granddaughter Returns to Pakistan

BYLINE: SEEMA JILANI


HIGHLIGHT: A doctor whose grandfather fled Pakistan in 1947 revisits a country on the brink of chaos, drowning in sectarian tensions and paranoia, its destiny relinquished to corrupt leaders. 

 BODY:
The last time I wandered the dust-laden streets of Karachi, in 2007, Benazir Bhutto was still alive, Pervez Musharraf was president, Imran Khan was more renowned for his cricket career and former lovers than for his politics, and Asif Ali Zardari was in intermittent self-imposed exile, desperately dodging corruption charges. Pakistanis were wildly paranoid about India, blamed their extremist undercurrents on Afghan refugees and were deeply suspicious of the United States. I returned for a visit late last year, and as soon as I set foot in the gritty city of Karachi again, I knew that everything had changed and nothing had changed.
I have visited Pakistan throughout the years and grew up hearing the gruesome tales of Partition. "Partition." What a flaccid name for the brutal revolution that claimed one million lives. I still have family whom I have never met because they sided with India. In 1947, my grandfather was one of millions of Muslims who left India in search of a more tolerant nation. Fearing for his life, he fled in the middle of the night and narrowly escaped the clutches of the Indian army on the treacherous journey to Pakistan. After five years of absence, I returned to the land of my heritage in December with hopes of understanding why my ancestors gambled everything for this country. I left confused, disheartened, ashamed of its government and deeply empathetic towards its beautiful people, who deserve better.
Between the corridors of Saddar, Karachi's old city, sunlit storefronts still flaunt glorious silks and chiffons, offering distractions from striking poverty on the street. Majestic facades of dilapidated colonial buildings transported me to a time when the British Raj occupied South Asia. The founding of Pakistan was supposed to birth a progressive state where Muslims like my grandparents would no longer be marginalized by India or exploited by the British Empire. Instead, Pakistanis are now subjugated by their own corrupt politicians, who not only pocket their "10 percent," but also pilfer their citizens' dignity. In its notoriously endemic paranoia, Pakistan has always seen the United States and India as the cause of its troubles. However, Conspiracy Theory Fatigue now wafts in the air and the dwindling middle class simply wants clean water, electricity and a chance to abandon their ghettos and pursue education.
Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani was recently indicted for failing to pursue a corruption case against Mr, Zardari, now the president. Elements of the Pakistani government remain so deeply committed to the protection of Mr. Zardari that there is little energy for much else. Public expenditure on education is approximately 2.7 percent of G.D.P. and has remained stagnant for several years. With illiteracy rates over 40 percent and an estimated poverty rateof nearly 50 percent, Pakistanis rightly hold their government responsible for their destitution.
In December, several busy streets in Karachi were shut down, forcing traffic to a halt for several hours and stranding people at the airport, just so Mr. Gilani could be driven across Karachi to visit Mr. Zardari. Public indignation was so great that a television station repeatedly ran aerial footage of Karachi's massive traffic jams next to footage of quiet, undisturbed London streets while the prime minister, David Cameron, traveled through his city. As the segment was shown in a local shop, the proprietor furiously declared, "This is why Pakistan is in the pitiful state it is in."
While the lackluster concrete fortifications of diplomats' homes in Islamabad do little to complement its natural beauty, Karachi remains a luscious visual gumbo. High society women don sexy designer fashions amid round-bellied street vendors inviting passers-by to try a samosa. Sophisticated Pakistanis who take pride in a culture rich with literature, art and intellectual discourse take exception to being lumped in with narrow-minded extremists. Theirs is the Pakistan of punk rock concerts, edgy fashion shows, transvestites' rights movements and, now, even an Oscar winner.
It is true, though -- more burqas sweep Pakistan's roads than before, reflecting the Salafi and Wahabi elements that have crept into Pakistan's tapestry. However, several women who recently began wearing niqab told me they did so because it offers cultural protection against violent crime and sexual harassment. In truth, burqas are but one slice of Pakistani society. A Pakistani television program recently showcased a prominent journalist, Maya Khan, searching for unmarried couples on dates. She interrogated them and even asked for marriage certificates. Public anger over the intrusive antics was widespread, and in a bold move showcasing Pakistan's progressive voices, Ms. Khan was fired.
The average Pakistani man is more interested in providing a healthy future for his children than in religious zealotry, yet all the government offers its citizens is apathy. Half-naked children bathing in sewage and cloaked in misery remain a relentless alarm clock on Pakistan's collective conscious. Almost 30 percent of Pakistani children under age 5 are underweight and 40 percent are growth stunted, yet Pakistan's per capita expenditure on healthis only $23, compared to the recommended$35 to $50. Pakistan has spent twice as much on defenseduring peacetime as it has on education and health care combined. 
During my visit to Bilquis Pediatric Cancer Hospital, the lack of equipment and ancillary staff was staggering. Bald children whose faces were mapped with grime-entrenched creases lay limp with frailty, sniffing back streams of snot. The physician on rounds had coincidentally treated a patient I had transferred from Afghanistan. Last year I volunteered as a physician treating children at Kabul hospitals. When Afghan children needed a higher level of care for cardiac surgery, critically illness or chemotherapy, we always transferred them to Pakistan. There were never any obstacles, such as funding or visas. The Pakistani government allowed Afghan children into the country without so much as a border-crossing fee. Still, despite President Hamid Karzai's repeated affirmations of brotherhood, the relationship remains speckled with suspicion on both sides, similar to Pakistan's ties with the United States.
The unremitting Western narrative of Pakistan is that of a "failed state." Neglected in that narrative is the fact that the American-led war on terror has resulted in approximately 30,000 Pakistani civilian casualties, the equivalent of a Sept. 11, 2001, every year. Last November, NATO forces inadvertently killed 24 Pakistani soldiers. United State drone strikes have killed 1,717 to 2,680 individuals from 2004 to present, with a 17 percent nonmilitant casualty rate since 2004, according to the New America Foundation. Then there was the "vaccination" program which, according to The Guardian,was set up to help gather intelligence on Osama bin Laden. Anger about the vaccine scheme caused officials from an aid agency, Save the Children, to evacuate the country for two weeks and fueled distrust of immunizations. In a region where nearly 1 in 10 children die before their fifth birthday -- the majority from diarrhea, pneumonia or vaccine-preventable diseases - this was a major public health setback.
Still, Pakistan must accept responsibility for paving its own tragic pathway. Not the United States, nor Afghanistan nor India assassinated Salman Taseer, a politician who took a brave stance against Pakistan's blasphemy laws. Nor were they responsible for the tragic bombing of Karachi's Marriot Hotel. Nor did they assassinate Benazir Bhutto. Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta recently announced that the United States would end its combat role in Afghanistan in 2013. The last time the United States left the Afghan army to its own devices was after the Soviets were defeated. Fast-forward a few decades and here we are, still embroiled in the region's turmoil. Pakistan, a nuclear state 170-million strong, brimming with ethnic divisions, unrelenting fraud, and vulnerable to the very jihadists it emboldens in its backyard, is enough to make one yearn for the issues of Afghanistan instead.
It is not, nor will it ever be home to me, yet Pakistan rivers its way through my veins. Memories of vibrant streets peppered with multi-hued buses swerving on lane-less highways are dear to me. Karachi pulsates with intricate labyrinths of bazaars interspersed with stunning, chic women decked out in the finest fashions. The air, laced with fragrant cardamom chai still haunts me. Karachi's real soul lies in its people - people who invite you to stay at their homes upon first introductions, shop owners who call to make sure you got home safely, people with a solid work ethic, who love celebrating life and love, famous for weddings that last for days. The Pakistan I reminisce about is one where the sun peeks through stately British colonial architecture, bathing the streets in amber and framing the dreams of yesteryear. 
My grandfather traversed monstrous terrain as a refugee in search of a principled country that accepted him. Instead, Pakistan is on the brink of chaos, drowning in sectarian tensions and paranoia, its destiny been relinquished to corrupt leaders. When my grandfather first moved to Pakistan at Partition, he was often unable to afford meals and wandered refugee camps in search of family. Though he later completed higher education and climbed the ranks of his profession, he claimed that, despite its horrific conditions, Pakistan still had promise and integrity. I doubt he would maintain that today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); REFUGEES (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); RELIGION (72%); ARMIES (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (64%); LITERACY RATES (61%) Taseer, Salman; Zardari, Asif Ali; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Poverty; Afghanistan; Pakistan; Af-Pak

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (73%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%) Taseer, Salman; Zardari, Asif Ali

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (94%) PAKISTAN (98%); INDIA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%) Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



192 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Strikes Populist Tone Before Ohioans Vote

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum accuses Mitt Romney of trying to buy the Ohio primary. 

 BODY:
MIAMISBURG, Ohio -- Rick Santorum cranked up his image as a populist fighter on Monday as he pleaded for votes the day before the primary in Ohio, considered a must-win state if he is to maintain his political viability.
Mr. Santorum cast himself as David going up against Goliath, a k a Mitt Romney, his chief rival for the Republican presidential nomination, who has piles of money, a cash-flush "super PAC" behind him and numerous endorsements from establishment figures.
"Money is not going to buy this election," Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, declared to several hundred people, including many students, crowded into the cafeteria of the Dayton Christian School here. "The best ideas and believing in the people is going to win the election."
Mr. Santorum's 42-minute speech was laced with more personal references than usual. He dispensed with the theme of economic freedom that he usually hammers away at and steered clear of the cultural issues that have recently landed him in hot water.
He also took a new tact of trying to convert what Mr. Romney, a former private equity executive and former governor of Massachusetts, portrays as his strength -- business acumen -- into a weakness.
Mr. Santorum essentially called Mr. Romney a Johnny-one-note for his focus on the economy, a potentially risky assertion in a state still climbing out of the recession. But, Mr. Santorum said, a president should be able to address the wide range of problems confronting the country, "not just how we're going to manage the economy better," he said rather dismissively.
"This country is more than just the economy," Mr. Santorum added, going on to mention his own credentials as someone who, having served on the Senate Armed Services Committee, has national security experience and who understands "the importance of communities and families."
As if to demonstrate his national security bona fides, Mr. Santorum spent some time discussing the Middle East. And he took President Obama to task for failing to acknowledge what is obvious to Mr. Santorum -- that Iran is developing nuclear weapons.
"I think we need a president who can grasp reality a little better," he declared to applause. 
But his chief message Monday morning was an appeal to those who believe in the underdog, including, apparently, those who are not making any money.
"I walked away from all of the jobs I had and all the money I had," Mr. Santorum told the crowd. "We're living basically, we're spending down our savings." He said last week that his house in Virginia had lost much of its value since the recession.
But, he said, the future of the country was worth fighting for.
He urged his listeners: "Look into the eyes of the candidates. Look into what the candidates overcome and what they offer to this country, not just what money they have. Where's their soul? Where's their conviction? Where's the fight?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (51%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Senate Committee on Armed Services; Pennsylvania; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate Committee on Armed Services

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



193 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Super Tuesday, State by State

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The closest that Americans get to a national presidential primary comes every four years when a large group of states hold their primaries and caucuses on the same day. 

 BODY:
The closest that Americans get to a national presidential primary comes every four years when a large group of states hold their primaries and caucuses on the same day.
It's called Super Tuesday, a phrase that dates back more than two decades. And it happens again tomorrow.
Ten states, stretching geographically more than 4,500 miles -- from Alaska to Massachusetts -- will hold Republican contests on Tuesday, giving the candidates a chance to accumulate delegates and prove their vote-getting abilities.
Historically speaking, Tuesday will not be the most "super." In 2008, nearly two dozen states or territories held primary contests to choose a presidential nominee. But with 437 delegates at stake in the contests, Tuesday's results could dramatically shape the direction of the campaign as it moves into the spring.
Here's a brief look at the 10 states:
OHIO: Perhaps the most important state is Ohio, where Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney are in a tight race. Its working class population and manufacturing economy make it a bellwether for how the Rust Belt might vote in the general election. And it will be a sign of whether Mr. Santorum's appeal is growing or fading.
GEORGIA: It's got more delegates -- 76 -- than any other Super Tuesday state. And it's a must-win for Newt Gingrich (he says so himself), who represented the state in Congress for years. The South is an important part of the Republican Party's winning coalition, and Mr. Gingrich is betting that Southerners will like his chances of beating President Obama. 
TENNESSEE: It could be part of a string of victories for Mr. Gingrich if he does well. But it also could be a place where Mr. Romney could prove that his appeal can reach into traditionally conservative communities. Unemployment in the state is almost 9 percent, making the economy a central issue.
ALASKA: Ron Paul actually flew to Alaska over the weekend, giving the state the kind of love it rarely gets during elections. A deeply red, conservative state, it's not much of a swing state in the general election. But Mr. Paul may see its rugged individualism as a plus in his hopes at winning a state on Tuesday.
MASSACHUSETTS: Mr. Obama is the basketball player, but this should be a slam-dunk for Mr. Romney. He served as governor in the state and remains well liked there. It's a state that leans liberal in the general election, and with Mr. Romney on the ballot, it has not been contested by his Republican rivals during the primary.
IDAHO: The state is holding caucuses -- not a primary -- on Tuesday, a fact that Mr. Paul's campaign thinks is in its favor. Mr. Paul came in second in the state in 2008, and is hoping to do better this year. Mr. Romney campaigned in the state last week, appearing before large crowds of supporters, and could also do well there.
NORTH DAKOTA: Like Idaho, North Dakota is not a state that gets much attention during the general election since it's considered a lock for the Republicans. But Mr. Romney's strategy of trying to win as many delegates as possible on Tuesday brought him to the state last week. In 2008, he won the state over Senator John McCain of Arizona. 
OKLAHOMA: Another state that Mr. Gingrich hopes to win, Oklahoma has plenty of delegates and a sizable conservative base. That could appeal to Mr. Santorum, who has said he might do well there. Mr. McCain won in 2008, but only after a strong challenge from Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas.
VERMONT: The Northeast knows Mr. Romney the best, and Vermont is no exception. Mr. Romney's campaign expects to do well there. (He didn't do well in 2008, but only because he had dropped out of the race by the time the primary came around.)
VIRGINIA: The ultimate swing state, Virginia might have been the marquee contest on Super Tuesday had Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich not failed to qualify for the ballot. Mr. Paul is campaigning, but polls suggest that Mr. Romney holds a commanding lead and could snag all of the state's delegates for himself.

        
Romney Makes Economic Pitch to Ohio Voters
        
Gingrich Looks Ahead to 'Super Tuesday'
        
Obama: More Rounds to Fight
        
The Early Word: How Super Was It?
        
Live Blogging the Republican Contests

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (93%); CAUCUSES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); BASKETBALL (64%) super tuesday; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Alaska; Georgia; Idaho; Massachusetts; Ohio; Oklahoma; Tennessee; Vermont; Virginia; Elections

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RON PAUL (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Georgia; Idaho; Massachusetts; Ohio; Oklahoma; Tennessee; Vermont; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



194 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: White House to Host Group of 8 Meeting at Camp David

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Administration officials and associates said the president in recent weeks began discussing the idea of a more intimate setting for the world leaders. 

 BODY:
President Obama has boasted for months about hosting the annual summit of the Group of 8 industrialized nations this May in his hometown of Chicago, but on Monday, the White House without explanation announced a shift to the secluded setting of the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland.
Administration officials and associates, speaking only on the condition of anonymity, said the president in recent weeks began discussing the idea of a more intimate setting for the world leaders -- both to ease their communications and to cut down on the security concerns and traffic tie-ups of a big-city summit. Also, several noted, Vladimir V. Putin, a harsh critic of the United States who returns to the presidency of Russia after his election on Sunday, will be among the attendees.
"To facilitate a free-flowing discussion with our close G-8 partners, the president is inviting his fellow G-8 leaders to Camp David on May 18 to 19 for the G-8 Summit, which will address a broad range of economic, political and security issues," the brief White House statement said. 
Still, the change of location was unusual given the months-long lead time that such events require for preparation. 
Administration officials and others denied that the prospect of the anti-globalization protests common to such gatherings was a factor in the decision to change locations. After the Group of 8 summit, the separate summit of 28 NATO countries and Russia will go on as planned in Chicago, where leaders will discuss the future of the Atlantic alliance and specifically the coalition's exit from Afghanistan by 2014 and the size and makeup of any residual force there.
After it was determined in December 2010 that the United States would host the Group of 8 and NATO summits, the Obama administration announced within months that Chicago would be the site. The idea was less Mr. Obama's than it was that of Rahm Emanuel, then the White House chief of staff and now the mayor of Chicago. 
In a statement, Mr. Emanuel emphasized that Chicago would still entertain the NATO heads of state. "We wish President Obama and the other leaders well at the G-8 meeting at Camp David and look forward to hosting the NATO summit in Chicago," he said in the statement. "Hosting the NATO summit (still) is a tremendous opportunity to showcase Chicago to the world and the world to Chicago."
The Group of 8, which includes France, Germany, Italy, Britain, Japan, Canada and Russia, is increasingly seen as a less-effective forum for deliberations on the global economy and security at a time when other nations - among them China, India and Brazil - have become global powers in their own right. That has given rise to an expanded Group of 20. While the NATO alliance was formed after World War II as a defense against military expansion by the former Soviet Union, Russia has had a role in the group since 1997; since 2002, it has been a partner in the NATO-Russia Council.
Last June, in announcing Chicago as the host city for the back-to-back summits, an administration official told reporters, "We felt it was important to explore options beyond Washington because often you have these things in the capital city." The Obama administration, the official added, wanted "to highlight other parts of America that represent the character of our people and that can make for interesting venues." 
Camp David is about an hour from Washington and open only to the president and people he invites there.

        
Obama Backs Student in Furor With Limbaugh on Birth Control
        
To Autoworkers, Obama Turns Up Oratory
        
Focus on Social Issues Could Shape Battle for Women
        
In January, Obama Campaign Spent Almost As Much As Romney's
        
Lawmakers Mixed on Obama Corporate Tax Overhaul

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WORLD WAR II (50%) barack obama; G-8; Obama, Barack; Putin, Vladimir V; United States Politics and Government; Group of Eight; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Chicago (Ill); Maryland; The 44th President; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (96%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%) Group of Eight; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%) Obama, Barack; Putin, Vladimir V

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (79%) Chicago (Ill); Maryland

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



195 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Faces Inquiry of Ex-Arm for Bribery

BYLINE: AMY CHOZICK


HIGHLIGHT: News Outdoor Russia, which was sold in July, is being investigated by the Justice Department for allegations it paid off Russian officials. 

 BODY:
As News Corporation seeks to contain a widening investigation into illegal information gathering at its British publishing unit, the company may face fresh allegations at another problematic subsidiary.
News Outdoor Russia, a Moscow-based billboard company that News Corporation sold to a Kremlin-controlled bank in July, is the subject of an F.B.I. inquiry into whether the company bribed local officials to approve favorable sign placements, The Wall Street Journalreported Monday.
The investigation comes as News Corporation faces allegations of widespread bribery involving "a network of corrupted officials" at its British tabloid The Sun. The alleged bribery by reporters in Britain and accusations that News Outdoor Russia paid municipal officials could both bring into play the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a law that prohibits overseas arms of United States companies from paying bribes.
In its investigation, the F.B.I. will seek to determine whether bribery at News Corporation's British publishing arm, News International, and allegations of bribery at its Russian outdoor advertising subsidiary were isolated events or indicative of a broader corrupt corporate culture. If it is the latter, News Corporation could face hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and legal fees and criminal charges, according to people close to the company who were not authorized to comment on the record about a continuing investigation.
"The challenge for companies subject to the F.C.P.A. is that acts at one subsidiary can pose risks to the overall enterprise, depending on how many people are involved and how large the scale," said William P. Barry, a Washington lawyer who specializes in white-collar criminal defense with an emphasis on the corrupt practices act.
In July, News Corporation retained Mark Mendelsohn, a Washington lawyer who previously worked in the Justice Department's fraud division prosecuting corporations and executives accused of violating the act.
A spokeswoman for News Corporation declined to comment.
Russian officials have historically been uncooperative with foreign officials investigating corruption, often seen as a price for doing business in Russia. Still, some cases have progressed.
In 2010, the Justice Department revealed documents that showed that the German automaker Daimler, which had been merged with Chrysler, had bribed Russian officials to secure a deal to sell cars for its police fleet and official motorcades. The company settled the charges in Federal District Court in Washington and paid $185 million.
News Corporation acquired News Outdoor Russia from a group of Russian businessmen in 2000. Rupert Murdoch, chairman and chief executive of News Corporation, said the company provided a foothold in the booming economy in Russia, where outdoor advertising is splattered on buildings, billboards and bus stops.
The Moscow-based company also controls outdoor signage in the Czech Republic, Ukraine and Romania, but Russia represents by far the largest market, with the company managing more than 40,000 outdoor ads in 90 cities, according to the News Outdoor Web site.
According to the Russian press, News Outdoor Russia often provided on a pro bono basis billboards for images of Vladimir V. Putin, who claimed victory in Russia's presidential elections over the weekend.
In 2002, Maxim Tkachev, managing director of News Outdoor, survived a shooting outside his Moscow office. Not long after that attack, a gunman in a black ski mask shot and killed Vladimir Kanevsky, a Russian billboard mogul and head of the outdoor advertising agency Big Board Group, a main competitor of News Outdoor.
According to the report in The Journal, which is a News Corporation publication, the F.B.I. is also investigating the killing of Mr. Kanevsky and looking into whether it was related to corruption at News Outdoor.
A spokeswoman for News Outdoor Russia told The Journal that the company was an "investment project for News Corporation" and that the New York-based media conglomerate "didn't participate in the operations of the company."
News Corporation sold its 79 percent stake in News Outdoor Russia for $270 million, well below its estimated value of $1.65 billion in 2008. In a Financial Times interview in 2008, Mr. Murdoch said he wanted to sell the unit before it was "stolen."
An earlier version of this post misstated, in one reference, News Outdoor Russia's law enforcement situation. It faces an inquiry into bribery allegations; it has not been found to have offered bribes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%) News Corporation; News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%) News Corporation

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); CZECH REPUBLIC (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



196 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Share Prices Dip Again As China Cuts Its Forecast

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Monday for the second straight session and the third in the last four trading days, led by a drop in share prices for basic materials after China trimmed its 2012 prediction for economic growth.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index opened lower. Data showing that the services sector of the nation's economy expanded in February at its fastest rate in a year did little to stem the decline.
The benchmark S.& P. 500 is up 8.5 percent so far this year as investor anticipate a recovery in the United States economy, a containment of the euro zone's debt crisis and the belief that China will avoid a hard landing in its current economic growth cycle. 
China, the world's second-largest economy, lowered its 2012 growth prediction to an eight-year low of 7.5 percent and made expanding demand by Chinese consumers its top priority. That way, the Chinese government hopes, it can shrink the economy's reliance on external spending and foreign capital.
''That spooked everybody this morning. It started over in Asia, flowed right to Europe and flowed right over here,'' said Kenneth Polcari, managing director at ICAP Equities in New York.
''The fact is, they are guiding a little bit lower to control their inflation. It is not necessarily the end of the world, but it gave people a reason to take some money off the table,'' he said.
Shares of materials, which are sensitive to signs of slowing in China's commodity-hungry economy, dropped and were the biggest drag on Wall Street. The S.& P. materials sector index fell 1.6 percent, with Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold off 3.8 percent at $40.45.
The S.& P. 500-stock index dipped 5.30 points, or 0.39 percent, to 1,364.33. The Dow Jones industrial average shed 14.76 points, or 0.11 percent, to 12,962.81. The Nasdaq composite index lost 25.71 points, or 0.86 percent, to close at 2,950.48.
The Institute for Supply Management said its services index rose to 57.3 in February from 56.8 in January. Economists expected a drop to 56.1.
It was the index's highest level since February 2011. The services sector accounts for about two-thirds of economic activity in the United States. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
In another report, the Commerce Department said orders for manufactured goods fell 1 percent, not as big as the 1.5 percent drop that economists were expecting. Still, it was the biggest decline since October 2010.
The Nasdaq registered the biggest decline among the three major stock indexes as Apple dropped as much as 3.5 percent to a session low at $526 share on heavy volume. By the close, Apple had recouped some of that loss, closing down 2.2 percent at $533.16. ''There is talk about iPad sales slowing down and all that,'' Mr. Polcari said. Sales, he added, have gone straight up with no correction, ''so any whiff of the slightest miss or negative news is going to take money right out of it, and that's what you saw today,'' he said.
The S.& P. technology sector index lost 1 percent.
In another deal weighing on investor sentiment Monday, Greece warned it was ready to enforce losses on its private sector creditors, although major Greek bondholders later voiced their support for the deal.
Steel makers in the United States were also hurt by the news from China. AK Steel fell 6.1 percent, to $7.29; United States Steel dropped 4.7 percent, to $26.21; and Nucor slipped 2.4 percent, to $42.52.
Interest rates were higher on Monday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 8/32, to 99 30/32, and the yield rose to 2.01 percent from 1.96 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); EURO CRISIS (69%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (65%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (65%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (65%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (65%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (65%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (65%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (65%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (65%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (65%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



197 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Hunger Pangs As Nation's Pie Shrinks

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE AGE OF AUSTERITY
How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics
By Thomas Byrne Edsall
Illustrated. 256 pages. Doubleday. $24.95.
Things are bad and unlikely to get better any time soon.
So says the political analyst Thomas Byrne Edsall in his lumpy new book, ''The Age of Austerity.'' The book suggests that the venomous partisanship oozing through Washington and the rest of the country today; the gridlocked Congress's inability to deal with the nation's problems; mounting deficits; two costly wars; and continuing economic fallout from the crash of 2008 are all knit together in one noxious dynamic.
The ''optimism underpinning our politics and our social policy depends on the conviction that success in this country is not zero-sum,'' Mr. Edsall writes. It's not just that the promises of the American Dream have been predicated on the idea of growth: the expanding Western frontier in earlier times and more recently the post-World War II economic boom.
It's also, he says, that compromises between left and right, between ''one political party promoting a social safety net and the other party asserting that hard-earned tax dollars unjustly finance those benefits,'' have required an expanding economy: a growing pie that could be divvied up through deals and negotiation. 
All that has now changed, Mr. Edsall argues. With a ballooning deficit, aging baby boomers (who will inflate the costs of Social Security and Medicare) and stubborn unemployment (due not just to the recession but also to the migration of jobs abroad and new corporate efficiencies), he says, America has ''entered a period of austerity markedly different from anything we have seen before.''
With it, he contends, ''a brutish future stands before us,'' with Republicans and Democrats ''enmeshed in a death struggle to protect the benefits and goods that flow to their respective bases'' -- a ''dog-eat-dog political competition over diminishing resources.''
Certainly this book makes for timely reading, given the acrimonious partisanship that has animated the 2012 campaign and the shrinking political center in Congress, exemplified by last week's announcement by Olympia Snowe, Republican of Maine, that she plans to retire from the Senate, having become frustrated with the growing partisanship of that chamber.
In the volume's opening chapters Mr. Edsall does a provocative job of explicating his grim Darwinian thesis, using his chops as a political reporter (he spent 25 years covering politics for The Washington Post and is currently writing an online column on the 2012 election for The New York Times) to put these developments in historical perspective and to assess how they might affect this year's elections.
He writes that ''conditions of scarcity work to the advantage of conservatives, undermining the willingness of voters to sacrifice -- pay higher taxes -- for the less fortunate,'' and adds that the Republican Party has demonstrated ''a willingness to go for the kill'' and ''a facility in deploying wedge issues.''
Over the long term, however, Mr. Edsall contends that the G.O.P. tends to overestimate ''ideological support from the general public.'' Though it has won elections for four decades ''by mobilizing white voters, especially white married Christians,'' he says, this base is ''steadily eroding, while Democratic voting blocs -- Hispanics, African-Americans, other minorities, and single women -- are expanding as a share of the electorate.''
Because of these changing demographics, he adds, Republican leaders ''see the window closing on the opportunity to dismantle the liberal state.'' The 2012 election is therefore ''positioned to be the most ideologically consequential contest since 1932,'' fought over the size and scope of government and the allotment of diminishing resources.
From the moment President Obama took office, Mr. Edsall writes, ''Republicans have deliberately engaged this conflict'' over a smaller pie, ''determined to protect the interests of their more middle-class and affluent constituencies''; the 2010 midterms produced a sharp shift to the right, particularly among the elderly.
''These voters,'' he argues, ''saw Obama's trillion-dollar health care reform legislation, which included a massive $506 billion cut in Medicare over 10 years, as a threat to both Social Security and Medicare. In 2009 and 2010 the administration and the Democratic Congress were seen as transferring scarce tax dollars away from seniors to a younger, poorer, disproportionately minority electorate, not only through expanded health care but also through the billions spent on extensions of long-term unemployment insurance -- which shot up from $35.1 billion in 2007'' to $160.1 billion in 2010.
This sort of data-driven analysis of the two main political parties will be familiar to readers of Mr. Edsall's 1991 volume, ''Chain Reaction: The Impact of Race, Rights, and Taxes on American Politics'' (written with his wife, Mary D. Edsall), and his 2006 ''Building Red America'' -- books that turned out to have seriously underestimated Democratic prospects, when Bill Clinton and later Barack Obama captured the White House.
Like those earlier works, ''The Age of Austerity'' tends to make gross generalizations about the parties while glossing over divisions within the G.O.P. (between the Tea Party and establishment Republicans, between libertarians and evangelicals) and within the Democratic alliance (between left-wing types and more moderate ones).
For that matter, Mr. Edsall tends, in these pages, to depict those two parties in highly stereotyped terms. He characterizes Republicans as ''budget hawks'' who are ''willing to inflict harm'' on the disadvantaged, and Democrats as ''redistributionists'' who reflect the interests of ''relatively government-dependent populations'' seeking ''protection from unrestrained free markets and from majoritarian sociocultural norms.''
In one chapter he even mentions a study that associates Democrats with feminine traits (adjectives like ''compassionate,'' ''soft'' and ''egalitarian'') and Republicans with masculine ones (''decisive,'' ''tough,'' ''muscular'').
At the same time, Mr. Edsall plays down growing calls for bipartisanship and pragmatic problem solving from both individuals and groups like No Labels, Third Way and Americans Elect. A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in January showed that 85 percent of Americans said they thought Republicans and Democrats should compromise on some of their positions in order to get things done, and that 38 percent described themselves as ''moderates.''
In fact, ''The Age of Austerity'' is at its strongest when Mr. Edsall refrains from making overly broad generalizations, or at least illustrates his hypotheses with persuasive evidence. For instance, in arguing that prosperity tends to encourage a spirit of generosity, while hard times do the opposite, Mr. Edsall uses Arizona as a case study.
In the early and mid-2000s, he says, growth fueled support for expansive state programs like an extension of Medicaid coverage. But with the collapse of the housing bubble and an unemployment rate that tripled from April 2007 to July 2010, he goes on, the Republican governor and Republican state legislature cut programs for the poor, ''most infamously the removal of 310,000 adults from Medicaid and the termination of Kids Care, a health care program for 47,000 low-income children.''
Austerity, Mr. Edsall argues, not only makes ''middle-class voters want to preserve and protect what they have,'' but also goads them to regard ''needy constituencies'' as ''a drain, a burden, a cost.''
As Mr. Edsall sees it, clashing left and right austerity strategies will shape the 2012 election, but that election is unlikely to resolve anything because ''incentives to sustain partisan warfare far outweigh the rewards of bipartisan cooperation.'' Both parties ''found that fear and anger are the best motivators to boost voter turnout,'' he depressingly concludes, adding that in the future the debt crisis is likely to emerge ''as an immediate danger toward the end of the decade in 2018-20, when health care and other social insurance costs begin to once more balloon.''
''For a politician,'' he adds, ''an event six or eight years away is so far into the future that it does not warrant attention.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 Thomas Byrne Edsall(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); AGING (64%); MEDICARE (64%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Age of Austerity, The: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



198 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: A Lifeline Built On Shifting Sands

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
RODANTHE, N.C. -- Last August, when Hurricane Irene sliced across the Outer Banks, it cut Highway 12, Hatteras Island's lifeline, in two places. Engineers rushed to repair the damage, filling and repaving a washed-out stretch of roadway here and building a bridge over a newly formed inlet a few miles to the north.
The road reopened on Oct. 11, to the cheers of anglers, would-be vacationers and the innkeepers, restaurateurs and merchants whose livelihoods had taken a huge blow.
But the winds and waves that shape the coast were already gnawing at the new bridge. By January, engineers were reinforcing its southern approach with sandbags and rock trucked in from the mainland, in hopes of keeping the road open until a more permanent fix could be designed and built. 
The Outer Banks are home to some of the nation's most celebrated beach communities. The road that links them, also called N.C. 12, offers an extreme example of the difficulty of maintaining houses, condos, roads and other infrastructure in the face of a climate-driven rise in sea level.
By some estimates, at least 70 percent of the ocean coastline of the lower 48 states is threatened by erosion. But the outlook here is unusually gloomy. In 2009, a federal report on erosion in the Middle Atlantic states predicted that if the sea level rises two feet this century -- an estimate that many experts call optimistic -- ''it is likely that some barrier islands in this region will cross a threshold'' and begin to break up. The report, produced by the Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Geological Survey and other agencies, said the Outer Banks were particularly threatened.
Already, Highway 12 floods repeatedly and is often cut by storms. Maintaining it ''is totally a lost cause,'' said Stanley R. Riggs, a coastal scientist at East Carolina University who is an author of a new book, ''The Battle for North Carolina's Coast,'' which describes in depressing detail the difficulties of keeping the road open. ''It will bankrupt the state,'' he said.
But people who live and work on the Outer Banks say abandoning the road would make life impossible.
''You would see people with nothing left,'' said Eddie Williams, who was born and raised on Hatteras Island. He manages the Paint Box, a gift shop in the village of Hatteras. ''It would be devastating,'' he said.
Beth Smyre, an engineer for the State Department of Transportation who is leading the planning effort, acknowledged the pessimism coastal geologists bring to the issue. ''We try to take into account all these different opinions,'' she said. But she added: ''There are people living out there, there are tourists visiting out there. We have to provide a reliable and safe transportation system out there.''
According to a 2011 state report, coastal tourism brought $2.6 billion to the state's economy in 2009, supporting 50,000 jobs.
''We have an obligation to keep this access in place,'' Jerry Jennings, a district engineer with the transportation department who had overall charge of the road repairs, said in October, as he watched crews put the finishing touches on the $11 million-plus repair projects he described as temporary fixes.
He added, ''Our employees, fortunately or unfortunately, have a lot of experience dealing with Highway 12.''
Irene's attack on Highway 12 came as North Carolina was already confronting a number of issues relating to the fate of the Outer Banks.
Last summer, the state confronted what engineers called ''advanced deterioration'' of the Herbert C. Bonner Bridge, which carries the highway from Nags Head to the Pea Island National Wildlife Refuge, on the north end of Hatteras Island.
Some geologists suggested replacing the bridge with a system of ferries from the mainland. Others suggested maintaining a road link with a causeway or ''long bridge,'' looping into Pamlico Sound, an idea that the federal Fish and Wildlife Service endorsed as the best long-term option.
The state opted for a replacement bridge that will run right alongside the existing span; planning is under way.
Robert S. Young, a coastal geologist who is head of the Program for the Study of Developed Shorelines at Western Carolina University, calls the project ''our own little bridge to nowhere.''
''They can engineer that bridge so well that it can withstand a Category 3 or 4 hurricane,'' Dr. Young said in a telephone interview. ''The barrier island it is connected to cannot.''
North Carolina has long been a leader in coastal protection through its ban on coastal armor -- like seawalls and revetments -- which, while it may protect a particular house or condo, almost inevitably degrades or even destroys sandy beaches. But last summer the State Legislature voted to loosen that prohibition, allowing owners of threatened buildings to protect them with ''terminal groins,'' structures built out into the surf to trap sand.
Dr. Young said he feared that the move was the beginning of the end for the armor ban. Meanwhile, he is among the coastal scientists who have been recruited to help assess beach damage caused by the groins, a prospect he said was ''just so depressing.''
Efforts continue to maintain beaches by dredging up sand and pumping it onshore, a chronic activity on the Banks and elsewhere on the coast. When Irene struck, a project was under way in Nags Head, where houses routinely end up in the surf when a storm passes. As expected, Irene washed some of the new sand away.
Barrier islands like the Outer Banks are inherently unstable. Waves typically strike these islands at a slight angle, creating currents that pick up sand and carry it along the coast. The wave energy along the Outer Banks is unusually strong; by some estimates 700,000 cubic yards of sand, enough to fill 70,000 average-size dump trucks, moves along that stretch of coast every year.
At the new bridge, evidence of this process appeared even on opening day, in the form of long-necked black water birds called cormorants perching on a spit of sand that had formed near the north side of the bridge. That spit had not been there a few days before, said Pablo Hernandez, the transportation department engineer who managed the bridge work.
''It's very difficult,'' he said. ''This whole thing has been constantly moving and shifting.''
As he spoke, waves were already starting to cut sharply into the sand at the bridge's southern flank, an area the engineers later reinforced. In nature, barrier islands respond to rising seas by gradually moving inland. They erode on the ocean side but expand on the bay side, as storms wash sand across them or as inlets form and the current carries sand toward the bay.
Since the middle of the 20th century, though, people here have done a lot to thwart this process.
During the Depression, the Civilian Conservation Corps built an artificial dune that survives today along much of the length of the Banks, blocking the overwash of sand. When the islands do wash over, leaving Highway 12 covered in sand, people bulldoze the sand back to the beach. When inlets form, they fill them.
The results have been predictable: Eroding on the ocean side and unable to move inland, Hatteras Island has narrowed. ''Every year and every storm, the vulnerability just increases,'' Dr. Young said.
Andrew S. Coburn, associate director of the shoreline program at Western Carolina University, noted in an interview that Irene was barely hurricane strength when it struck the Banks. ''It was a pretty weak storm, but that's not discussed,'' he said. ''You don't hear that. Nobody talks about the fact.''
A weak storm -- or even an unusually high tide -- can cause big trouble for Hatteras Island, where Highway 12 is a two-lane road usually only a few feet above sea level. The reconstruction job in Rodanthe (pronounced roe-DAN-thee) is the second here in two years; a stretch was similarly repaired in 2009 when surging waves stranded oceanfront houses in the surf, including the house featured in the movie ''Nights in Rodanthe.'' The house was moved.
The state has moved the highway itself four times since the 1950s, said Dr. Riggs of East Carolina University. His book offers a ''minimal estimate'' of $93 million for the cost of maintaining it since 1983, a figure that does not include the new work.
Replacing the Bonner Bridge will leave the state ''locked into trying to protect that highway for 60 to 70 miles,'' he said. ''They cannot do that. It will not last.''
The inlet spanned by the new bridge is not the first at that site. And in 2003, Hurricane Isabel cut still another inlet across the southern end of Hatteras Island; the Army Corps of Engineers filled that one.
In the coming decades, Dr. Riggs predicted, major storms will turn many parts of the Banks into underwater shoals or flats that are above water only at low tide. If Highway 12 were abandoned and the islands allowed to find their natural equilibrium, he writes, the resulting villages would be ''situated like a string of pearls on a vast network of inlet and shoal environments.''
They could be reached by ferries, as are two other islands on the Banks, Ocracoke and Bald Head.
Dr. Young noted that until Bonner Bridge opened in the 1960s, all travel to Hatteras Island was by boat. ''Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket, Block Island, Puget Sound -- people love to ride the ferry,'' he said.
Not everyone agrees. NC-20, an organization of public officials and businesspeople from 20 waterfront counties, acknowledges that sea level has risen about 7 inches in the last 100 years, but rejects the idea that the situation is worsening. And it says that altering road or other infrastructure plans would be ''unscientific'' and ''portends financial disaster.''
In 2010, however, a panel of experts convened by the North Carolina Coastal Resources Commission concluded that a sea level rise of about three feet is likely and should be ''adopted as the amount of anticipated rise by 2100, for policy development and planning purposes.''
But people do not like to hear that message, especially after a storm, said Mr. Coburn, also a ferry advocate. ''Are we at the point where we cannot sustain it? With Highway 12, I don't think we are there yet. But there will come a day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BESIEGED: Waves hit a new bridge on Highway 12 at Pea Island, N.C., over an inlet created by Hurricane Irene. Critics say officials should adopt a ferry system instead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION)(D1)
WEAK POINT: An inlet cut by Hurricane Irene, later reinforced with rock.
RODANTHE: The hurricane left some houses cut off from the main road. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CORNELIA DEAN)(D4) MAPS (Sources: U.S. National Park Service
 N.C. Dept. of Transportation)(D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (88%); HURRICANES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); EROSION (78%); BEACHES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); SPORT FISHING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (65%); WRITERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



199 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: After Ratings Drop, Ford Reworks Touch Screens

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- The Ford Motor Company began adding touch-screen control systems to some of its most popular models two years ago as a way to stand out from the rest of the industry and draw in new customers.
But after many buyers grew frustrated with flaws in the system, known as MyFord Touch and developed with Microsoft, Ford's quality ratings plunged and a feature meant to increase loyalty instead damaged perceptions of the company. 
MyFord Touch replaces many of the traditional knobs and buttons in a vehicle with touch screens, steering wheel-mounted controls and spoken commands.
''I think they were too willing to rush something out because of the flashiness of it rather than the functionality,'' said Michael Hiner, a former stock-car racing crew chief in Akron, Ohio, who bought a Ford Edge Limited last year largely because he and his wife were intrigued by MyFord Touch.
Now Ford has issued a major upgrade that redesigns much of what customers see on the screen and tries to resolve complaints about the system crashing or rebooting while the vehicle is being driven. Ford said on Monday that the upgrade made the touch screens respond to commands more quickly, improved voice recognition capabilities and simplified a design that some say had the potential to create more distractions for drivers who tried to use it on the road. Fonts and buttons on the screen have been enlarged, and the layouts of more than 1,000 screens have been revamped.
''We expect that these improvements will put us back on track in the quality ratings,'' said Derrick Kuzak, Ford's group vice president for global product development. ''It's more than just an update. This is a substantial upgrade.''
Ford is taking the unusual step of sending the upgrade directly to customers, who can install the new software in about an hour by plugging in a USB flash drive.
Dealers, which can perform the procedure if customers prefer, received the upgrade kits Monday, and the more than 300,000 customers with MyFord Touch in their vehicles can expect their USB drive in the mail later this week, Ford said.
Irritation with MyFord Touch was cited last week by Consumer Reports as a big reason that Ford fell to 10th place on this year's Automaker Report Card, from fifth in 2011. Ford dropped 10 places in the publication's predicted reliability survey last year and plummeted to 23rd place, from fifth, in the most recent initial quality survey by J. D. Power & Associates. Both surveys showed poor scores for models with MyFord Touch.
David Champion, the senior director of auto testing for Consumer Reports, said improving the software should resolve some customer issues, but he said he believed a touch screen would always be harder for drivers to use than traditional knobs and switches, even if it looked more exciting to shoppers.
''It's an idea that I don't think really belongs in a car to a certain extent,'' Mr. Champion said. ''It is a very complex system that they've put in, that works great if you're in a showroom and not having to look where you're going.''
Ford has been among the industry's leaders in introducing communication and entertainment technology in recent years. Rivals like General Motors, Chrysler and Toyota have been adding similar features, though they are generally less complex and have not generated as much negative feedback.
Ford's system incorporates the car's climate controls, hands-free communication, navigation and entertainment into one screen on the console and has another customizable display where the speedometer and other gauges are usually located.
Ford insists it is committed to the touch-screen approach and that customers love it, aside from the issues targeted by the new upgrade. It said MyFord Touch and its underlying software, known as Ford Sync, were an important part of the purchase decision for 56 percent of Ford buyers and that 77 percent of owners now used voice commands to control their vehicle's audio and information system.
Roughly four out of every five people who have bought a 2012 Ford Explorer or Edge chose one with MyFord Touch, which is available only on configurations that cost at least $5,000 more than the base model.
The basic version of Ford Sync, which was introduced in 2007 and does not use a touch screen, costs $295 and now comes standard on some models.
MyFord Touch is included in nearly 10 percent of the vehicles Ford has sold in the United States since introducing the system in late 2010. It is currently available on the Edge, Explorer and Focus and on the Lincoln MKX as MyLincoln Touch.
Mr. Hiner, the Edge buyer, said he had always driven and been involved with racing General Motors products, and his wife was loyal to Toyota. The couple considered a Toyota Highlander sport utility vehicle but settled on the Edge because of MyFord Touch. ''It was the deciding factor in us buying that over the Highlander,'' he said. ''We just felt like the Edge offered more.''
But a year later, Mr. Hiner, now a stay-at-home father, has run out of patience with MyFord Touch, having taken the car repeatedly to his dealership for help, to no avail. He said the navigation system often malfunctioned, the rearview camera frequently stayed on while the vehicle was moving forward and the system randomly rebooted. The voice controls typically do not work until the vehicle has been on for five to 10 minutes, meaning short trips require dialing phone calls by hand, only to have the call cut off when the system finally starts up, he said.
Ford officials say they have listened to customer feedback in developing the upgrade, a process that started as soon as the system was introduced.
Graydon Reitz, Ford's director for global electronics and electrical systems engineering, said the new software eliminated error messages and was now usually able to fix problems on its own when they occurred.
Another change moves the switch for controlling the heated seats onto the home screen. Previously, a driver had to press the screen several times to reach the correct menu option.
To ensure both the software and the upgrade process work as expected, Ford had 1,700 employees and dealers try it out for three months to collect feedback.
Ford is adding MyFord Touch as an option to seven more models this year. In doing so, it addressed another common problem that current owners cannot fix with new software: a touch-sensitive area under the touch screen that activates the hazard lights has been replaced with a mechanical button, because Ford learned that drivers were inadvertently turning on the hazard lights as they rested their hand while waiting for the system to respond.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ford has upgraded the software for its MyFord Touch control system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); VOICE RECOGNITION (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (70%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); AUTO RACING (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); FLOPPY DRIVES (61%); FLASH DRIVES (61%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



200 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Scandals in Hong Kong Raise Fears About China

BYLINE: By KEVIN DREW; Apple Lam contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A string of scandals involving both the current leader of Hong Kong and those vying to succeed him is threatening to stain what many residents here consider a source of pride: a city largely free of corruption.
The accusations confronting Donald Tsang, the chief executive of Hong Kong, and two of the candidates underscore deep-seated fears that a small circle of tycoons has come to dominate the top levels of government almost 15 years after this former British colony reverted to Chinese rule. Many worry that the city's tradition of transparent rule of law may be giving way to how business and politics are conducted in mainland China. 
''This may be the accepted practice in China, but it's not permitted in Hong Kong,'' Fung Chi-wood, an Anglican pastor and former legislator, said of local news reports that Mr. Tsang accepted favors like rides on yachts and jets and negotiated a below-market rate for a luxury apartment from wealthy businessmen. Mr. Fung was among thousands of people who demonstrated last weekend against the influence of the rich in local government. ''We are afraid our standards are becoming lower,'' he said.
The scandals also point to what analysts say is the driving issue in the March 25 election: Hong Kong's relationship with the mainland. Residents are asking whether the integration that has taken place since 1997, making the city more prosperous than before, may also be diminishing the territory's quality of life.
Tensions between Hong Kong residents and visitors from the mainland are feeding tabloid headlines and social media, and more people are taking to the streets to protest a widening wealth gap.
In the background is a nagging worry that a direct election of the chief executive, long promised for Hong Kong, will never arrive. The chief executive is chosen not by direct votes of residents but by a committee, most of whose 1,200 members represent interests like financial services and tourism.
''The people fear that Hong Kong will become just another Chinese city,'' said Hung Ho-fung, a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. ''Few things scare Hong Kong residents as much as that.''
Certainly, Hong Kong and mainland China have become closer since the end of British rule. The proportion of ethnic Chinese has inched up, the number of mainland students enrolled in Hong Kong universities has increased and Mandarin has overtaken English as the second most spoken language. Cantonese remains in first place.
By several international measures, Hong Kong remains a model. Its mass transit system is held up as an example of smart urban planning. Teenagers' academic scores compare favorably with those of students elsewhere, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In the World Competitiveness Yearbook, a ranking using criteria like economic performance, efficiency and corruption, Hong Kong and the United States are tied for first place.
But some analysts see troubling signs in the closeness to the mainland, with the International Federation of Journalists saying that the local news media came under unprecedented attack by the authorities last year.
''In the second half of 2011, journalists in Hong Kong experienced the biggest restriction from the local government since the 1997 handover,'' the group said in a report, citing cases of journalists being detained and arrested.
The candidates most widely expected to become the next chief executive, Henry Tang and C.Y. Leung, are considered acceptable choices by Beijing. Still, Mr. Tang has admitted to building a vast, unlicensed basement. Local news media reported it was to contain features like a wine cellar and a Japanese-style bath, though Mr. Tang insists it was for storage. And Mr. Leung faces conflict-of-interest accusations for his involvement in the development of a cultural arts complex being built in Hong Kong.
But traditional corruption, like payoffs to the police or government officials, is relatively low in Hong Kong, on par with Western governments, said David Webb, who runs a Web site that tracks corruption. Instead, he said, a ''structural collusion'' exists in Hong Kong because of the system of choosing the chief executive. The election committee is heavily weighted with business people who, eager to maintain access to mainland markets, are seen to take voting cues from Beijing.
Mainland enterprises now account for 55 percent of the listings on the Hong Kong stock exchange, and about half of the city's trade is with the mainland. The links are now so strong that economists warn that a slowdown in China's growth poses the greatest threat to Hong Kong.
''The system itself inserted special interests into the method of picking the chief executive; it makes the chief executive susceptible to special interests,'' said Ma Ngok, an associate professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Mr. Ma called Hong Kong's economy more ''monopolous'' than it was under British rule, as property developers buy land, build high-rises and install in them retail outlets owned by the developers.
The effect of a business-dominated government has spilled into other issues. In a January report, the local research organization Civic Exchange said Hong Kong's air pollution had become so severe that it threatened public health, the city's attractiveness as a place of business and even crucial public works projects, like building a third airport runway. A political disconnect with public concerns is one reason pollution had not been addressed effectively, the group said.
The recent political scandals are likely to feed public pressure for a direct election of the chief executive in the subsequent election year, 2017. But devising a plan that will satisfy the public while reassuring business leaders and Beijing will be difficult. In 2007, the central government in Beijing said the chief executive could be directly elected in 2017, but it did not guarantee such elections would take place, a point not lost on most Hong Kong residents.
''I don't think it will ever happen,'' said Connie Cheung, a participant in the demonstration last weekend. ''I just don't think Beijing will let us directly vote for our leaders.''
Despite the scandals, analysts say the rule of law remains intact and that it was a free and diverse press that reported the accusations of impropriety by public officials.
''Hong Kong always takes care of its business, no matter who runs it,'' said Michael Davis, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald Tsang, Hong Kong's chief executive, has been accused of accepting favors from wealthy businessmen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT YU/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Protesters in Hong Kong voiced their dissatisfaction on Sunday with the city's chief executive, who finishes his term in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); CORRUPTION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RELIGION (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); LAND USE PLANNING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

 
