

401 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Because It's There

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan, a correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of the forthcoming book "The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post-Cold War."

 BODY:

A GREAT WALL
 Six Presidents and China:
 An Investigative History.
 By Patrick Tyler.
 Illustrated. 476 pp. New York:
 A Century Foundation Book/
 Public Affairs. $27.50. 
 China constitutes the ultimate reality check on any administration's foreign policy. For other parts of the world, whose strategic and economic importance is either arguable or negligible, Presidents may get by with posturing. But China -- with its billion-plus population, its economy, soon to become the world's largest, and its belligerent rulers, with their ability to manufacture 1,000 ballistic and cruise missiles if they choose to capture Taiwan -- can exact the most disastrous consequences for sloppy thinking. In 1979, China suffered tens of thousands of casualties in a brief border war with Vietnam, just so Beijing's leaders could teach Hanoi a lesson for invading Cambodia. Nobody should doubt China's willingness to go to war in defense of its interests.
America's relations with this volatile and gargantuan power are the subject of "A Great Wall," by Patrick Tyler. Tyler, a former Beijing bureau chief of The New York Times, is by training an investigative reporter, and this book is primarily the reconstructed inside story, obtained through interviews and newly declassified documents, of how every President from Richard Nixon to Bill Clinton has dealt with China. Tyler's ability to weave a narrative, his intimacy with China itself and his overall fairness toward both Republican and Democratic administrations make this book a powerful statement in defense of pragmatism. Its overarching theme is that with China the stakes are so high that every President -- including Ronald Reagan, with his deep commitment to Taiwan, and Clinton, with his emphasis on human rights -- bowed eventually to Nixon's outline for engagement simply because there was no other choice.
Nixon's accomplishment, Tyler makes clear, was more operational than conceptual, since the idea of using China as a lever against the Soviet Union was not new (it was one that had tantalized Lyndon Johnson). This is no airbrushed account of how Nixon and his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, in Tyler's words, "pulled off the opening." Nixon is shown as obsessively partisan, terrified that a Democrat like Senator Mike Mansfield might be photographed with Mao Zedong before he was. Tyler also notes Kissinger's every unpleasantness -- his nail-biting, his deceitfulness, his use of China policy to subvert the State Department, run by William Rogers before Kissinger himself became Secretary of State.
Yet the completeness of Tyler's account works to give Nixon and Kissinger their due. During his historic visit to China in February 1972, Nixon set the standard for toughness and clarity when he looked across the table at Prime Minister Zhou Enlai and defended America's military presence in the Pacific, admonishing Zhou that if America withdrew, the Soviets would move in. "Nixon said that he realized he sounded like an old cold warrior, 'But it is the world as I see it, and when I analyze it, it is what brings us, China and America, together.' "
Kissinger is shown fawning before the Chinese. But Tyler lets James Lilley, a China-born career officer with the Central Intelligence Agency, explain Kissinger's approach: "You embrace them, you make all the right statements about building strong and genuine relations, and all the while you run espionage operations." After a review of Kissinger's secret understandings with the Chinese during the Presidencies of Nixon and Gerald Ford, President Jimmy Carter's national security aide for China, Michel Oksenberg, concluded that they were "perfectly defensible," and recommended Carter reaffirm them. He did.
Tyler's book is an absorbing account of how ambitious men in every administration battled and undermined each other over China, with policy determined not so much by openness as by secrecy and mutual deception and by the luck of events. Ford and Kissinger failed to establish diplomatic relations with China, while Carter and his national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, succeeded -- not because they were smarter, but because the Carter Administration's efforts coincided with the rise to power in China of the liberalizing and fiercely anti-Soviet Deng Xiaoping. After providing a highly critical commentary on Brzezinski's machinations, Tyler writes, "Given the irreconcilable positions over arms sales to Taiwan, it is, perhaps, hard to imagine that normalization could have proceeded in any more orderly a fashion." Had Carter's Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance, directed the talks, "insisting with lawyerly precision on America's right to sell arms to Taiwan, normalization might never have occurred." The virtue of deception and ambiguity was that they allowed the two sides to disagree while insisting that they didn't.
Indeed, to turn up one's nose at the unbridled ambition and bureaucratic subterfuge on display in these pages would be a sterile reaction. The Washington infighting, Tyler explains, does not begin to compare with that going on in Beijing. And if one could not win bureaucratic battles in Washington, how could one expect to be a match for the Chinese?
In statecraft, success goes to those with aggressive self-interest. Reagan, with all his anti-Communism, did not succeed in selling advanced FX fighter jets to Taiwan. But his pragmatic successor, George Bush, sold the Taiwanese F-16's because the production line was in Texas, Bush's home state and crucial to his bid for re-election.
By the end of this book, though, the distinctions are less between this administration and that one, between liberal and conservative, between Democrat and Republican, than between a hardheaded cold war dynasty of Presidents and their advisers -- all of whom evinced focus and discipline regarding China -- and the unfocused, undisciplined Clinton Administration. Here Tyler is unsparing. He describes a first-term President who refused to meet with his top foreign policy and intelligence advisers, and eventually adopted a policy, dominated by human rights concerns, that was fashionable without being sensible -- and would later have to be abandoned. In a devastating rebuttal from within the Administration at the end of 1993, J. Stapleton Roy, the United States Ambassador to China, said, "If you look at the 150 years since the Opium Wars, then you can't avoid the conclusion that the last 15 years are the best 15 years in China's modern history and of those 15 years, the last 2 years are the best in terms of prosperity, individual choice, access to outside sources of information, freedom of movement within the country and stable domestic conditions." When asked if China would satisfy Clinton's demands for improved human rights, the Ambassador said he didn't know, because the Administration never defined what it meant by significant progress.
In Clinton's defense, it must be said that he has moved toward the realistic center on China policy, to the chagrin of preachy pundits. But how focused is he? Zhu Rongji, the Chinese Prime Minister, stuck his neck out to visit the United States last April, ready for compromise. Yet, Tyler says, "the President took no time to develop a relationship with Premier Zhu and was inattentive to the opportunities that developed in early 1999 to break down the final barriers holding back China's entry to the World Trade Organization."
Such inattention adds up and, combined with cultural misunderstanding, could lead ultimately to one of those conflagrations born out of miscalculation, like World War I. One hopes that Clinton, in what is left of his term in office, and our future leaders will show the same seriousness of purpose toward China that, as Tyler so ably demonstrates, defined our Presidents during the cold war.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Richard Nixon and his wife, Patricia, with American and Chinese officials on the Great Wall of China in 1972. (Reuter/Bettmann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GREAT WALL, A: SIX PRESIDENTS AND CHINA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); VIET NAM (79%); VIETNAM (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (71%); 

COMPANY: CARTER ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); VIET NAM (79%); VIETNAM (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERATURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, ROBERT D; TYLER, PATRICK E RICHARD NIXON (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



402 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Pleasantville

BYLINE: By David L. Kirp; David L. Kirp, professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of "Our Town: Race, Class, and the Soul of Suburbia" and the forthcoming "Almost Home: America's Love-Hate Relationship With Its Communities."

 BODY:

CELEBRATION, U.S.A.
 Living in Disney's Brave New Town.
 By Douglas Frantz and Catherine Collins.
 Illustrated. 342 pp. New York:
 A Marian Wood Book/Henry Holt & Company. $25.
 
 THE CELEBRATION
 CHRONICLES
 Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit
 of Property Value in Disney's New Town.
By Andrew Ross.
 Illustrated. 340 pp. New York:
 Ballantine Books. $25.95. 
 ON Nov. 18, 1995, nearly 5,000 people showed up at the soon-to-be town of Celebration, Fla. They were as impatient and obsessed as the teen-agers who camped out last spring in hopes of securing seats for the midnight opening of "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace." But these were grown-ups, and the stakes they were playing for were far higher than being first on the block to see the young Darth Vader. They had put in play every aspect of their lives -- leaving their hometowns, putting their houses on the market, changing jobs, plunking down their earnest money -- for a 1-in-10 chance of moving into a mosquito-infested bit of central Florida flood plain.
These would-be residents were ready to pay more than a third above market price for the privilege of living in houses so shoddily constructed that they might not be standing in 20 years. They were volunteering to move to a minutely planned town where the artifices of design were intended to evoke neighborly sentiment. Their lives would be regulated in intimate detail, down to the ratio of grass, trees and shrubs on their property and the color of the curtains (white) they could hang in their windows. They would be surveyed as regularly as the Nielsen families; those who accepted the lure of a free computer and cell phone would live with a "Zeus Box" that monitored every telephone call they made and every Web site they visited.
Americans are forever pulling up stakes and starting over, heading out for some new promised land. In this sense, Celebration fever is nothing extraordinary. But the impetus behind this particular migration is very different: an extraordinary faith in the Walt Disney Company, parent of the Celebration Company, whose success depends on creating and marketing fantasy. Year after year, many of the would-be residents had spent their vacations in one of Disney's worlds, in the company of a smiling rodent and a raspy-voiced duck. Now they were betting that, with wallboard and concrete, this company could transform them into characters living in their own Magic Kingdom. They were also wagering that Disney's market magic would translate into big profits when they were ready to move on.
Among these newcomers were Andrew Ross, an American studies professor at New York University, the author of "The Celebration Chronicles," and the authors of "Celebration, U.S.A.," Douglas Frantz, a national correspondent for The New York Times, and his wife, Catherine Collins, also a journalist, who came with their two youngest children. Many anecdotes show up in both books -- no surprise, since there is only so much worth recounting in the life of a very small town. A steady stream of sightseers, under the pardonable misapprehension that Celebration is an annex of Disney World or "The Truman Show" come to life, marvel at how closely the inhabitants resemble actual people. A resident called the Lemon Lady upsets decorum -- and threatens property values -- when she plasters her car with images of lemons to dramatize her rage at her falling-down home.
The centerpiece of both books is the protracted war over the soul of the new public school. In wooing prospective residents, the excellence of Celebration School was one of Disney's biggest selling points. Even as the company brought in world-famous architects, among them Philip Johnson, Michael Graves and Robert Venturi, to design the town's public buildings, it recruited pedagogues of similar stature to design the school's curriculum. When it opened, Celebration School combined just about every progressive innovation of the past generation -- it was as if Johnson, Graves and Venturi had collaborated on a single building. But many parents, who perceived chaos rather than learning taking place, soon grew disenchanted with the experiment. In the most overtly political gesture the residents of Celebration would make, they organized to pressure Disney into abandoning much of its distinctive approach to education, reshaping the school into a conventional grade factory.
The workmanlike prose in "Celebration U.S.A." reflects a scrupulously maintained reportorial balance. Its tales of family life ring true because they are drawn directly from the authors' own experiences. On balance, though, "The Celebration Chronicles" is more entertaining and more insightful. Ross is a raconteur with delicious -- and telling -- anecdotes: Disney's nightly vacuuming of the town's main street; the snow blowers that turn the Christmas party into a sea of soapy flakes; the Hell's Angels who gather at Sweet's ice cream bar; the encephalitis-bearing mosquitoes that keep people off their front porches; Nala, the clawless 400-pound lion who stirs panic when she escapes from nearby Jungle Land. Ross also gives the tale of this new town some context, tracing its lineage to the environmental movement of the 1960's, the postwar Levittowns and much farther back in time to experiments like Brook Farm and the Oneida Community, which embodied Americans' persisting desire to create a utopia.
Both books have the same underlying story line. The parents of Celebration's baby boomer residents had fled the cities for the allure of suburban life, but to the residents of Celebration, suburbia meant only a bumper-to-bumper commute to sterility. The Disney Company promised the revival of Norman Rockwell's America. "There once was a place where neighbors greeted neighbors in the quiet of summer twilight," the Disney pitch ran. "Where children chased fireflies. . . . The movie house showed cartoons on Saturday. The grocery store delivered. . . . Remember that place? . . . It held a magic all its own. The special magic of an American hometown."
With the firm hand of Disney to smooth things over, these recruits to Celebration believed they could journey back to this storybook era. Yet that is an impossible dream, because there is no way to keep the miseries of our times at bay. Crime, abused wives and neglected children are all part of the Celebration story, even if the residents and the Disney Company hush them up.
The notion that a real working community can be invented from scratch is at best implausible. If the master builder is a company as money-driven and image-conscious as Disney, the rhetoric of community becomes merely a way to generate good corporate public relations -- and a vanity play. "I hope in 50 years they say, 'Thank God for Celebration,' "Michael Eisner, Disney's chief executive officer, said. The good vibes generated by Celebration have effectively given Disney a license to remake the surrounding landscape. A little wetlands preservation in Celebration has gone a long way, as the company has used its good-citizen image to obtain environmental permits for much-expanded theme parks and to secure three new Interstate interchanges.
What is to be made of the experiment itself? From the first, Disney insisted that it would not build yet another gated community, a hideaway from the world. The premise of that determination, advanced in the name of idealism, was mainly economics: the downtown merchants relied on the business that tourist traffic would bring. But in its deliberate insularity, Celebration is really a gated community without the gates.
Poor people have a place in working communities, yet Disney's prices insure that Celebration's residents have incomes ranging upward from the solidly middle class. The poor "are not going to have the same commitment to the town," Brent Herrington, Disney's on-the-scene manager, insists. And aside from the Mexican migrants who did much of the actual construction, Celebration is overwhelmingly white. What matters to Disney -- and, sad to say, to many of its residents as well -- is consumer satisfaction, not civitas. Consequently, what Ross calls a "hunger for small-town civility" is transmuted into "a hunger for civic order at all costs."
While the developers of planned communities typically set the initial ground rules, they are quick to hand over authority to a homeowners' association and disappear from the scene. Disney, however, has written the rules to make certain that the company, not the residents, will run the show for decades to come. (It even had the chutzpah to request a say in picking the minister for the first church to open in the town.)
More than a century ago, the railroad magnate George Pullman built a model community whose houses were designed, and whose residents' appearance and behavior regulated, by Pullman's inspectors. As in the town of Pullman, Ill., government in Celebration is treated as a property right that belongs to the founder. Consequently, in Celebration as in Pullman, residents are something less than citizens. The verdict of a Harper's Monthly writer who visited Pullman in 1885 fits Celebration equally well. For all the founder's invocation of American homilies, "the town is un-American . . . benevolent, well-wishing feudalism."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of a highway billboard for Celebration; the Disney name was later dropped. (Ron Dixon/from "The Celebration Chronicles")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CELEBRATION, USA (BOOK); CELEBRATION CHRONICLES, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (88%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; COLLINS, CATHERINE; ROSS, ANDREW ANDREW ROSS (60%); CATHERINE COLLINS (55%); DOUGLAS FRANTZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



403 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Same Old Ball Game

BYLINE: By Burt Solomon; Burt Solomon, a staff correspondent at National Journal in Washington, is the author of "Where They Ain't: The Fabled Life and Untimely Death of the Original Baltimore Orioles, the Team That Gave Birth to Modern Baseball."

 BODY:

A CLEVER BASE-BALLIST
 The Life and Times
 of John Montgomery Ward.
 By Bryan Di Salvatore.
 Illustrated. 477 pp. New York:
 Pantheon Books. $27.50. 
 John Montgomery Ward, a distant cousin of the department store founder, was a vain Pennsylvanian who molded the early history of baseball - both on and off the field. In 1880, he pitched the second perfect game in the sport, five days after the first one. Ten years later he was the leader in baseball's only true revolution, as the organizer and ideologist of the Players' League, which lasted only a season. Then he became a discreet owner's man, as a manager and as a lawyer, trying to claim an august place in baseball's establishment but never quite succeeding.
Ward (1860-1925) was a complicated, self-contained and fascinating man. He was a man of many parts (besides everything else, married for a turbulent spell to a prominent actress), prone to deception and probably self-deception - a hard man to get a feel for. After reading Bryan Di Salvatore's biography, "A Clever Base-Ballist," we find he still is.
This is an annoying book (starting with its dedication in French and its pretentious epigraphs, mercifully translated, from Athenaeus, Herodotus and Dizzy Dean). It seems both padded and thin, as if Di Salvatore, in his first book, needed to pile on words to mask a shortage of well-digested knowledge. He writes four tedious pages on The New York Clipper, an influential sporting and theater weekly that ran an admiring profile of Ward, then just a few brief paragraphs on the 1879 season, Ward's second in the majors, in which he won an astonishing 47 games, and barely a page on his perfect game. Rarely does the book evoke any feeling of being there.
Mainly it plods along with little real sense of tension, which is quite remarkable given the times it portrays. The earth was shifting under Americans' feet. A pastoral society was becoming urban and industrial, and the economy was organizing itself into impersonal trusts.
Ward was a modern sort of fellow. He was - unusual for a ballplayer then - a college man (though he was booted out of Penn State for stealing chickens, before enrolling at Columbia's law school). As a curveball pitcher, Di Salvatore writes, "he was crafty, a thinker, a brain man, the professor. He noted strengths, weaknesses and tendencies. He didn't (or couldn't) overpower batters, pitchers; he outwitted them." He was a scientific ballplayer, as the breed was becoming known, sufficiently cerebral (and articulate) to become the author, in 1888, of a how-to book on playing baseball that Di Salvatore describes as "on the whole, an erudite and gracefully written document."
Ward seems modern in another way: he was at home in a celebrity culture. With his waxed mustache and mannered style he was a natural for New York, where he spent most of his career (mainly with the Giants). His first wife, Helen Dauvray, was a tiny, buxom, hard-eyed, self-dramatizing actress. Ward made her quit the stage, until his repeated philandering drove their childless marriage to a painfully public divorce, worthy of the cover of People were they living now.
There was something else about Ward that makes him seem oh-so-familiar: he was labor's leader in its eternal war against capital. Baseball as a business needed fewer decimal places than it does now, but the dynamics are recognizable. Ward, writing in a national magazine as early as 1886, accused the owners of buying and selling the ballplayers as if they were "live-stock" and likened the reserve rule, which bound a player to a ball club for as long as the club wished, to the fresh memory of slavery. "There was a time when the League stood for integrity and fair dealing; to-day it stands for dollars and cents" - or so the players proclaimed (in a manifesto "almost certainly written by Ward," Di Salvatore reports) in 1890. It was a sentiment that might have been uttered anytime since.
But soon he was a manager and twice, briefly, a team owner and later almost the president of the National League. He could be whatever he needed to be, a man ahead of his times. Yet a reader of "A Clever Base-Ballist" never really understands him from the inside. Why was this son of a "less-than-illustrious" businessman and a schoolteacher - a scion of the middle class, and a lawyer to boot - so passionate about workingmen's rights? Why, as the Players' League collapsed, did he back off from trying to quash the reserve rule after the courts had invited the players to do so? And why did he back away from baseball politics forever after?
Di Salvatore can only guess, and not very persuasively. Nor, he admits, was he able to learn much of anything about Ward's boyhood and adolescence, his homelife, his hobbies, his sandlot teammates, even his style of pitching. (It is sad how much information about all but the most prominent individuals gets lost, and so quickly.) He calls Ward "arrogant" and "fastidious" and "shrewd," but we never see what made him tick.
This is a pity. Di Salvatore is interesting on college life of Ward's time and on the origins and early days of baseball. The book includes some strong passages, like his lovely description of Ward's Pennsylvania hometown ("Bellefonte is peaceful as a napping dog. It also has a high opinion of itself") and his description of Ward's prose style as "concise, forceful and slyly self-effacing." But he also is prone to fits of purple prose, abrupt shifts in tone and metaphors that get out of hand (nearly as many pitchers claim to being the first to throw a curveball "as there are convenience stores in South Carolina"). He tries too hard to be clever - much like Ward.
Ward was standoffish - "there exists no known likeness of him smiling." His teammates disliked him, especially when he was in charge. He was smarter than they were and made sure they knew it. Ward is to be admired from afar, but he isn't someone you would want to spend too much time with, either in a dressing room or in a book in your lap. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CLEVER BASE-BALLIST, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CLEVER BASE-BALLIST (63%); NEW YORK CLIPPER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, BURT; WARD, JOHN MONTGOMERY (1860-1925); DISALVATORE, BRYAN JOHN MONTGOMERY WARD (96%); DI SALVATORE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



404 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 22; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By RAY CORMIER

 BODY:

Late-Season Northwest Trip
Q. My husband and I would like to stretch a November trip to the Napa Valley for a wedding with a cruise or train trip in the Northwest, or perhaps across Canada. What is available then? -- Sylvia K. Marzolf, Savannah, Ga.
A. Cruises up the Pacific Coast are hard to find by the end of October, but cruises on some of the major rivers of the Northwest continue. And scenic train rides are always available. You could easily travel both on water and by rail. 
 Among the cruises is a seven-day sailing out of Portland along the Willamette, Columbia and Snake Rivers on the Queen of the West. This 163-passenger stern-wheeler has outside cabins only. The cruise includes entertainment and excursions on the Mount Hood Scenic Railway, to Mount St. Helens and to Nez Perce Historical Park. Rates are $1,489 to $4,065 a person, double occupancy.
Farther north, the Victoria Clipper, a high-speed catamaran, offers shorter cruise-and-tour packages to Seattle, Vancouver and Victoria, British Columbia, with nights spent on shore in a choice of hotels. A two-night Seattle-Victoria package, for example, including a cruise, a champagne breakfast, accommodations and a tour in Victoria, costs $212 to $294 a person.
An agency that can give you more information on these trips and book them is Sunshine Travel and Cruise, Post Office Box 970, 100 West Second Street, The Dalles, Ore. 97058; (800) 578-1479, fax (541) 296-5561.
To see the Northwest by rail, contact Amtrak, (800) 872-7245, www.amtrak.com, which has a tour division. The railroad's Coast Starlight runs between Los Angeles and Seattle; you could pick it up in Martinez, near Oakland, for an overnight trip and wake up in Oregon. From Seattle, the Cascades route can take you to Vancouver.
In Canada, Via Rail operates trains throughout the Canadian West and across the country. Two routes are the 725-mile Skeena, between Jasper, Alberta, and Prince George, British Columbia, and the Malahat, which traverses Vancouver Island, south and north. And to really see Canada -- or at least a good chunk of it -- there is the Canadian, which runs between Vancouver and Toronto, through Kamloops, Jasper, Edmonton, Saskatoon and Winnipeg.
Via Rail, unlike Amtrak, does not arrange tours. Brewster Tours of Calgary, (800) 661-1152, fax (403) 260-4636, www.brewster.ca, is an agency that works with Via Rail. Shannon Birnie of Brewster said that customized tours can be arranged, but that among the package tours you might consider is the Winter Wonderland, offered from October to April. This seven-night rail-and-bus tour begins in Vancouver and includes two nights each in Jasper and Banff, and single nights on the train and in Lake Louise and Calgary. Rates are $735 to $891 a person, double occupancy.
You might want to look into a joint promotion of Amtrak and Via Rail, the North America Rail Pass. In fall and winter, the pass costs $450 and provides 30 days of economy-class travel (upgrades are possible) on both railroads. Contact Amtrak or the Via Rail Web site, www .viarail.ca, for more information.
 
Dublin Pub Tours
Q. How can I find out about literary pub tours in the fall in Dublin? -- Selma Kleinman, Rockaway Park, Queens
A. To raise a toast or two to Dublin's literary heritage, you should contact Colm Quilligan, the founder of Dublin Literary Pub Crawl Ltd., at (353-1) 670-5602 or (353-87) 263-0270, or by fax at (353-1) 670-5603. There is also www.dublinpubcrawl.com, but at last check, it had information only on the company's Paris Literary Promenade.
Mr. Quilligan said the Dublin tours are offered nightly at 7:30 and at noon on Sunday from Easter to the end of October, and on Thursday to Sunday at 7:30 P.M. and Sunday at noon the rest of the year. For two and a half hours, two actors lead the walkers to four pubs and other sites in Dublin to perform scenes by famous playwrights and novelists and have fun with a literary quiz (there are prizes).
A typical tour, Mr. Quilligan said, starts at the Duke on Duke Street, with extracts from "Waiting for Godot" and "Ulysses." Oscar Wilde is the main subject at Trinity College and a stop at O'Neill's pub nearby, then it's off to the Bank of Ireland (the Old Parliament House) and the next pub, the Old Stand, a haunt of Brendan Behan. Finally, the tour heads for Neary's and Davy Byrne's and the finale: a full-length performance of Beckett's 30-second play, "Breath."
At the rate of $1.33 to the punt, the evening costs $8.65, $7.30 for students, not including drinks. And you might want to bring your autograph book. Mr. Quilligan says the crawls have been joined on occasion by such actors as Kathy Bates, Brian Dennehy and Ian McKellen.
 
Paris Wine Show
Q. I want to plan a trip to Paris around the Salon National des Vins. When will it be held next? -- Allan R. Freelon, Durham, N.C.
A. The Salon des Caves Particulieres (the Independent Wine Growers Show) is held twice a year in Paris by the Confederation of Independent Wine Growers, or C.N.P.C., a union representing about 10,000 growers from all regions of France. While its primary function is to protect and promote the quality of wines made by independent growers, the union also organizes a series of shows throughout the year, in Paris and other cities.
Unlike many others, this salon is geared toward consumers, though professionals -- dealers, sommeliers, restaurateurs -- often attend, too. Each grower sets up a stand and is available to answer questions and give tastings. You can place large orders or buy a few bottles on the spot.
The largest show takes place at the Porte de Versailles in Paris in late autumn, and draws an average of 125,000 visitors. This year, it will be held Dec. 3 to 8. The next Paris show, at the Espace Champerret in the 17th arrondissement, will be April 14 to 17.
Admission to the show is about $6.50 and includes a souvenir engraved glass to use for unlimited free tastings. A catalogue listing all the participating growers costs about $3.25.
Other major cities where the shows are to be held are Lyons, Oct. 28 to Nov. 1; Reims, Nov. 12 to 15; Lille, Nov. 26 to 29, and Strasbourg, Feb. 25 to 28. For more information, go to the C.N.P.C.'s Web site, www.caves-particulieres.com, or call the union at (33-1) 44.74.51.24.
 RAY CORMIER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (58%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (58%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOUNTAINS (90%); CRUISES (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); TRAINS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); LAKES (72%); RIVERS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (53%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: COLM QUILLIGAN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



405 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2747 words

HEADLINE: L.A. Hotels With Attitude

BYLINE: By HILARY de VRIES; HILARY de VRIES reports on entertainment in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
THE hotel scene in Los Angeles is red hot. As part of the city's ongoing revival fueled by a booming local economy, several stylish new upstarts have taken their place alongside such dowagers as the Beverly Hills Hotel, the Regent Beverly Wilshire and the Hotel Bel-Air. This is good news for both travelers and residents who frequent hip hotel restaurants and bars, such as the Mondrian's Sky Bar, ground zero for the cognoscenti when it opened nearly three years ago.
What began with Ian Schrager's renovation of the Mondrian on the Sunset Strip in 1996 and the opening of Shutters on the Beach in Santa Monica in 1993 has gathered momentum in the past 12 months as several new or newly renovated hotels have opened -- with more to come this fall, including Casa Del Mar in Santa Monica and the W Los Angeles in Westwood. I recently stayed in three of them with my boyfriend, Michael. Two have been refurbished and are in Beverly Hills -- the Avalon, the former Beverly Carlton, and L'Ermitage, which has had a $65 million makeover. The Standard on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood is new, renovated from a former retirement home. 

The Standard
The first time I called the Standard to book a room three weeks ahead, the reservations desk was so busy I was told to call back. Open since March, the 142-room Standard has been a hit with those looking for budget-priced, high-style accommodations on the Sunset Strip.
Owned by Andre Balazs, who bought and renovated the Chateau Marmont down the street, the Standard aims at a younger, less affluent -- and yes, harder partying -- crowd than either the Chateau or the Mondrian. When I reached a reservations agent some hours later, I was told the hotel's $95 rooms, among the cheapest in L.A., were long gone. "Those go really fast," the agent told me, adding with remarkable candor, "but they're right on the street and really noisy." That was all I needed to request a more expensive ($165) room on the hotel's quieter south side.
Even before you cross the threshold, the Standard lets you know who's boss. The motel-like 1960's three-story structure with its undulating facade is painted bright white and illuminated by glowing blue lights reminiscent of those bug zappers used at roadside "tourist courts." Under the carport, guests are greeted by valets dressed as gas station attendants circa 1950. The hotel's sign, a white vinyl banner roped to the carport, hangs upside down. No icy Armani-clad chic here. This is a rock-n-roll haven dolled up for 90's ironists. There aren't many places, even in L.A., where you'll find Arco lamps and Ligne Roset sofas in the lobby, a performance art aquarium behind the check-in desk, a resident tattoo artist in the barber shop and condoms in the minibar.
I was braced for similar attitude from the hotel staff, but check-in was smoothly professional, even friendly. And while I was easily the only guest pulling out a pair of reading glasses to sign the registration, the desk clerk assured me I was in for a "great party weekend" with as much enthusiasm as he greeted the group of tattooed 20-something males wearing cargo pants that was checking in next to me.
My room, 326, on the hotel's top floor overlooking the pool deck, was surprisingly large and filled with more stylishly ironic details, like the Andy Warhol flower-print drapes and the matchbook from Hollywood Bail Bonds wedged in the tail-fin ashtray. Decorated in vivid primary colors -- blue, black and white for the bedroom, Day-Glo orange and white for the bathroom -- the room suggested anything but repose. It had a king-size platform bed (with cotton sheets and a single wool blanket) and two nightstands with lamps on dimmers (one of which worked) directly across from a wall-sized mirror hanging over the built-in desk. There was one white plastic desk chair as well as a beanbag chair covered in silver vinyl. The small balcony overlooking the pool was unfurnished. The bathroom was even more spare, with a commercial toilet (no lid) next to a small tub with a shower head and two sets of white towels, Neutrogena soap and shampoo. Six plastic hangers and a laundry bag hung behind a white canvas curtain that served as the only closet.
The room was outfitted, however, with a wealth of electronic gadgets -- large-screen TV with a VCR and premium cable, a stereo with CD player, a cordless two-line phone -- and the minibar, crammed with a full split of vodka, Vaseline and an aromatherapy candle in a pill canister, was a party in itself. If I had just gotten out of college, the room would have qualified as nirvana. Pawing through the minibar (Veuve Clicquot and Gummi Bears!) I felt like Margaret Mead doing field research on Generation Next.
Downstairs in the hotel bar, which was decorated with a rec-room style desertscape mural and surprisingly comfortable wicker tub chairs, I joined Michael for a predinner drink. A breeze from the pool deck fluttered the gauzy drapes and votive candles flickering on the tables. Not that anyone seemed to notice, as the party was already raging with the raucous beer-and-martini crowd.
Dinner in the hotel restaurant -- a 24-hour-coffee shop tricked out in chic brown naugahyde booths -- was more successful. Thomas Rivera, who cooked at Odeon in New York, is the executive chef, and the menu is eclectic and very of-the-minute: miso soup, caesar salad and tuna wasabi pizza. We had a nicely grilled steak frites, chopped vegetable salad and a bottle of Cotes du Rhone from a wine list with unexpected depth. Only the noise from our uproarious fellow diners diminished the experience.
And then the evening really began. One does not -- or should not -- check into the Standard to get away from it all. Back in our room, we spent several minutes on our balcony surveying the bar crowd that had spilled onto the pool deck. Covered in electric blue Astroturf, white lounge chairs and two rectangles of actual grass, the pool area -- standard-sized pool, big deck -- resembles a David Hockney painting during the day. At night, however, it serves as a natural amphitheater. Even with our room's sliding glass doors shut, we could hear enough crowd noise to make sleep only a remote possibility.
Finally, after cranking the room's ventilation system -- there was no thermostat, only a fan with the settings "Blow, Hard, Harder, Stop" -- we created sufficient white noise to fall fitfully asleep. At 4 A.M., we were awakened by the sound of our neighbor's television. By 6:30, we were fully awake from doors slamming and vacuuming in the hall.
We needed sleep. Bolstered by a latte and an egg-white omelet from the restaurant that was now cheerily sun-splashed, we staggered out of the Standard, collected the car from the valets and drove home to take a nap.
The Standard, 8300 Sunset Boulevard, West Hollywood, Calif. 90069; (323) 650-9090, fax (323) 650-2820. Rooms from $95 to $200; suites, $550.
 
Avalon Hotel
The Avalon, in the southern reaches of Beverly Hills, is a world away from the Sunset Strip. The hotel is so low-profile we almost drove past its Lilliputian circular driveway before spotting the small, seafoam green sign among the palms. The former Beverly Carlton, where Marilyn Monroe once lived, it opened in May after a $6 million renovation. It has quickly become a favorite with clothing designers and other fashion people. Now a hideaway of retro chic -- the vintage kidney-shaped pool visible through the lobby's glass walls remains the hotel's focal point -- the Avalon is more evocative of sleepy 1950's-era Palm Springs than modern-day Los Angeles.
As we glided across the cool rosewood and aqua lobby where a thicket of bamboo trunks guards the copper-topped registration desk, the hotel felt more like a chic urban spa. Although it was still working out the opening night kinks -- tape on the glossy black lobby floor indicated where an office wall was yet to be installed -- the conscientious staff more than made up for it.
When we pulled up and the bellman thought he detected a burning smell, he personally checked to make sure the car was not overheating. And at check-in, when despite being the only guests in sight we did not get the room I'd requested -- a $165 terraced room in one of the hotel's two neighboring guesthouses -- we were swiftly given a large room on the top floor of the main "landmark" building with a balcony that overlooked the pool. (Some of the hotel's 88 rooms overlook busy Olympic Avenue.)
Riding the copper-sheathed elevator to the open-air corridors leading to our room, I anticipated plenty of trendy minimalism in Room 324. The lobby alone had convinced me the Avalon was a hotel for those who knew their Eames from their Noguchi. I don't, and it was with some relief that I found our room an oasis of zenlike comfort ballasted with a clear knowledge of a working professional's needs.
Many will appreciate the George Nelson bubble lamps and the Heywood-Wakefield table and moderne-style upholstered furniture done in shades of azure, green and periwinkle. I liked the oversized built-in desk and the Krups coffeemaker as well as the fax machine with a dedicated line in the spacious (Eames-style) double closet. I also loved the snowy cotton sheets, the charcoal chenille throw, the puffy down comforter in a linen duvet cover and the pile of feather pillows on the platform bed. Even the three jazz CD's provided with the stereo were to my taste.
The minibar, too, was L.A. perfect, with its Evian water, protein bars and canned fruit smoothies. Other thoughtful details included an iron and ironing board, stacks of hangers (padded and wooden), a full-length mirror, a 27-inch TV with VCR, and an individual air-conditioning unit with remote.
The bathroom, although not large, was its own sybaritic experience with white tile wainscoting, a sink fashioned from a porcelain bowl, piles of white towels and trendy Philosophy products in a shower dispenser. There was also a magnifying mirror, a hair dryer, a terrycloth robe and, thoughtfully, a chrome wheeled cart for holding towels or toiletries.
The room was such a plush cocoon that we had hoped to simply order a room service dinner. However, the dining room was available only for breakfast and lunch -- it has subsequently opened for dinner and offers 24-hour room service -- so we settled for a drink in the bar, which also doubles as the hotel's diminutive restaurant. With Muddy Waters on the soundtrack, a breeze rattling the palms surrounding the pool and the votive candles glinting off the vintage chrome chairs, it was easy to forget the big city was just outside.
After a quick dinner in Beverly Hills, we beetled back to the Avalon to crank the air-conditioning and watch an old movie from that comfy bed. When the noise from a private party on the pool deck again threatened sleep around 1 A.M., a call to the desk elicted a courteous and immediate response. Within minutes the revelers had been herded into the bar behind closed doors.
Awakened the next day at 8:30 by housekeeping -- we had looked in vain for a Do Not Disturb sign the night before -- we decided to greet the morning early. Michael took a turn in the very compact gym -- a bike, two treadmills, a Stairmaster and some free weights share the glass-walled space with an air-conditioning duct -- while I lolled on one of the black wood lounges by the pool.
At breakfast, despite being tempted by the protein shake with dates, we yielded to buttermilk pancakes and smoked salmon and bagels. With only two other guests sharing the dining room, we asked for, and received, a delayed checkout, in order to spend another solitary hour by the pool. When we slipped down the Avalon's circular drive later that afternoon, I felt as though we were stumbling out of Hollywood's Brigadoon.
Avalon Hotel, 9400 Olympic Boulevard, Beverly Hills, Calif. 90212; (800) 535-4715 or (310) 277-5221, fax (310) 277-4928. Rooms, $185 to $235; one-bedroom suites, $250.
 
L'Ermitage
"And here is your personalized stationery," the bellman said, flipping open the folder on the desk that held two sheets of paper and three business cards printed with my name (albeit misspelled) and the words "in residence." Now, that's service. But I discovered during our 24-hour stay (more about that in a minute) that service is what L'Ermitage is about. Maybe some A-list star or captain of industry can put L'Ermitage through its paces and find the flaws, but I couldn't.
Which isn't to say the hotel's recent $65 million renovation doesn't impress. It does, especially the 124 spacious minimalist rooms decorated in tea-colored silk and English sycamore (and updated with motion detectors, 40-inch TV with combination DVD and CD players as well as cell phones) that seem as conducive to a romantic weekend as a working stay. Once the kind of luxurious but off-the-beaten-path hotel where stars like Elizabeth Taylor repaired after surgery, L'Ermitage, which emerged from its own facelift a year ago, now offers intimate, boutique-style lodgings on Beverly Hill's busy Burton Way. The hushed elegance begins in the lobby, a large, formal room with silk-covered furnishings and opulent bouquets, and the quiet, efficient desk clerks dressed in severe Nehru-collared uniforms. Once again we seemed to be the only guests for the weekend. If I had secretly hoped to be upgraded from the room I'd requested -- a standard room on a high floor with a view of the Hollywood Hills for a promotional rate of $295 -- that desire was rendered superfluous when we arrived at No. 815.
Although one of the hotel's smallest rooms, at 675 square feet it comfortably contained a studio apartment's worth of furnishings -- a king-size bed with gold silk coverlet, a wooden desk with two chairs, a built-in cabinet holding the television and DVD player, two upholstered chairs with an ottoman and a side table. There was also a door leading to a small balcony overlooking the hills.
Separated from the main room by sliding wood shoji screens, a hallway with a lighted bar contained an extensive selection of liquors and complimentary soft drinks as well as stemware from Champagne flutes to martini glasses. Behind another shoji screen was a dressing room with a makeup mirror, closet, safe and chest of drawers. Beyond yet another door was a palatial marble bath with an oversized tub and separate shower.
Amenities included four robes (two terrycloth and two waffle weave), two sets of slippers, five telephones and a fax machine. The toiletries, which included SPF 15 sunblock, were from Aveda. Then the doorbell rang: ah yes, a wooden bento box of chocolates and a handwritten note welcoming us.
Deciding to check out the gym just down the hall from our room, we discovered a health-club's worth of equipment and expansive glass-walled views. Small television sets were positioned at every machine, and in the locker rooms, steam rooms snorted full blast. Up one flight lay the pool deck -- a Roman-bath style retreat with cut limestone, pots of olive trees and bougainvillea, and teak-and-canvas chaises. The solicitous pool attendant who set up our lounges with fresh towels and supplied room service menus, suntan lotion and chilled bottles of Evian at regular intervals added to the country club atmosphere.
Only when we ventured down to the hotel bar and restaurant did L'Ermitage seem less than inviting. Although the staff -- from our waitress to the chef who kept sending out special additions to our dinner of striped bass and arctic char (oysters poached in sake; a verjus sorbet) -- could not have been more welcoming, the echoey domed-ceiling dining room did not exude the warmth or intimacy of the guest rooms.
But I quibble. The next day, after an evening watching "Carlito's Way" on our DVD player and a room service breakfast of fruit, muffins and granola that arrived 10 minutes earlier than promised, we called the front desk to ask about using the pool after check-out. No problem. Within a minute, the desk clerk called back to suggest that we simply "enjoy the room and the pool" and check out when we were ready. Even the fleet of beige-suited bellmen who ushered us to our car at 5 o'clock that afternoon couldn't top that for service.
L'Ermitage, 9291 Burton Way, Beverly Hills, Calif. 90210; (800) 800-2113 or (310) 278-3344. Double rooms, $325 to $448; suites, $780 to $3,800. Ask about promotional rates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three new or redone hotels, from left: the Avalon, L'Ermitage and the Standard. The pool deck at the Standard, covered with electric-blue Astroturf. A room at L'Ermitage; amenities include a choice of robes (terry or waffle weave). The lobby of the Hotel Avalon, a hideaway of retro chic in Beverly Hills that is popular with the fashion crowd. (Photographs by Joe Toreno/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Just outside the elevators of the Avalon. (Joe Toreno/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 28)
 
Map of Los Angeles highlighting Hotels and tourist attractions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD, THE (LOS ANGELES HOTEL); AVALON HOTEL (LOS ANGELES); L'ERMITAGE (LOS ANGELES HOTEL) THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (72%); CASA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD, THE (LOS ANGELES HOTEL); AVALON HOTEL (LOS ANGELES); L'ERMITAGE (LOS ANGELES HOTEL) CASA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); BEACHES (69%); 

PERSON: DE VRIES, HILARY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



406 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: The Harborside Renewal in Baltimore Widens

BYLINE: By CHARLES BELFOURE 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
OVER the last 20 years, this city's Inner Harbor renewal steadily progressed around the northern side of the inlet. The southern side, however, along the Locust Point peninsula, remained industrial and its waterfront was inaccessible to the public.
But this will change now that a $63-million renovation of a former Procter & Gamble soap factory has begun. The project will convert the 15-acre site into a high-technology business center. 
 The conversion will be the first major effort in Locust Point to recycle its many vacant factories and eventually link its waterfront to the successful Inner Harbor development, which began in 1979 with James Rouse's Harborplace.
In the 1960's, much of Baltimore's maritime activity moved out of the harbor basin to take advantage of deeper water and more land, which was needed for unloading container ships.
And despite the start of the Inner Harbor renewal, plant closings in the 70's and 80's resulted in a loss of 2,500 industrial and maritime jobs. In 1995, when Procter & Gamble closed its plant, an additional 550 jobs were lost. The plant was sold the following year to to A & E International, a Korean company that planned to make sake. But the Asian financial crisis forced it to abandon its plans.
Last April A & E sold the property for $6 million to Struever Bros., Eccles & Rouse, a Baltimore-based developer with extensive experience in recycling industrial buildings. The developer then sold off a parcel containing warehouses with a total of 275,000 square feet of space for $3.25 million, retaining a five-building site with a total of 370,000 square feet.
Carl William Struever, the president of SBER, is now completing a renovation financing package of $63 million, 55 percent of which will be a first mortgage financing with the remainder in historic-tax-credit equity -- 25 percent of the total package from the state and 20 percent from the Federal Government.
A developer earns historic tax credits by following Federal guidelines in the restoration of a historic structure. He or she may then sell these credits at a discount to an investor and thus gain financing for a project such as the conversion of the former Procter & Gamble plant, which is on the National Register of Historic Places.
The five buildings in the new development, which will be called the Point, will be named Tide, Dawn, Joy, Cascade and Ivory in honor of the former factory's products. The developer will take 25,000 square feet of space in the Joy building for its headquarters.
Built in 1929, all are four-story, steel frame and brick structures with windows 8 feet high and 12 feet wide, giving tenants an unobstructed view of the harbor and Baltimore's skyline. They are all connected by enclosed skywalks and on the front of each building is a circular recess with Procter & Gamble's stars and moon logo.
MUCH of the factory equipment will be retained and incorporated into the design of the tenant space, including some of the steel soap vats, which are 20 feet in diameter and 30 feet deep.
Imaginatively recycled factories play an important role in drawing computer-related companies, the kind of tenant Mr. Struever is seeking to attract. "The traditional smokestack industries that surrounded Baltimore's harbor can be replaced by computer- and information-related industries such as Web site design and software companies," he explained with great enthusiasm.
SBER's first tenants will be two Web site design and computer graphic companies -- gr.8,inc, which took the entire 110,000-square-foot Cascade building, and TeknoSurf.com, which took 35,000 square feet in the Ivory building. Annual rents are in the $14 to $18 range per square foot.
The Point will be completed in one phase, rather than several, due to strong demand, said Mr. Struever, addding the complex would have a parking garage with a total of about 600 spaces in addition to 650 surface spaces. Completion is expected by the end of next year.
To get to the project now, one has to travel through the streets of an adjacent row-house neighborhood. But in two years, according to Mr. Struever, the harborfront Key Highway will be realigned and extended, providing direct access to the Point.
While land access is important, transportation on the water is key to revitalization in this part of the harbor, said Caroline Moore, director of commercial development for SBER. A stop will be added to the current water-taxi service "to get you to the other side of the harbor in five minutes," said Ms. Moore. A dock with 12 slips for tenants will be built along with transient docking next to a new public promenade.
Some industrial activity will remain in Locust Point, most notably at the site of the Point's next-door neighbor, Domino Sugar. Tenants will look out of their windows and see raw sugar unloaded from huge freighters. "That's a lot more interesting than looking at the side of a high-rise," remarked Ms. Moore.
Across the harbor from the Point is SBER's most recently completed Inner Harbor project, the conversion of the American Can Company site. Completed in 1997 and totally leased, the site houses 60,000 square feet of retail space and 140,000 of office space, in part for an Emerging Technology Center, an incubator space for small high-technology companies. DAP, a maker of adhesives and sealants, moved its national headquarters there from Ohio.
Many consider the renovation of the American Can complex to be the catalyst in the turnaround of the surrounding neighborhood of Canton. It has become an extremely popular place to live, especially for young people and property values have risen accordingly, said William Cassidy, manager of Long and Foster Realty's Fells Point office, who lives in Canton.
"American Can definitely enhanced the whole neighborhood," said Mr. Cassidy, who is seeing the same thing happen in Locust Point. "Because of the P. & G. project, there's a heightened interest, which has already created a scarcity of houses, we're working with a developer who plans to build 41 town houses there."
The Locust Point community next door to the Point is much like Canton's, a working-class enclave home to generations of longshoremen and factory hands. It is best known for being the home of Fort McHenry, the bombardment of which inspired the "The Star-Spangled Banner," and the Baltimore Museum of History, which seeks to preserve the city's important industrial heritage.
The neighborhood is very supportive of his project, said Mr. Struever, because it means jobs to an economically hard hit area. Because it is situated in an enterprise zone, funds will be available for retraining residents for computer-related jobs at the Point.
Development still continues on the other side of the harbor, most notably with a 750-room hotel under construction by the Marriott Hotel Corporation. Port Discovery, an interactive children's museum, has recently opened and plans for an African-American Museum of History and Culture are under way.
The next important Inner Harbor development will be at the 27-acre Allied Chemical site at the edge of the water, where environmental remediation work has recently been completed. It is currently being marketed by its owner.
Mr. Struever, who came to Baltimore 25 years ago after graduating from Brown University with a degree in urban anthropology, has an almost religious fervor about urban redevelopment.
"The great hope for urban American is tapping the richness of city neighborhoods like Locust Point and Canton," he said. "The buildings there that once worked as environments for old industry can easily work for new industries."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl William Struever, left, at former Procter & Gamble site, which his company will renovate. Two views of the former American Can Company building on a site across the Inner Harbor. Many say its development turned around its Canton neighborhood. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Maryland, highlighting Baltimore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STRUEVER BROS, ECCLES & ROUSE; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO STRUEVER BROTHERS ECCLES & ROUSE INC (66%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRUEVER BROS, ECCLES & ROUSE; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX LAW (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: BELFOURE, CHARLES CARL WILLIAM STRUEVER (71%); JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



407 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Downsizing The Broadway Musical

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
THE dancing corkscrew will still be there, as will the singing whisk and the graceful cheese grater. But there may be slightly fewer spinning plates and spatulas when "Beauty and the Beast" reopens on Nov. 12.
And over at "The Scarlet Pimpernel," which reopened Sept. 10, there are fewer people waiting to be executed in the guillotine scene. 
 "Beauty and the Beast" closed at the Palace Theater on Sept. 5 and is coming back in a slightly smaller version to the Lunt-Fontanne Theater on Nov. 12; the cast will drop by seven, including understudies and swings (who fill in for various roles). Similarly, "The Scarlet Pimpernel" closed at the Minskoff on May 30 and reopened at the Neil Simon after several weeks of touring, having scaled back its cast by 12 and its orchestra by 4.
Musicals are typically made more modest when they leave Broadway for the road. But it is unusual for a show to close in New York and then reopen there in reduced form, particularly at a time when the industry has increased the top ticket price to $80 from $75. And, taken together, these two examples suggest a potentially significant rethinking about how to produce shows for less when musicals increasingly cost more.
The producers of "The Scarlet Pimpernel" and "Beauty and the Beast" maintain that the changes are imperceptible and the shows have improved considerably as a result of scaling them down. "It plays better in an intimate space," said Robert Longbottom, the director of "Pimpernel." "This is a story about three people, and you can touch them at the Neil Simon. It's substantially less people onstage, but it doesn't feel that way."
Some of the scenery has also been simplified. What was previously a full stage elevator that simulated a ship is now a scissor lift. "It's the low-tech version of it," Mr. Longbottom said. "But it's absolutely as graceful and as magical."
Nevertheless, the downsizing raises questions that some in the theater industry will have to deal with if this practice gains in popularity. Might not such reductions ultimately compromise content? Won't other producers inevitably want to follow suit and try to sustain a run by revamping shows, conceivably at the expense of production values? What does this mean for theater audiences?
"Costs are just as important as quality," said Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters.
But what about the loss of jobs? The New York musicians union, Local 802, is contesting the reduction in the number of musicians in "Pimpernel" from 24 to 20, even though the union-set minimum drops from one theater to another. "The fact of diminishing the production and selling it for the same dollars, there is something wrong with that," said William Moriarty, president of the local.
While union rules require the Neil Simon Theater to use four fewer musicians than the Minskoff does, the union is arguing that the streamlined "Pimpernel" is the same production and therefore should maintain the same number of musicians. "Our contract says the orchestra is hired for the run of the show in New York City," Mr. Moriarty said.
He said his union had a meeting scheduled later this week with the grievance committee at the League of American Theaters and Producers. "This is a new set of circumstances so far as I'm aware," Mr. Moriarty said. "If it is the wave of the future, now is the time to address this issue."
Mr. Moriarty said he also planned to talk with the producers of "Beauty and the Beast" about making sure the orchestra for that show retains the same musicians from one production to the next.
Alan Eisenberg, executive director of the Actors Equity Association, the actors union, said he, too, was troubled by the scaling down of musicals.
"Somebody with a long time on a show can be downsized out with no kind of compensation for the commitment that they've made," he said. "There should be some recognition of seniority. Jobs are hard to come by." As it is, he noted that union members work an average of only 16 weeks a year.
Some producers are skeptical about whether downsizing can work. Tom Viertel, a Broadway producer, said he tried it unsuccessfully years ago with a show called "Sills & Company," moving to a smaller theater and reducing the cast to five from nine to save money. "Whether you can actually turn things around by tightening up, I don't know," Mr. Viertel said. "It didn't work for us. The audience tightened up too."
Others say the trend signals a healthy re-examination of how Broadway plays are produced, an approach that would be best adopted before a show opens rather than after it is up and running. "If this signals a kind of responsible reaction or need to have these productions come in at figures that can actually be economically feasible, I think that's terrific," said Margo Lion, a Broadway producer. "Hopefully, they'll be even better than they were before."
Tom Schumacher and Peter Schneider of Walt Disney Theatrical Productions played down the changes to "Beauty and the Beast" as little more than the kind of polishing that is always done with a show. In fact, they said, a song ("There's Been a Change in Me") was recently added, an unusual step four years into a show's run.
"We're not out there saying simpler, smaller, cheaper," Mr. Schneider said. "We're saying it's a move to the Lunt-Fontanne to keep it running longer."
Indeed, the people behind these productions seemed to bristle at the suggestion that their shows had somehow diminished in quality because they had decreased in size. "The producers had the option to end the run or to rethink it in a smaller house," Mr. Longbottom said. "And I think it has been overdramatized what that rethinking means. We simply have moved to a smaller home and in doing that, you sometimes have to throw out furniture."
Elizabeth Ward Land, who has been in "Pimpernel" since the beginning, said the show had benefited from becoming more compact -- there had previously been people on stage who didn't do much -- but that it was hard to see some of her colleagues go. "I think for the people who stayed, they were glad to have a job," she said.
Jed Bernstein, president of the producers league, pointed out that the reconfiguration of these productions has meant the preservation of some jobs rather than the elimination of all of them.
"In what other industry is there this notion that there are no efficiencies to be gained?" he asked, adding: "It isn't about the number of people. It's about what tells the story the best and that's what should govern, not some antiquated rule. And if you can save money, great, because it will give the show longer life and make it better for everybody."
There is a tradition of renovating long-running shows. In an extreme example, the producer Cameron Mackintosh replaced almost the entire cast of "Les Miserables" after deciding that the production had grown stale.
But the prospect of slimming down musicals is a new question for Broadway. Where until just a few years ago the idea of closing, reworking and reopening a show would have been financially prohibitive for most producers, corporate deep pockets have now made it possible to finance such transitions.
But both producers in this case say they did not scale down their productions mainly for financial reasons. They did it, they say, because of real estate; their theaters had been promised to other shows. "The Scarlet Pimpernel" had to leave the Minskoff because "Saturday Night Fever" was moving in. "Beauty and the Beast" had to leave the Palace for Disney's "Aida."
"Sure, economics are part of it -- it's a commercial venture," Mr. Schumacher said. "But at the end of the day, it's the quality of the show that matters."
Tim Hawkins, the executive producer of "The Scarlet Pimpernel," said moving was not a matter of choice or financial necessity. The show was grossing a respectable average of just below $500,000 a week before it closed, he said, and "the move and adjustments are happening because we're forced to move to a smaller theater."
Nevertheless, costs will be about 20 percent lower in the smaller theater. The Neil Simon not only has fewer seats (1,300 compared to the Minskoff's 1,700), but its total dimensions are about 60 percent that of the Minskoff, Mr. Hawkins said. He said "Pimpernel" had to scale down to adapt to that new tighter space.
And while die-hard fans may notice that there is no longer a crowd scene where there used to be one, Mr. Hawkins said: "We believe that the perception will be that nothing changed, that the show delivers now maybe even moreso than than it did in the Minskoff."
This will mark the third incarnation of "Pimpernel," a version its creators refer to as Pimpernel 3.0. The first overhaul, undertaken last year, was prompted by flagging ticket sales. "Pimpernel" had some loyal -- and wealthy -- fans in the Cablevision Systems Corporation, which acquired the musical in partnership with the financier Theodore J. Forstmann, one of the show's original producers.
After a period of rehearsing the new show during the day while performing the old version at night, "Pimpernel" reopened last fall with substantial changes: new lines, discarded scenes and moved songs.
Aside from some new choreography, the current revised "Pimpernel" has changed in that the total cast has shrunk from 41 to 29 . This reduction has meant more responsibility for each cast member. "An ensemble member may go from being a soldier in one scene to a maid in another scene to someone at the royal ball in the next scene," Mr. Hawkins said.
As to whether it was difficult to let some longtime cast members go, Mr. Longbottom said: "That's never easy."
The cast of "Beauty and Beast" has dropped from 39 to 32. And the show's producers said the lighting, sound and sets have been improved. For the big production number, "Be Our Guest," in which the kitchen comes to life in inviting Belle (Beauty) to dinner, the producers said the changes would be minor. "There will be some adjustments to the cutlery," Mr. Schumacher said. "But all your feature condiments containers are safe. They haven't been affected."
Whether self-justifying or not, producers say such efforts will ultimately make their productions measurably better, without making them perceptibly different. "It's like honey, I shrank the show," Mr. Longbottom said. "But because of the house that it's in, it looks just as big to me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The "Be Our Guest" production number will lose a few pieces of singing cutlery when "Beauty and the Beast" reopens in November. (Joan Marcus/"Beauty and the Beast")(pg. 8); Carolee Carmello, center, and other members of the new, smaller cast of "The Scarlet Pimpernel," which closed at the Minskoff Theater in May and recently reopened at the Neil Simon in reduced form. (Joan Marcus/"The Scarlet Pimpernel")(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) MUSICAL THEATER (91%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TICKET SALES (66%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN MARVIN NEIL 'NEIL' SIMON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



408 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Peeking Inside Other People's Dream Houses

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
MODERN life is long, modern art is short. That's why art keeps getting better all the time. If you don't like it now, just stick around for a while. Eventually, something likable is bound to turn up.
It's a pleasure to report, for example, that the Museum of Modern Art's architecture and design department is back on track after several lackluster seasons. "The Un-Private House," a current show organized by the department's chief curator, Terence Riley, has been a popular as well as a critical success, so crowded at times that it's impossible to see the many fine works on view. "Different Roads," a show of concept cars organized by Christopher Mount, an associate curator, is not brilliant, but it has also been a crowd pleaser. Who doesn't like a car show? 
 And who doesn't get a voyeuristic thrill from peeking into private houses? That thrill is the subtext of "The Un-Private House," an exhibition of 26 recent residential designs (through Oct. 5). The supertext is the erosion of the borders between public and private realms, as seen from the homeowner's point of view. Media walls, open floor plans, glass walls, Moebius strip staircases, virtual chefs -- these are just a few of the devices used to blur or dissolve the oppositional relationship between public and private space. But the subtext -- the museum audience gazing into places designed for private clients -- is what gives this show its timely appeal.
After all, what would a self-respecting media wall have been showing us in recent years? A world convulsed by the performances of public figures in private places: President Clinton in White House corridors; Princess Diana backstage at the Ritz Hotel; John F. Kennedy Jr. in a single-engine plane. A world in which people may think they know JonBenet Ramsey's family better than the Ramseys know themselves -- better, for that matter, than they know the people living beneath their own roofs.
These convolutions, the endlessly televised discussions of them and the global hand-wringing over threats to privacy posed by the discussions have brought the show's theme to the table of mass culture. They have also embodied that theme, by bringing public discussion into the private living room. The show gives us an avant-garde rendering of issues that have already passed into popular consciousness.
The installation sets forth these issues with muted Pop Art flair. Drawings, photographs and wall texts are framed by strips of floral powder-room wallpaper. Tables, chairs, a bed. At the psychic center of the show is a conversation group of furniture, with a shelf unit containing books and periodicals. The arrangement is meant to evoke a private living room, but in fact it more nearly resembles a waiting room, crowded by individuals who do not converse, who have extra time on their hands and loads of glossy magazines to help them pass it.
With this interactive display as its focal point, the rest of the show begins to look like a series of bubbles over people's heads as they leaf through the pages of decorating magazines, fantasizing about what it would be like to live in such-and-such a showplace. And this image of collective solipsism -- of people losing themselves in other people's dream houses -- becomes a useful way to think about architecture today.
If the show were a story, the headline might read, "Housing Starts on the Rise in Ritalin Nation." "The Un-Private House" is a good illustration of what Richard J. DeGrandpre, the author of "Ritalin Nation," calls rapid-fire culture, a civilization hooked on constant sensory stimulation. In addition to the photographs, models and drawings, there are video monitors displaying computer animations. Spacy musical soundtracks twiddle away, their overlapping sonorities competing for attention.
Adjacent to the waiting room is a large round table, seating eight, with a Lazy Susan in the middle. The Lazy Susan holds plastic disks, one for each of the houses in the show. You take a disk, place it on a round spot on the table, and up pops a menu for an interactive tour. Information about the architects, comments by the curator and montages connecting pictures of the houses with highlighted sections of their plans are projected from beneath the table onto its translucent white surface.
All this has been designed to provide more information than is usually found in architecture shows, but the effect is rather the opposite. The works on view become a kind of disturbance, a distraction from the rapid-fire environment in which they are presented. I don't mean this as a criticism. Rather, the presentation reveals the extent to which architecture has accommodated itself to a distracted way of life.
The 26 projects in the show span a broad esthetic spectrum but are clustered around two extremes: Hot and Not. Not houses (Francois de Menil, Hanrahan & Meyers, Steven Holl) descend from the tradition of Arts and Crafts. They emphasize comfort, unpretentiousness and serenity, and often evoke the refined vernacular of the Japanese house. Hot houses (Herzog & de Meuron, Hariri & Hariri, Neil M. Denari, Diller & Scofidio, Rem Koolhaas) are the descendants of Italian Futurism. Startlingly unconventional, they make furious display of new materials, new technologies, new ways of organizing space.
Most of us would probably prefer to live in the Not houses. But what are they doing in this show? It's telling that such a question should arise. Modern audiences, at least, would rather have the sensory stimulation of the Hot than the familiar comforts of the Not.
Delivering shocks of the new has been central to the Modern's mission since its inception. Shows like "The International Style" (1932) and "The New Italian Landscape" (1972) are landmarks in the history of rapid-fire culture. The museum would be failing at its job if it didn't transmit the innovative spirit of the Futurists, the de Stijl group, the Bauhaus, the Constructivists and other nerve centers of the Modern Movement. In 1933, Alfred H. Barr Jr. famously compared the Modern's collection to "a torpedo moving through time."
"Different Roads," a show of recent and prototype cars, isn't strong enough to stand on its own, but as a complement to "The Un-Private House" it is very useful (through Tuesday). It may strike you, for example, that the cars look far more substantial than the houses. This is partly because the houses are represented by models and photographs, while the cars appear as themselves -- in person, so to speak. "Different Roads" also presents at rest objects that are designed to move. As displayed in the Modern's sculpture garden, the cars could pass for metallic pavilions.
Other factors make the cars look uncommonly down-to-earth. Though varied in concept, size and styling, they are all molded around common elements: wheels, doors, windows, seating, engine, instruments, safety features, head and tail lamps, aerodynamics, ergonomics and scale. Americans are primed to see the car as a spiritual home, the house as an extension of the garage. In a society economically rooted in the consumption of gas and in the cars that burn it, the house is a waiting room where people get to rest up between rides. In a twist on "The Un-Private House," "Different Roads" offers a look at the vehicle for injecting the private sphere into public space. The car phone, coffee holder, CD player and seats add up to a living room on wheels. It is the fulfillment of the Futurists' dream.
In the Modern's garden, you see people pressing their noses against the windows. This is partly just to check out the interior, but it is also because the appeal of driving resides mainly in being on the inside looking out: watching the world go by, passing other cars, choosing routes, speeds and music. It is about controlling the world of objective reality from within a subjective frame.
As Mr. DeGrandpre argues, Ritalin's function is to alter consciousness -- to modify subjective space. It brings perception into closer alignment with the objective reality of cultural acceleration. It is a short step, in other words, from the DaimlerChrysler Concept Vehicle to the ingestion of a Ritalin capsule. One capsule is driven, the other is swallowed. But both have the effect of speeding up consciousness so that people can remain in place.
"The Un-Private House" is so full of arresting visual images that the show's social content is easily undervalued. Why these rich people's dwellings? Why isn't the Modern leading the way with prototypes for affordable housing? In fact, this is one of the most socially informed architecture shows the museum has ever presented. It shows that there is a range of possible responses to rapid-fire culture, from Hot to Not. That range, more than any individual work, displays the pivotal role architecture plays in modulating the social, intellectual and psychological forces of contemporary life.
And the implications of this lesson extend far beyond the design of suburban houses. For if you turn the show's theme inside out, you arrive at the Un-Public City. You reach the metropolis in which many of us now dwell -- with its privatized services, its business improvement districts, mall-like festival marketplaces and public-private partnerships in major real estate developments.
But where is the architecture that responds with creative verve to the accelerating urban condition? That is the question to which "The Un-Private House" indirectly leads us. Thus far, what we've seen mostly are Not solutions. Retro theme parks like Battery Park City. Cheap cast-concrete versions of prewar stonework. Bishop's-crook lampposts, fearful interpretations of context, oom-pah-pah celebrations of formerly faded landmarks.
This slow-down mentality only masks the changes overtaking older urban centers. Like a gated suburban community, it keeps the reality of acceleration at bay. Masks can be witty, even profound. Wearing them is a perfectly reasonable option for people in a modern democracy. The problem is that the city isn't offering other options. Where are the office buildings, apartment towers, theaters and airport terminals that explore the changing boundaries between public and private space? Designs that deal with porosity, flexibility and subjectivity in the public realm? These options are seldom seen, or even contemplated. That's one reason modern life keeps getting worse.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A living room in the "The Un-Private House" show at the Modern; right, the DaimlerChrysler Composite Concept Vehicle. (Photographs by Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 37); A digital house by Hariri & Hariri in "The Un-Private House" show at the Museum of Modern Art. (Hariri & Hariri Architects)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (76%); CONCEPT CARS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; RILEY, TERENCE BILL CLINTON (53%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



409 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
Reinventing the Campus of Bedford's Middle School

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

DATELINE: BEDFORD

 BODY:
THE architect of an ongoing construction project at this town's middle school calls it a "reinvention" of an unusual campus, which was originally designed as something of an educational experiment.
"It was really an architectural challenge in that we created new spaces, had to link them all together and, at the same time, keep the integrity of what was there before," said Peter Gisolfi, head of the firm that bears his name in Hastings-on-Hudson, which designed the school's renovation. 
 The $8-million project at the Fox Lane Middle School, which is expected to be completed next month, is one of a large number of construction projects now taking place in school districts throughout the county. But it is probably the most ambitious in that it changes the way the school operates and its approach to learning.
The school, which serves grades 6 to 8, is unusual for a middle school since it's not one building, but rather a minicampus inside a larger campus that also includes the high school. It was originally designed in 1966 by the Architects' Collaborative, a design firm in Cambridge, Mass., based on a pedagogical model developed by educators at Harvard University.
The concept was to build three academic "houses" in separate buildings, plus an octagonal central building. Each house would have students from all three grade levels, with many classes mixing students from each grade in an "integrated learning" approach.
"It worked better in the conception than in the execution, I think," said Mr. Gisolfi, explaining that the academic "houses" were built into the side of a hill. "They designed the buildings as if they were on a flat surface," Mr. Gisolfi said. "The students were forced to walk up hills and down in inclement weather. The school board wanted us to link the buildings and create more space for expanding enrollment. "
His firm's solution was to design covered walkways linking the academic buildings. "They all have glass walls on the interior court with windows on the opposite side," Mr. Gisolfi said. "This provides light and gives students a sense of protection from the outside world. But inside, they can see each other walking from building to building."
To address the space issues, the firm designed a new 12,000-square-foot library and cafeteria building, which now serves as the focal point of the campus. Moving both functions out of the academic buildings served to free up space to add more classrooms and other specialized spaces.
Previously all three houses had their own cafeteria space, which was just an open area right outside the classrooms. "With the old set-up, teachers would be trying conduct classes with kids outside making noise during their lunch break," said Judith Schuldenfrei, the school's principal. "It created a lot of tension. Now kids can have the space to relax and socialize, which is very important."
In addition, said Ms. Schuldenfrei, "children from other houses can now eat together if they have the same lunch period. Previously the houses were restricted and you could only eat with other students in the same house."
The old library is now a music suite, with a band and orchestra room, as well as several practice rooms. There's also a new fine arts center in the octagonal building. "With the reconstruction," Ms. Schuldenfrei said, "we now have whole areas devoted to the arts, which is great considering that the arts are being eliminated from many schools now due to cutbacks."
Joshua Zinder, the project architect who is overseeing the day-to-day construction, likens the project to an Italian hill town. "You know how an Italian town will have a wall around it," Mr. Zinder said. "There's an open piazza or center court. And in the center there's a church or temple. Well, instead of a church, we have a library."
The 6,000-square-foot library, on the second floor of the new building, sits at the top of a hill. With oversized windows and soaring ceilings, it now occupies the highest ground, and is meant to evoke a "temple of learning," Mr. Zinder said.
He added that it was important to work with the original design of the campus, which emphasized the modernist form "allowing structural engineering to shape the architectural form."
"We preserved that theme," he said. "There's an emphasis on exposed building materials, like grilles and pipes."
THE entire project is being funded by an $18 million bond that also includes work on the district's high school and its five elementary schools.
"What we're doing in the other schools is more standard, like adding classrooms and dining rooms," Mr. Zinder said. "The middle school was a very unique project, in that it's an unusual design to start with"
In addition to its work in Bedford, the Gilsofi firm is desgining three other school projects, said Janet Ladd, the firm's director of marketing. They are in Scarsdale, Mamaroneck and Irvington.
There are several other school projects in the works in the county, one of the most extensive in New Rochelle. In that city on Long Island Sound, voters approved a $38.6 million bond referendum last year to pay for rewiring all of its public school buildings and to "enlarge our space, " said Dr. Bruce Watkins, Superintendent of Schools. "Our enrollment is increasing at 3 percent a year -- we're bulging at the seams."
Dr. Watkins said there were several reasons school districts were embarking on such projects now. For one thing, the state has provided an additional 10 percent of aid for those projects approved after July 1, 1998.
"So many districts were waiting for that," he said. "Of the 700-plus school districts in the state, I think you'd find that most are now doing projects. The work, in most cases, is long overdue, the schools infrastructure has gotten tired out, enrollment is up and technology needs are increasing. It's essential for children's education that the districts keep up.
"Add to that the favorable economy, the fact that there's cheap money to borrow now, and with the 10 percent incentive from the state, it's created a unique environment for change, which is what we're seeing now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Main entrance to Fox Lane Middle School in Bedford, above. Interior court with connector walkways between "academic houses," left. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEDFORD (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ARCHITECTURE CONSTRUCTION (91%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

PERSON: GISOLFI, PETER A; VIZARD, MARY MCALEER PETER GISOLFI (75%); JOSHUA ZINDER (74%); JUDITH SCHULDENFREI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



410 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3074 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY;
In a Tight Market, New Areas Bloom

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
WHEN executives of Kenneth Cole Productions, a designer of clothing and footwear, decided to move the company's headquarters from Carnegie Hall Tower at 152 West 57th Street to 601 West 50th, at 11th Avenue, they gave up the ambiance of one of the city's premier retail streets for a neighborhood perhaps best described as Gasoline Alley.
Auto dealerships line both sides of the avenue, sharing the space with bars, diners and a full-block Con Ed electrical substation. The service entrance for Manhattan Chrysler Plymouth Jeep is just a few paces north of the front door of 601 West 50th. 
 But with annual office rents in the area in the range of $20 to $30 a square foot, compared with $60 and above on 57th Street, Mr. Cole stands to save a lot of overhead costs on the 126,000 square feet the company will eventually occupy.
"Price was a factor," said Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate of Manhattan, which brokered the deal. "Ken Cole is a guy who fights for every penny. But it is also a trendy location for all his young creative people."
Mr. Cole's decision to move to a neighborhood far from traditional office areas, along with similar moves by advertising agencies, architectural firms and new-media companies to formerly industrial areas, indicates that almost no Manhattan location is off-limits in the current real estate boom.
The shift to nontraditional areas reflects a strong economy in which employment gains have produced a tight market for office space in most areas of Manhattan and have spurred the construction of new buildings, notably in Times Square and the suburbs, particularly the New Jersey waterfront.
The effects of the strong economy go beyond the office segment of the real estate business. Retailers are jockeying for new locations and testing new parts of town on the East and West Sides. Hotel occupancy rates have fallen somewhat from the peak levels of recent years, notably for the most expensive rooms, but analysts say the business remains prosperous.
Indeed, veteran real estate executives say it is hard to see a cloud on the horizon, despite the historic cyclicality of the industry. The number of jobs in the city has been growing steadily, largely spurred by Internet-based companies, and most of the few new buildings that are planned or under construction are already leased.
"The real estate market is as healthy as I have seen it in three decades in the business," said Thomas P. Falus, president of Cushman & Wakefield of New York, the real estate services company.
He said downturns in the real estate business had usually come in reaction to excesses of the past, like the 17 million square feet of office space that came onto the market in Manhattan in the late 1980's and early 1990's. "Right now there is no excess," he said. "There is no overbuilding and no overpaying. Barring some unforeseen external calamity, I don't see any reason why the market will not stay healthy."
Real estate executives said economic pressures were forcing companies to look at previously neglected areas. "In this market," said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, the Manhattan real estate services firm, "traditional patterns are disappearing, the way they did in the late 1980's, when non-garment tenants started moving into the Garment Center. Now, industrial space on the West Side is not only acceptable, but is desirable."
An example of the phenomenon, she said, is the Starrett-Lehigh Building on 26th Street between 11th Avenue and the West Side Highway, where space has quickly become more expensive as high-technology companies replace the industrial tenants of the past. Martha Stewart recently signed a lease for 75,000 square feet in the building for editorial production facilities, including photo studios and workshops and, potentially, an Internet development site. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia's main Manhattan office is to remain at 11 West 42d Street.
"Less than two years ago, you could have rented space there for $9 a foot," Ms. Tighe said. "Today it's more like $25 a foot, and people are lining up to get into the building."
She said many companies in creative fields are deliberately avoiding traditional office locations in favor of industrial buildings, whose expansive floors are easily adapted to open-plan layouts. "I could do better economic deals in pre-World War II buildings downtown," she said. "But many companies want an Internet environment, where they can quickly form teams to handle projects and solve problems."
Meeting the needs of the creative people who staff Kenneth Cole Productions' product and store display units and its internal advertising agency figured into the decision to move to the far West Side as much as saving money did, said Paul Blum, the company's chief operating officer.
"Everything we do is urban-inspired, so it would not be advisable to leave the city," he said. "We could have made a deal downtown, but that would have put us too far away from the wholesalers who are in the 40's and 50's and like to drop in and see what we are doing."
He said the far West Side is close enough to these customers, and affordable enough to give the company space to spread out. The pool hall on the ground floor will be replaced with a showroom, he added.
The current demand for flexible office space comes at a time when Internet companies, just a small presence a short time ago, are becoming an important force in Manhattan real estate. According to figures compiled by Colliers ABR, the brokerage and real estate services firm, Internet and computer-based companies signed 52 leases totaling 1.3 million square feet from January through the end of July, with 515,000 square feet of that on the West Side.
"Real estate is the second-biggest problem for these companies after raising money," said Paul J. Mas, senior managing director of Colliers ABR. "They need space to add bodies to grow, because if they don't grow, they get left behind. The standard growth rate is to double in size in one year and then double again in two years."
Cushman & Wakefield has reported that the number of jobs in the Internet and new-media fields in New York City is expected to reach 188,000 by next year, an increase of 80 percent since 1997.
With the continuing deregulation of the telecommunications industry, new types of telecommunications companies are bidding for space as well, creating another new category of tenant. According to Colliers, 31 telecommunications companies signed leases for a total of 784,853 square feet in the first seven months of the year. Six of those were in the old Port Authority distribution building at 111 Eighth Avenue between 15th and 16th Streets, another industrial building that is becoming home to the trendy and high tech.
The growth of these new businesses, executives say, may provide support for the overall economy of the region and the real estate industry even if traditional business sectors in New York, like financial services, suffer setbacks. "People are starting to believe that this economy is different from the past, that the growth of the Internet and biochemical industries have changed the economic situation," said Benjamin V. Lambert, chairman of Eastdil Realty, a Manhattan real estate investment company.
He said capital markets have largely returned to normal after the turmoil of last year, when international events caused some forms of financing, like commercial mortgage-backed securities, to freeze. "There is a sufficient supply of capital available, but the providers of capital were sufficiently daunted last year that underwriting standards have risen," Mr. Lambert said. This means that developers need to find more equity to complete transactions.
In addition, the price of money is slightly higher this year than last because the Federal Reserve has increased interest rates, Mr. Lambert said.
Because of last year's credit market turmoil, putting deals together is more complicated, said Howard L. Michaels, chairman of the Carlton Group of of New York. "Before that, you could make one phone call and get 90 to 95 percent financing," he said. "Now you need to put two or three lenders together to complete a transaction."
For these reasons, the pace of property sales dropped well below the torrid rate of early 1998. Cushman & Wakefield reported that 16 major Manhattan properties with a total of 13 million square feet of space were sold for $2.1 billion in the first half of this year.
One of the most significant was Chase Manhattan Bank's sale of One New York Plaza to TrizecHahn for $390 million. The 2.1 million- square-foot building was thus valued at $185.38 per square foot.
More recently, the closely held W & M Properties sold the building at 1185 Avenue of the Americas to a group led by Goldman Sachs & Company for $195 million. The 1.1 million-square-foot building, on the southwest corner of West 47th Street, was valued at $177.27 a square foot.
The August vacancy rate in midtown office buildings was 7.1 percent, according to Colliers ABR, and it is expected to stay at about that level as the delivery of new buildings, like the 1.4 million-square-foot Conde Nast headquarters in Times Square, makes space available elsewhere. The average asking rent in midtown reached $42.74 a square foot in August, Colliers reported, an increase of 12 percent over the year-earlier level.
While the averages have come up, some individual deals have come up far more. Colliers reported that leases were signed at $80 a square foot at 9 West 57th and at 767 Fifth Avenue, the General Motors Building.
The midyear vacancy rate in midtown south was similar to midtown's, 7.2 percent, but asking rents were sharply lower, an average of $27.61 a square foot, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Although the average asking rent has increased 28.1 percent from year to year, midtown south remains the most affordable office market in the city.
The vacancy rate for Class A space in the downtown area has dropped to 4 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the lowest in 18 years. The overall vacancy rate downtown remained steady at 8.4 percent as the pace of leasing slowed. But following the pattern of the rest of Manhattan, the average rent rose to $32.31 a square foot from $28.14 a year earlier.
Downtown is handicapped by transportation problems and by the perception that it is remote from midtown, Mr. Falus said. "Downtown does not seem to attract a meaningful migration from midtown," he said. "People would rather go east or west than south. Somebody commuting in from Greenwich can get to Seventh Avenue in the 40's more easily."
Steadily rising rents and a diminishing amount of available space is good news for property owners. But the flip side for tenants is steadily rising costs and a lack of leverage in negotiations.
James Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, a tenant representative, said some landlords were playing prospective tenants off each other. "In the past, when you requested a lease, the space was taken off the market," he said. "Now they are not taking it off the market, and if a better deal comes along, they'll take it."
But Mitchell Steir, an executive vice president of Julien J. Studley, another tenant representative, said tenants and their brokers can employ strategies to probe for opportunities. For example, he said, savvy brokers can find out which space will be vacated over the next few years and use the information to their clients' advantage. "As you view the data, it is not technically available," he said of such space. But landlords likely to lose tenants soon may be willing to make deals now to prevent vacancies.
"There is usually more there than immediately meets the eye," he said.
 
The Suburbs Waterfront Space Is Much in Demand
Commercial tenants are bidding for space along the New Jersey waterfront as fast as construction projects are announced, said Seena Stein, president of Newmark of New Jersey. "I've never seen anything like it in 20 years," she said. "There is an unending flow of people coming from New York and some of them are bidding money over the asking price to get space."
Among the tenants that have signed deals for waterfront space are American Express, PaineWebber, Lord Abbett and U. S. Trust.
The Lefrak Organization, Hartz Mountain Industries, Mack-Cali Realty Corporation and SJP Properties are developing office properties along the waterfront.
The vacancy rate in the waterfront market was reported at 4.75 percent early this year by CB Richard Ellis, a real estate services company, which also said the average asking rent increased to $26.23 per square foot in early 1999 from $22.28 at the end of 1997. Statewide, the vacancy rate held steady at 9.7 percent while the average asking rent topped $21 a square foot for the first time since the 1980's.
Speculative office construction is resuming on Long Island, with Mitchell Rechler, executive vice president of Reckson Associates Realty Corporation of Melville, reporting that his firm is planning a 550,000-square-foot project in Melville. The two 275,000-square-foot buildings are to be constructed next to the Long Island Expressway and are scheduled to be occupied in September 2000.
Mr. Rechler said several smaller projects by other companies, totaling several hundred thousand square feet of space, were also under way. He said most of the space available on the Long Island market was divided into small units and big blocks were unavailable.
CB Richard Ellis reported that the overall vacancy rate for Nassau and Suffolk Counties was 7 percent at the end of the first quarter and that company expansion was creating a need for additional office space. Average asking rents in the two counties reached $22.15 per square foot.
In Westchester County, most buildings are being constructed for specific customers, rather than on speculation. The same is true for Fairfield County in Connecticut. Westchester's vacancy rate was 18.7 percent at the end of the first quarter, according to CB Richard Ellis, while Fairfield's was 7.8 percent. The average asking rent in Westchester was $20.94 a square foot, while the average rent in Fairfield was $25.42 a square foot. Both represent a moderate increase over the year-ago rate.
 
Retail: More Interest Off the Beaten Track
As with office tenants, rising rents are forcing retailers to seek out locations on side streets they once would have avoided and consider parts of the city away from more traditional retail areas.
"People no longer feel they absolutely have to be on the main avenues," said Benjamin Fox, a partner in New Spectrum Realty Services, a Manhattan retail brokerage. "We are seeing a lot of activity on side streets now. A lot of secondary spaces that used to stand empty are renting now."
Richard A. Seligman, president of Retail Development Partners of New York, said, "You are hearing a lot of talk about Nolita and NoHo these days," referring to the areas north of Little Italy and north of Houston Street. "They are going there because they don't want to pay $200 a square foot in SoHo."
He said asking rents in prime locations along avenues in SoHo had increased to $175 to $225 a square foot a year from $35 during this decade. "That's where Madison Avenue was seven or eight years ago," he said.
Madison Avenue in the 50's and 60's has, of course, changed as well. Top locations now command $400 to $450 a square foot, Mr. Seligman said.
This is pushing retailers to the outskirts of Manhattan. On the East Side, after decades of delay, parts of the Bridgemarket complex are due to open next month in the vaults under the Queensboro Bridge. The development is to include two restaurants operated by Sir Terence Conran, a Conran home furnishings store and a market-style Food Emporium.
On the West Side, Jeffrey, a clothing store, recently opened in a former warehouse on 14th Street close to the West Side Highway. Brokers say the proprietor, Jeffrey Kalinsky, might be able to be a little aggressive on his pricing because he is paying only $23 to $26 a square foot in rent, compared with the vastly higher rents in more established retail locations.
Big-box retailers, which stock a large variety of a few categories of merchandise, may find opportunities in the old industrial buildings of the West Side as well, said Robert K. Futterman, president of a Manhattan brokerage bearing his name. "Ikea, Home Depot and Costco have been hovering over New York for years," he said. Likely locations, he said, are along 10th and 11th Avenues in the 20's to the 50's.
 
Hotels: 7,500 More Rooms Expected by 2002
Occupancy rates have fallen from last year's record levels and room rates are not increasing as quickly as they were during the last few years, but travelers are still flocking to the city and many new rooms are being built to accommodate them, industry analysts report.
"Occupancy in the first six months was down, although it increased in July," said John A. Fox, a senior vice president with PKF Consulting, a lodging specialist in New York. "New York is clearly past the peak of this cyclical business, but a 79 percent occupancy is not bad."
Mr. Fox noted that four hotels with more than 2,000 rooms are under construction in the city. Three of them, the Sofitel on 44th Street, Planet Hollywood on 47th Street and the Doubletree on 41st Street, are in Times Square. "Between 1999 and 2002, an estimated 7,500 hotel rooms will be added in New York in addition to the 55,000 that exist now," he said.
Much of the weakness in hotel economics is concentrated in the upper end of the market, with travelers evidently balking at paying rates that have shot up quickly, observed Sean Hennessey, director of the hospitality and leisure practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. "The tourist class has held up well, but the deluxe and luxury segments are relatively weaker," he said.
The average daily rate for top-of-the-line deluxe has climbed to $485.86 a night from $355.45 a year ago, while the occupancy rate has fallen to 62.3 percent from 70.6 percent.
In the same period, the average price of a room in tourist hotels has risen at a significantly slower rate, to $119.10 a night from $110.07. Occupancy has slipped, but only a little, to 81.6 percent from 84.3 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The designer Kenneth Cole decided to move his headquarters from 57th and Seventh to 50th and 11th. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Starrett-Lehigh Building far west on 26th, left, where Martha Stewart took 75,000 square feet. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times) Right, Richard A. Seligman, president of a retail brokerage, shown at Bridgemarket site under Queensboro Bridge, notes that such areas as Nolita and NoHo are drawing retailers. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Graphs: "Rents Up" -- Shows average asking rents for all types of offices in midtown Manhattan, from 34th Street to 55th Street. "Vacancies Down" -- Shows vacancy rates for midtown office space from 1991 through August 1999. Data plotted quarterly. (Source: Colliers ABR)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- For Players in Virtual Space, Real Square Footage"
Major deals involving Internet or computer companies that have been announced so far this year. Chart shows tenant, location and square footage of space rented. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: KENNETH COLE PRODUCTIONS INC (58%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); BGC PARTNERS INC (55%); WEST SIDES HOTEL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEST SIDES HOTEL (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (87%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; COLE, KENNETH MARTHA STEWART (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



411 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: The Airport Oh So Close to Home

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: HARRISON

 BODY:
LIKE many other residents here, Sam Fanelli Jr. has a love-hate relationship with Westchester County Airport. When planes soar over his home, Mr. Fanelli curses. But when he goes on vacation with his wife, Elizabeth, he always flies out of Westchester, even though that often means changing planes in Washington.
With a proposal to update the master plan of development for the airport now before the Board of Legislators, expressions of those kinds of mixed feelings are likely to become louder. 
 "I use this airport as much as I can," Mr. Fanelli said after he and Mrs. Fanelli returned from a vacation a week ago. He said he would rather travel from the clean, quiet and uncrowded terminal here than from one of the New York metropolitan region's more congested airports.
But talk to Mr. Fanelli about additional flights, bigger planes or any other expansion plans, and he answers: "No, leave what we have as it is! The airport is already too big, much bigger than I ever wanted."
In many ways his sentiments reflect the Board of Legislators' views. But business interests, while not clamoring for a major expansion, would at least like more parking and more hangars for company planes at the 700-acre airport.
The airport did grow just four years ago when a $21 million, 41,000-square-foot brick terminal was built to replace a rustic Quonset hut that served for decades as the passenger terminal. .
Now Democrats and Republicans are banding together, supporting a policy of no more growth.
Last year County Executive Andrew J. Spano rescinded a plan by his predecessor, Andrew P. O'Rourke, to build a 900-square-foot lounge for business travelers. Calling the project a "stealth expansion," Mr. Spano said the $413,000 executive lounge was not needed. Mindful of the impact of noise on residents, he has espoused a "good neighbor policy" when it comes to the airport.
Other environmental concerns are also an issue. Legislator Paul J. Noto, a Republican representing sections of this town, said that if the county were to build an airport today, it would never locate it so close to the Kensico Reservoir and the Rye Lake Watershed.
"We need to step up groundwater monitoring, limit commercial flights, maintain a voluntary curfew at night on flights and in every way consider the impact on the neighborhood," he said.
Not everyone, however, is in agreement that no growth is the preferred option. Some of those who favor at least some expansion, like Harold E. Vogt, the chief executive officer of the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, have accused politicians of being motivated by panic.
"A lot of it is hysteria," Mr. Vogt said. "It's out of proportion to reality."
Mr. Vogt said that fears of chemical contamination from increased airport use have been overstated. Of particular concern is the impact of runoff like de-icing fluid on Kensico Reservoir, which supplies the county with 85 percent of its drinking water and also provides a majority of New York City's water. "There are ways to control chemical use, ways to collect runoff," he said.
Georgia G. Kalayjian-Murphy, the president and chief operating officer of the Westchester Convention and Visitors Bureau, said reason had not always ruled when it comes to the airport.
"It's a very sensitive and touchy subject in a county that prides itself on being suburban," she said. "From my point of view, it's a real balancing act between the tourists' needs, for example, and maintaining the quality of life, which is one of the main reasons the tourists come here in the first place."
The County Executive echoed that point of view, observing that many businesses come to Westchester because of the quality of life. Economic development, he has said, is tied to maintaining that quality and not allowing the county to become just another crowded metropolitan outpost.
But the answer to the question of whether Westchester is attracting or repelling new business depends largely on whom one asks.
Edward Doyle Sr., the head of the 35,000-member Westchester-Putnam Building and Construction Trades, an umbrella group for 17 construction unions, said that the county was in effect "chasing business out of here" by its no-growth policy at the airport.
Mr. Doyle used as an example a controversy last year during which the county and environmental groups eventually thwarted General Electric's efforts to build a hangar for some of its planes.
Mr. Doyle predicted that General Electric would end up going someplace else, like Stewart Airport in Newburgh.
General Electric currently has a lease with Westchester Airport and a spokesman would not not comment on future plans. "And eventually that kind of thing is going to have a domino effect," he said. "Other corporations, too, will leave."
The commercial airlines at the Westchester airport include U.S. Airways, Delta, Northwest, American and Continental Airlines. Affiliated airlines are Comair, Comutair and Business Express.
Corporations with a total of 104 private aircraft at the airport are International Business Machines, Pepsico, Philip Morris, Seagrams and Xerox.
"Everything at this airport is a hassle because the politicians are deathly afraid of losing votes," Mr. Doyle said. "Their jobs are on the line."
Earlier this year, Mr. Noto, who is also the Board of Legislators' minority leader, mounted the campaign to have the master plan updated, observing that the last revision came in 1986. "A lot of things have happened in the 13 years since the master plan was completed," he said. "We have a much more sophisticated understanding of the environment and its fragile points. We've also had large-scale residential and commercial shifts near the airport. The only thing we haven't had was an up-to-date planning document that integrates all these factors."
If the County Board approves the expenditure, $500,000 would be allocated to hire consultants and to gather information to revise the master plan.
Of that money, $400,000 would come from the Federal Aviation Administration and another $50,000 from the state's Department of Transportation. And the other $50,000 comes from the county.
Mr. Noto said that a vote on proceeding with a master plan will take place within a few weeks. Then work on the plan would follow, possibly requiring a year to complete.
Built in 1942, the airport was intended as an Army Air Corps base to be used to protect New York City in World War II. In 1947 the airport, called Rye Lake Airport, and surrounding property were handed over to the county for commercial and civil aviation use and renamed Westchester County Airport. The armed services still maintained a presence at the airport with a small Air National Guard contingent occupying its northeast corner.
In 1981, because of noise concerns and the addition of larger aircraft, the Air National Guard moved from Westchester to Stewart Airport.
Westchester County Airport is the New York metropolitan area's busiest suburban airport with about 85 scheduled arrivals and departures daily and 1.08 million passengers in 1997. By comparison, MacArthur Airport in Islip on Long Island has an average of 57 flights a day and handled 1.04 million passengers in 1997. Stewart International Airport which has 73 flights a day on average, served 843,000 passengers in 1997.
By contrast, the area's three large airports each handle about 27 million passengers a year, said Jeffrey Zupan, a senior fellow in transportation for the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit planning, research and civic organization in Manhattan.
When it comes to cargo traffic, Newark and Kennedy International -- not La Guardia, which is limited by its size -- handle the bulk, Mr. Zupan said.
Figures from the county's Department of Transportation show that Westchester Airport operations have actually decreased since 1985. For example, there were 245,140 flights out of the airport in 1985 compared with 196,426 in 1997. Wasi Talib, a spokeswoman for the department, said the decreased numbers reflected larger planes that were able to carry more passengers.
Mr. Zupan said that Stewart, Westchester and MacArthur Airports serve "basically in reliever roles" to the major airports and were unlikely to grow much more, although Stewart has "a tremendous potential as a cargo airport" because of its large area and proximity to both the New England Thruway and Interstate 84.
Westchester handles no cargo. Susan Tolchin, a spokeswoman for the County Executive, said that, among other things, the voluntary curfew on flights between 11:30 P.M. and 6:30 A.M. precluded cargo handling, which is mostly done at night.
While Mr. Noto predicted that the Board of Legislators would draw up a master plan that restricts new growth at the airport -- "Both parties and the County Executive are in agreement on this," he said -- other people are not so sure.
Ross J. Pepe, the president of the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley, a professional and trade group representing 500 businesses, said he would press for a middle ground. "It will never become a major jetport," he said. "But this hysteria should not govern. Our view is that the airport should at least accommodate the level of business that exists in the county and not be restrictive."
And Joseph Tosto, the owner of Travel Network in Yorktown, said: "Maybe just a little bigger would be good, at least for those who don't want to travel to Queens or Long Island or Newark. Even a little expansion could go a long way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction on a taxiway in the distance at the airport in Harrison. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 6); Westchester County Airport covers 700 acres and has about 85 scheduled arrivals and departures a day and serves about a million passengers a year who pass through the terminal building, above. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SOUTH AFRICA (61%); WESTCHESTER CONVENTION&VISITORS BUREAU (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER CONVENTION&VISITORS BUREAU (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WESTCHESTER COUNTY AIRPORT; AIRPORTS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS AIRPORTS (95%); COUNTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AIRLINES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CURFEW (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA SAM FANELLI JR (82%); HAROLD E VOGT (62%); EDWARD DOYLE SR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



412 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3139 words

HEADLINE: As an Industry Matures, East End Vineyards Yield a Burst of Growth

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
PRACTICED in professional optimism, the East End's winemakers are forecasting a good vintage: the earlier drought, which hurt many crops, benefited grapes, reducing crop loads and the volume of wine but intensifying flavors.
But at this moment, the greenbacks seem just as plentiful and ready for picking as the early-ripening red and white grapes now being gathered from the vineyards. Investment, growth and diversification are the main reasons why Patrick Wiles, an officer at First Pioneer Farm Credit's office in Riverhead, said that in 1999 the Long Island wine industry has experienced a "watershed year." 
 The 26-year-old industry's value seems to be multiplying as a result of a burst of estate sales, increased purchases of farmland for planting and wineries, rising production of wine, expanded tasting-room and off-premises sales and a swelling volume of day-tripping consumers.
Since January the sales of three estates -- Corey Creek for $1.5 million and Laurel Lake and Peconic Bay for $2 million each -- plus possibly pricier sales ahead for Bidwell and Hargrave have focused the wine world's attention on Suffolk County's investment potential.
"If you look at the common denominator of the purchasers, you see that they have deep pockets," said Charles Massoud, a proprietor of Paumanok and president of the Long Island Wine Council, an organization of owners. "It's very good news. People used to come out with wish lists, and now they come out with to-do lists. The banks want to lend money and are after us."
Because of the proximity and gaze of New York City, the world's most diverse wine market, the well-publicized North Fork, home to 21 of the Island's 25 producers, has become the most conspicuous Eastern wine destination, outdistancing larger competitors: the Finger Lakes upstate and Virginia.
This would not have surprised Henry Hudson, the first European to discover the Island, a 17th-century Arcadia of forests, fruit trees and wild grapevines husbanded by the longest, warmest growing season in the Northeast.
Today, first-time wine travelers discover an agricultural North Fork, under development pressures, that is striving to remain a sliver of semirural Iowa, with farm stands, iconic potato barns (some gussied up into wineries), plush-green and sod-busted fields, church suppers, Colonial headstones, whitewashed Tom Sawyer picket fences and Wagnerian sunsets.
The North Fork is less a wine region than a wine neighborhood, with its clustered producers only a few minutes' drive apart along two roads, Routes 25 and 48. Locals prefer it that way. "The challenge for us," said Mr. Massoud of Paumanok, "is how do we raise the sophistication of the North Fork without changing its character?"
Mr. Wiles, whose cooperative specializes in agricultural loans, said the East End wine industry had matured. "It has perhaps $25 million a year in income from sales and services such as vineyard management," he said. "I'd guess that 10 years ago the number would be half of that."
"Today, most of the people are versed in business," he said. "Most were dreamers 12 years ago; it looked like a novelty investment then, with a lot of tax-shelter interest. Today there is a tremendous amount of reinvestment."
 
Adding Even More Acres Or Starting With a Few
The prime example is Dr. Herodotus Damianos of Pindar Vineyards, Long Island's biggest wine estate. This summer, he spent almost $5 million to buy 267 acres of farmland in Southold to plant grapes, increasing his holdings by two-thirds.
The industry is also being remodeled by new enterprises like the $6.1 million Raphael winery, which is under construction; by heavily bankrolled vineyards like the newcomer Martha Clara Vineyards, owned by the former baker Robert Entenmann; the even newer operation being launched by the Florida-based entrepreneur Leslie Alexander, and by surprising gambles like an 11-acre pinot noir planting by Russell McCall, an Atlanta-based fine-wine merchant.
Dr. Damianos, who in addition to Pindar also owns the large-scale Duck Walk on the South Fork, seems undaunted by the wine business's famously low return on investment, often less than 10 percent in a particularly risk-riddled economic sphere. Acquisitions since Jan. 1, 1998, have elevated his holdings to 667 acres, 425 of them under vines. The No. 2 landowner, Macari, does not come close: 360 acres, 150 planted.
With 19 grape varieties planted and 17 kinds of wine for all wallets made last year, Pindar produced 63,000 cases, hopes for 70,000 this year and projects a down-the-road ceiling of 150,000.
But small-scale producers might proliferate, too, if a project being developed by Russell Hearn is successful. He and two investors are planning the Island's first full-time custom-production winery. Called the Premium Wine Group and based in Mattituck, it would make wine for label owners who raise or buy grapes but have no wineries. (Mr. Hearn, as a consultant, will remain Pellegrini's winemaker.)
Mr. Hearn hopes for customers like Bruce and Christiane Schneider, owners of Schneider Vineyards, whose chardonnay, cabernet franc and merlot wines have received favorable reviews. The young couple are what the French call negociants: They buy grapes and hire others, Bedell and Palmer, to make the wine. (In one of its initial investments, the new, profit-oriented venture fund of Columbia University's Business School is putting $250,000 in the Schneiders' business plan: the acquisition of possibly 20 acres this year and planting of 7 next spring.)
"I am Hearn's first customer," said Dr. Charles Sherwood Smithen, a clinical cardiologist in Manhattan who bought a 40-acre farm in Mattituck in the mid-1990's and, beginning in 1996, planted chardonnay and merlot. Pellegrini, among others, has bought his grapes.
"Our thought was to be an artisanal boutique vineyard," Dr. Smithen said. "For the time being we will not build a winery. Russell will make our first wine, this year, at Paumanok: 600 cases of chardonnay." The label will be Sherwood House Vineyards.
The conventional wisdom that chardonnay will remain the Island's white-wine calling card suddenly seems challenged. Four producers -- Martha Clara, Macari, Pindar and Bedell -- have recently issued promising viogniers. And while merlot is the signature red wine, stand-alone bottlings of cabernet franc suggest that this Loire grape, managed properly, can rival merlot in prettiness and outdo it in depth.
Consumer curiosity and excitement that in 1998 focused on the opening of the ranch-size, spare-no-expense Francophile Macari Vineyards has swiveled to its neighbor, Martha Clara, which is based on parcels that form Mr. Entenmann's 175-acre Big E Farm (with 112 acres under vines) in Mattituck and Riverhead.
Mr. Entenmann hopes to break ground for a $4 million, 25,000-square-foot tasting room in Mattituck next spring, to be followed by a $2 million or $3 million winery with a 20,000- or 25,000-case capacity. His first release, the '98 viognier, is scheduled for October.
The 250 cases were made by Roman Roth at the very European Wolffer Estate/Sagpond Vineyard in Sagaponack, on the South Fork, where he is the general manager. Mr. Entenmann hopes to produce 3,000 cases of various wines from the '99 vintage there.
His vineyard crew has planted 12 grape varieties, he said: In addition to viognier, such whites as chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, semillon, riesling and gewurztraminer, and such reds as merlot, cabernet franc, cabernet sauvignon, syrah, petit verdot and malbec.
Mr. Entenmann said that one reason he shifted from raising and training thoroughbred horses to wine was to put his daughter Jacqueline, who is to be married next month, "into a family-type business -- that's the way I grew up."
"There is romance to the wine business," he said. "There is no money. The distributors make it all. I think we can begin to make money in 8 or 10 years."
All the East End wineries are privately held and reluctant to discuss their profit pictures.
But clearly it's not all big budgets. Stephen Dzugas-Smith has a day job as a maintenance man at a nursing home; his wife, Donna, is the manager of Dzugas Vineyards, perhaps the Island's least-known wine.
Their 28 acres, financed by a settlement stemming from injuries she suffered in a fall, hold 5 of chardonnay and 5 of merlot, with 16 leased to an organic farmer. Bedell produces and bottles their chardonnay and buys grapes from them. Their '95 chardonnay is sold at the tiny winery Ternhaven Cellars in Greenport and a few local stores. The three subsequent vintages, at 400 cases each, await release, and a goal of 1,000 cases a year has been set.
They are spending $200,000 to build a tasting room on their Southold tract, with hopes of eventually adding a winery that will better support them and their three youngsters.
"We're a farm family, not rich or anything," Mrs. Dzugas-Smith said. "Living in the country is the best of all possible worlds. We're doing it on a shoestring."
 
A Big Spender Wants A Winery Close to Home
 High-rolling investors like Mr. Alexander, the owner of the National Basketball Association's Houston Rockets, can finance broader horizons. This summer, Mr. Alexander, who lives in Boca Raton, Fla., bought two farms totaling 86 acres, in Cutchogue and Mattituck, for a reported $1,481,500, and said he expected to close soon on a third, 68-acre farm in Mattituck.
With no commercial background in wine -- "I buy it and drink it," he said -- he plans to start planting vines next spring, to erect a winery and "to make great wine." What is the motivation? "I am building a home in Southampton," he said in a telephone interview. "I wanted a winery close to where I live, for the enjoyment of it."
Russell McCall, drawing on 30 years' experience in the wine business, is taking a different risk. Last year, he spent about $750,000 for 52 acres opposite Pellegrini, on Route 25 in Cutchogue, and has planted 11 acres of pinot noir, Burgundy's red grape, along with 10 of merlot.
Even in Burgundy, the pinot noir grape is notoriously mercurial, and the Georgia-based Mr. McCall appreciates the odds. A member of a fourth-generation Cutchogue family, he owns Atlanta Wholesale Wine, which imports and distributes premium wines. In Cutchogue, he said, "We are experimenting with four clones of pinot noir that were most successful in California and Oregon."
Finding land is getting harder, said David J. Saland, a Jamesport real estate broker. "Eighty percent of all farmland has been snapped up," he said. "A year or two ago, we had 40 to 50 farms available, and now we have 5." Flat farmland can start at $18,000 an acre and with houses and barns rise to $30,000, he said.
Alex and Louisa Hargrave, whose grapevine plantings in potato fields in 1973 also planted the seeds of the modern industry, decline to comment on negotiations for their 84 acres (20 owned and under vines), which have been for sale since early in 1998. The original asking price was $3.3 million, and the couple is said to be now asking more than $4 million.
Ever since Jess Jackson, the empire-building owner of Kendall-Jackson, visited Palmer last year and overnight wooed its winemaker, Dan Kleck, to Southern California, nonstop rumors of Jackson sightings, or interest, or negotiations, or land acquisition, have drip-irrigated North Fork speculation.
"Jess has looked at vineyards in New York," James Caudill, a Kendall-Jackson spokesman in Santa Rosa, Calif., confirmed. "But just that: looked. We haven't purchased something. The wines continue to get more notice. Anytime that happens anywhere, we are interested."
The rumors can be read as a collective wish for blue-chip investors like a Jackson, or a renowned French chateau owner, whose prestige might help upgrade the East End industry's image, as the Burgundian producer Robert Drouhin did when he founded an estate in Oregon in 1988.
The influential consultant's role being played by Paul Pontallier, the managing director of Chateau Margaux in Bordeaux, during the development of Raphael, an all-merlot winery scheduled to open next summer, serves that apparent desire.
So does a Chilean consortium's $2 million acquisition of Laurel Lake in July, the first foreign money significantly invested in any New York State wine property. Cesar Baeza, a principal and Hudson Valley vintner who now manages Laurel Lake, said its wines would be marketed worldwide.
 
Local Wine Criticized On Price and Quality
Not everything is coming up roses, however, especially on the price-vs.-value front. A commonly heard notion on- and off-Island is that the wines are second-rank. More than once, Thomas Matthews, who has just been named executive editor of Wine Spectator, has written that they are uneven. For two decades, the outspoken Michael Cinque, owner of Amagansett Wine and Spirits, a carriage-trade store, has heard complaints that local wines are too expensive.
"Somebody comes in with $20 to spend, I don't think Long Island wines," Mr. Cinque said. "I think Spain or Italy or South America.Long Island wines are darn good wines, but maybe they are not the best value for the money." Nonetheless, he said: "I carry 15 to 18 wineries. I sell 1,000 cases of Long Island wine a year."
"They are all new wineries, first-generation," Mr. Cinque said, explaining local prices. "Most wineries in Italy and France have been paid for generations ago. They don't have heavy mortgages and big start-up expenses. And on the East End, everything is expensive."
He also argued that producers say, "If I don't charge high prices, they don't take me seriously," and that "everybody prices wines against his neighbor or the rest of the industry. 'My neighbor charges $25, and my wine is better, so I'll charge $27.' "
Chardonnays may range from $7 to $25, merlots from $13 to $30; Pindar's '95 Mythology, a red blend, costs $37.
As for long-term cellaring, "No wine geeks I know lay in Long Island wines," Mr. Cinque said.
But short-term drinking hands Lenz a promotional strategy.
Since 1976, when in a now-legendary blind tasting in Paris upstart California wines outscored ancien-regime Bordeaux, shocking the wine world, similar contests have become a favorite tactic of American wineries. Call the strategy glitz by association.
For example, Peter Carroll, a Lenz owner, in April sponsored a competition at the American Hotel in Sag Harbor in which the 10 judges were told only that Lenz sparkling, white and red wines were pitted against unidentified French wines in the same categories.
Rigorous wine professionals hold that anything less than a blind tasting can influence a contest outcome. A judge in the Sag Harbor semi-blind tasting might have no trouble guessing which is the Lenz, but might score it generously to avoid wounding his host. That may explain why Lenz's '95 merlot, which costs $40, received an average 92 points while the '95 Chateau Petrus, which costs $950, was awarded 93 points.
"The scores are very close, and one can argue that they are essentially equal," Mr. Carroll wrote. "But an interesting way to reflect on the one-point difference is to ask whether it is worth paying $910 for the extra point!"
The answer, as expressed by wine auctions, seems to be yes. Unlike the great French chateaux, New York State wines are not perceived as time-proven long-term commodities.
"A young Lenz pitted against a young Latour would show better," Mr. Cinque said. "But in 10 years, the Lenz cabernet will be dead, and the Latour will just begin to show."
Or to view the glass as half full, Lenz reds can be good buys today if drunk within a year or two.
Islandwide, although new wine is bubbling in tanks, vats and barrels, the fermentation is not confined to the cellars:
Bedell expects to double the size of its tasting room and expand its barrel cellar this winter. Channing Daughters is experimenting with such early-ripening grapes as dolcetto and pinot grigio, rarities for the East End. Corey Creek's new owner, Michael Lynne, said he was contemplating further investment in the North Fork but declined to give details.
Duck Walk hopes to makes 25,000 cases this year, 2,000 more than last year; it has 68 acres under vines and hopes to have 85 by the end of next year. Gristina has bought 34 adjacent acres to bring its total to 87.
Jamesport is cultivating native yeasts in the winery and vineyard in order to produce wines, especially chardonnay and sauvignon blanc, with enhanced "natural character." Laurel Lake's Chilean owners bought 23 acres, 13 of them planted; it hopes to buy more and to have 38 acres under vines by the end of 2000.
Macari expects to release its first nonvintage sparkling wine soon. Just in time for the harvest, Osprey's Dominion hired a new winemaker, Peter Silverberg, who has spent the last six years as an assistant winemaker at the Golan Heights Winery, for 15 years Israel's top-ranked estate.
Palmer replanted eight acres, added new stainless-steel tanks for its red wines and purchased a new $45,500 press for the current vintage. Last year it made 16,500 cases, and this year hopes for 20,000, en route to an eventual 30,000.
Peconic Bay is converting a storage barn into a 300-barrel fermentation and aging room. "We have initiated more wine-related events for the tourists" and "increased our staffing," it said.
Pellegrini wines are actively distributed in six states, but this month became the first New York State wine marketed in 18 more states and Washington, D.C., through Virtual Vineyards, an Internet company with legal shipping arrangements.
Pugliese is going to double the size of its winery, enlarge the tasting room and build a sparkling-wine cellar.
Except for Italian great-grandfathers with grape presses in their garages, Kurt Eckert, the wine director of Jean-Georges Vongerichten's four Manhattan restaurants, may be the Island's micro Oscar winner. Last year for his "one-barrel project" he bought "one row plus a bit of another" of chardonnay -- "just over 1,000 pounds" -- from the oldest section of Wolffer/Sagpond vines, planted in 1988.
Working with Mr. Roth, the winemaker, he fermented it in a one-year-old French wood barrel to hold down the seasoning -- "I didn't want to plaster over the flavors" with new-oak intensity, he said -- and bottled it in July. Some of the 295 bottles, carrying a Cru Cellars label, will be sold at Jean-Georges for $70 to $75.
If he sold them all, he would clear $14,100. But he is not in it for the money, and plans to use some bottles for promotion.
Still, Mr. Eckert may be gripped by the Mondavi effect. This year, working with the winemaker Larry Perrine at Channing Daughters, he hopes to branch out into cabernet sauvignon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russell Hearn, Pellegrini Vineyard's winemaker, is part of a partnership planning the Island's first full-time custom-production winery. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 16); Ripening grapes at Pellegrini Vineyards, in Cutchogue, whose wine is available in 24 states and Washington, D.C. At Martha Clara Vineyards, in Mattituck, a covering vines with nets to protect the fruit from birds. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "A Sampler of Long Island Wines"
Suffolk County winegrowers' acreage planted in grapevines rose about 48 percent between 1995 and 1999. Overall, at least 1,806 acres of grapes are grown for commercial purposes in Suffolk, including at least 250 acres of grapes cultivated by independent growers, with most fruit being sold to East End Wineries. If nature cooperates, the producers expect the 1999 vintage to yield nearly 16 percent more standard 12-bottle cases then the 1998 vintage.
 
For it's part, Nassau County has 47 acres under vines on the old Brookville property of Banfi Vintners. Chart provides stats for Suffolk County winegrowers. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARM CREDIT SERVICES MISSOURI (57%); FARM CREDIT SERVICES MANDAN (57%); FARM CREDIT SERVICES SOUTHWEST (57%); LONG ISLAND WINE COUNCIL (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND WINE COUNCIL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FORECASTS GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); WINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RIVERS (75%); LAKES (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (66%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, HOWARD G MARTHA CLARA VINEYARDS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



413 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 6; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Dr. Vincent T. DeVita Jr.;
A Doctor at Yale Spends a Lifetime Fighting Cancer

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
THE director of the Yale Cancer Center, Dr. Vincent T. DeVita Jr., is responsible for a large staff of cancer researchers and he spends hours raising money to fund their mission. He said he carefully uses data about cancer to stimulate giving to the center. Dr. DeVita once directed the National Cancer Institute where he found, "the policy was to lump all the incidence and mortality data together and show them both going up. Then when they went to Congress they would say there was an epidemic of cancer, give us more money."
He changed that policy to illustrate good news and bad news. He wanted to show that support was bringing down the incidence of certain types of cancers and asked for more money to battle other forms of cancer. Dr. DeVita, who is known as the discoverer of a cure for lymphoma, has turned his attention to researching drug resistance that requires a strong basic research foundation, huge amounts of money and many researchers. Of his staff of 320, about 120 are engaged in research. 
 Recently, Dr. DeVita discussed cancer and the urgent need for resources to fight it. Following are some excerpts from that conversation:
Q. What's the most common kind of cancer?
A. In the U.S., lung cancer is the most common form in both sexes. gastrointestinal and colorectal cancer are also common for men and women, breast cancer for women and prostate cancer for men. In men, prostate cancer is high especially now that we have screening with the PSA test.
We should look back at the turn of the century as we now get ready to turn another century. If we look at the rise in incidence of cancer the major external factor that caused the rise in the incidence of cancer is the use of tobacco. The incidence of lung cancer and death from lung cancer was very low at the start of the century. Starting in the '20's it began to rise. As cigarette smoking has fallen off, we have seen, and death from lung cancer was very low at the start of the century. Starting in the '20's it began to rise. As cigarette smoking has fallen off, we have seen, 10 years later, the decline of cancer.
In the world population, the commonest form of cancer is stomach and the second-most common is liver.
Q. Are breast cancer rates increasing?
A. Breast cancer rates are relatively flat. From 1980-90, the most recent data, there was an epidemic in breast cancer, but it was not an epidemic it was increased screening. We were picking up cases of breast cancer in earlier stages. Now the mortality for breast cancer is beginning to come down.
It occurs in one out of 11 women if you stop measuring at the age of 70. If you measure up to the age of to age 85 then it becomes one out of eight. It depends on how you want to use statistics. People use statistics for their own purposes.
Q. Can some types of food actually cause cancer?
A. We often fail to actually scale this. If we were to use a thermometer, saccharine would be very low and tobacco use would be through the roof. Nothing in this country carries a higher risk of causing a cancer than tobacco. If people stopped all smoking in 10 years mortality from cancer would drop 40 percent.
About a third of cancers are thought to be related to diet but the association between diet and cancer is often weak and controversial. There is no question that studies show that in women who migrate from Japan to Hawaii the incidence of breast cancer goes up. If they migrate from Hawaii to California the incidence goes up higher. When Italian women who have a relatively low incidence of breast cancer compared to us, migrate to Australia where a lot of Italians do migrate, the incidence of breast cancer goes way up. Australians eat a lot of fatty meat. Italians have a healthy Mediterranean diet.
The data looks like it's probably fat content of the diet. Can you actually reduce the incidence of cancer by reducing fat in diet? There is no real evidence that can happen.
Q. What about chemical causes of cancer?
A. We used to say in Washington that if you take all the chemicals in the environment, for example, nitrates, pesticides, PCBs, industrial chemicals and so forth, those chemicals caused 7 1/2 percent of all cancers. It has been revised downward to 5 percent.
The published perception is just the opposite. Remember Love Canal? News stories used to say "chemicals in Love Canal cause cancer and other diseases." The fact is there was no increase in cancer rates among the residents. There were increased numbers of neurological diseases. The chemicals did damage people. They didn't cause cancer.
Chemicals are not the dominate cause of cancer in this country. Radiation in the environment is actually a bigger risk.
Q. Are there other known causes of cancer?
A. The sleeper is virus. This is a tricky thing. We don't want people to think they can catch cancer. I think in the end we will find that up to a third of all cancers are viral related.
This is where genetic background comes in. Probably for the majority of viruses there is a genetic predisposition to cancer and viruses are just a cofactor in causing cancer.
The hepatitis B virus is probably the major cause of liver cancer. Hepatitis doesn't itself cause cancer, it creates the environment, the damaged liver, so that eventually cancer develops. Liver cancer is the second-commonest cancer in the world. We don't see much in this country.
Vaccines are reemerging as a new tool. They are often being used therapeutically. A person who has cancer gets the vaccine and it makes the disease go away.
Q. Does money buy ideas for identifying and treating cancer?
A. Money is very important. Research is expensive. Many times we have to leave things undone. Here we have $75 million in grants. That's a lot of money. On the other hand, we could take $150 million and spend it well. These are difficult times. We used to have clinical income that supported teaching and research. Now with the changes in the medical economy that support for institutions like ours often dries up.
We spend a lot of time raising money from people interested in cancer research. We get a million dollars from the Federal Government. It comes with lots of strings attached. If you get another idea you don't take the money and move it. If you get $100,000 from an individual and give it to the same program, that flexibility is like an amplifier, like turning on your stereo. The sound goes up five-fold. The structure is in place and the private money can be used to follow exciting new ideas to get data to send into the Federal Government for a new grant.
Congress gives the money with less strings attached to it than an agency which puts more strings on it. Private money is almost invariably less rigid.
There is also a great need today for clinical research support. We need to supply the fiscal support for the doctors who are doing the clinical side of the experiment. That's rapidly disappearing. They are a special breed of investigative oncologists. They are the ones who think experimentally and still provide the highest quality of care.
We are planning a fund to endow clinical investigators. Many of them are forced to leave the academic environment and go into private practice because there is not enough financial support for them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Vincent T. DeVita Jr. has turned his attention to researching drug resistance, something that requires a strong basic research foundation. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (58%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (58%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CANCER CANCER (97%); FUNDRAISING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); PROSTATE DISEASE (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); LUNG CANCER (89%); CARCINOGENS (89%); PROSTATE CANCER (89%); SMOKING (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (85%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (78%); WOMEN (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); EPIDEMICS (75%); LYMPHOMA (73%); 

PERSON: DEVITA, VINCENT T JR (DR); POLK, NANCY VINCENT T DEVITA JR (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



414 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2497 words

HEADLINE: From a Pulpit to a College Presidency

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: OLD WESTBURY

 BODY:
THE busy inner-city streets of Harlem are worlds away from the shady horse trails of the estate country here, but the trip by car takes only about an hour. This week a dynamic leader from Harlem hopes to start making the unusual commute between that capital of American black culture and this Gold Coast enclave of fabled mansions.
He is the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, and he has Governor Pataki's backing to become the next president of the struggling State University of New York College at Old Westbury. The Governor wants the 16 university trustees -- all but one appointed by him -- to ratify that nomination at their meeting on Tuesday. 
 A spokesman for the Governor, Charles Deister, voiced confidence that "Calvin Butts will be the next president of S.U.N.Y-Old Westbury, where he will be an outstanding leader and advocate for a campus that for too long was treated as a stepchild of the S.U.N.Y. system in prior administrations."
Although opposition is brewing on the campus, Dr. Butts has said he was eager to accept the job. "I would say yes," he said when his name surfaced this summer. "I am excited about it." The post has a pay range of $112,000 to $142,000.
This is a turning point both for his career and for the future of the college. Dr. Butts, the pastor of Harlem's legendary Abyssinian Baptist Church, has talked of running for Congress and Mayor of New York City. But now he says he is shifting his focus to academia. And the college, whose very survival has been in jeopardy since it opened as an experimental school in 1968, is rethinking its mission and considering a major expansion under an authorization voted by the Legislature last month.
Something else that Dr. Butts has in common with the college is controversy, although he seemingly thrives on it while the college has been mired in it. One veteran of the faculty for 30 years, Dr. Rosalyn F. Baxandall, chairwoman of American Studies, Media and Communications, said: "Our college was founded by 60's rebels and has rebelled against every president."
This time is no different. Even before Dr. Butts's expected arrival, the college is in an uproar over the lightning speed with which he was nominated last month. College officials skipped the yearlong national talent search and consultation with the faculty and students called for by university procedures. Instead, the selection was made in eight days -- after news reports that Dr. Butts had the inside track.
"They flouted every single guideline," said the chairwoman of the Faculty Senate, Dr. B. Runi Mukherji. The Senate has written to the Governor and college and university officials demanding that they halt to the confirmation and start over with the full process. So far those calls have gone unheeded.
Supporters of Dr. Butts dismiss the procedural objections and contend that he is the perfect choice. "He is extraordinarily gifted," said the chairman of the State University trustees, Thomas Eagan. William R. Howell, chairman of Old Westbury's advisory College Council and of its presidential search committee, said: "We think he's going to be terrific. He's a proven leader, a visionary. Our consultants say we'd be lucky to get him, that he'd be on any short list."
Randy A. Daniels, a State University trustee and friend of Dr. Butts who has been instrumental in pushing his nomination, said: "The issue is not process. The issue is result. The point of the process is to get the best president, and this is the best president."
But some critics say that the designation of Dr. Butts is hardly altruistic. They say he is simply collecting a payback for having crossed political lines to hold prayer breakfasts for Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and endorsing his re-election last year. "He did Pataki a favor," said Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the Manhattan Democratic chairman, "and now Pataki's returning it." Mr. Farrell argued that the Governor's policies have hurt minority residents, "so at the end of the day we see the damage Pataki has done to the community versus his help for the Reverend."
Simultaneous with the dispute over the presidency, critics are also up in arms over a plan to develop a third of Old Westbury's heavily wooded 605-acre campus, originally a baronial estate owned by an heir to the Singer sewing machine fortune, F. Ambrose Clark.
The proposal includes a Nassau County police academy, a criminal justice institute, an equestrian center, a stadium, a sports center, student dormitories, faculty residences, a business institute, a conference center and a day-care center. Proponents say that leases and donations for various projects would generate millions of dollars for the college.
But faculty and student leaders, with environmentalists and civic groups, say such development would ruin valuable open space and threaten the ground water of this state-designated protected area.
The harshest critics say the plan is misleading, was developed secretly, is rife with irregularities and smacks of political cronyism and conflicts of interest. "It smells," said Joseph H. Lorintz, a lawyer and preservationist from Jericho who says he is organizing a broad coalition of opponents. "It's one of the biggest open spaces left in Nassau County, and it's under siege."
Defenders of the plan deny those charges. Mr. Pataki's philosophy is to raise university standards and make it more self supporting, they say; the development will be done with great care and will benefit the college. "The primary goal is to enhance the college," said Mr. Howell. "All this stuff will have a synergistic effect."
For a decade Dr. Butts has headed the Abyssinian Church, a prestigious pulpit once occupied by United States Representative Adam Clayton Powell. But Dr. Butts, 49, has emerged as a leader in his own right. He is known as a magnetic preacher, an outspoken advocate on race relations and an organizer of major community projects. The church, nearly two centuries old, seats 2,000 and has two Sunday services to accommodate the crowds.
"His sermons are carried live on the radio," said Mr. Daniels, a member of the congregation. "Hundreds of visitors come every Sunday from all over the world, even heads of state. He brings to Old Westbury a national reputation. He's an proven fund-raiser, a proven builder, an educational reformer and a successful recruiter. He took over a troubled high school in Harlem and turned it around and worked with Rudy Crew on the Thurgood Marshall Academy. He took over the Harlem Y when it was bankrupt. He founded the Abyssinian development agency. He built the Pathmark on 125th Street, the largest private development in Harlem in 30 years, and is working on an $80 million office complex at 125th and Lenox with Forest City Rattner. He's built senior housing, low income housing and housing for the homeless." Other church programs range from a credit union to AIDS services.
Dr. Butts intends to retain his post atop the Abyssinian empire while taking on the college presidency. "The church is solidly behind him," said Mr. Daniels. "He had a church meeting and outlined his plans. The board of deacons has given him their approval."
Although Dr. Butts's plan to juggle the two positions has raised some eyebrows, Mr. Howell said he was not troubled. "He's going to continue to preach on Sunday," he said, "but he'll be living full time on campus." Mr. Daniels, however, said he expected Dr. Butts to also keep his home in Harlem. Assemblyman Farrell, who counts Dr. Butts as a constituent, said, "It'll be interesting to see which place he'll claim as his residence."
In the past, Dr. Butts has not shied from confrontation. He has jousted with Mayor Edward I. Koch and last year infuriated Mayor Rudolph Giuliani by calling him a racist. But this spring, Dr. Butts upset many other black leaders by publicly embracing Mr. Giuliani at a church in the aftermath of the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man, Amadou Diallo. Mr. Daniels said of Dr. Butts, "Controversy is his forte."
Dr. Butts's prospective tenure at Old Westbury raises the intriguing possibility of extending his activism in politics, religion and race relations to the Long Island arena, while still keeping his power base in Harlem.
But at this delicate juncture, with his nomination pending, Dr. Butts is declining to discuss Old Westbury issues. "I think it's wise for me not to comment any further until there is some decision," he said. "I am not the president, and what my views are and what I might do are of no consequence or substance now. It's kind of premature."
The college, one of the State University's smallest institutions, was created under Governor Nelson Rockefeller. Its mission is to serve nontraditional students, especially women, members of minority groups and adults returning to resume their education.
The school's rocky history began with its inaugural year, when the entering class held sit-ins protesting the curriculum. The president resigned, and the college was reorganized under the recommendations of a special commission. The sporadic disputes over the years include the faculty's vote of no confidence in the last permanent president, Dr. L. Eudora Pettigrew, who left in 1998.
"We've been the lowly stepchild of S.U.N.Y. central for many, many years, neglected and chronically underfunded," said Dr. Mukherji. "Many legislators have told us we were on the hit list to be closed." Even the buildings are neglected. The Academic Village, constructed of concrete slabs, resembles a drab military bunker set in a splendid greensward.
But many people on campus resent much of the criticism directed at the college, like Mr. Daniels's calling it "a school that is failing" and saying that "we're saving an institution." Dr. Mukherji said: "I think we've been basically successful in fulfilling our mission. We have a large variety of ethnic representation on the faculty and the highest minority enrollment in all of S.U.N.Y." Old Westbury also boasts of having the highest percentage of its faculty honored as distinguished service professors in the state.
Old Westbury has 3,400 students and an annual budget of $45 million. Its admission requirements are modest: average grades of 80 or combined college entrance examination scores of 1000. Three-fourths of the students are commuters -- some following the same trek Dr. Butts plans to make. About 44 percent come from Nassau County, 22 percent from Suffolk, 30 percent from New York City and the remaining 4 percent from elsewhere. The racial breakdown is 36 percent white, 28 percent black, 15 percent Hispanic, 7 percent Asian and 13 percent unspecified. Women account for 57 percent. Ages range from 17 to 71.
"We're not changing the mission or turning our backs on it, but we are broadening it," said Mr. Howell, the council chairman: "We've got to be able to find our place in the marketplace and get more students."
But critics say they fear that Old Westbury's traditional role will be gutted. The chief justice of the Student Government Association, Owen R. Thompson, said he was dubious of Dr. Butts. "He's friends with Giuliani and Pataki. What better way to get rid of minorities than with another minority?"
The land issue has also raised suspicions. The plan was posed as a way of "preserving open space and historic buildings." Critics say they were disturbed to find a provision added to the legislation that authorized the Old Westbury Foundation, an affiliated agency that would control the land deals, to "stimulate the economy, both locally and throughout New York State." The legislation, appended to the state budget, was co-sponsored by Senator Carl L. Marcellino, a Republican from Oyster Bay, and Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, a Democrat from North Hempstead.
Critics say the plan was developed secretly -- even without the knowledge of the interim president, W. Hubert Keen -- by a former Pataki campaign fund-raiser, using unauthorized payments to hire an unapproved consultant, without competitive bids. They also question the propriety of an anonymous $113,00 donation to the foundation that was revealed to have come from a major contractor, Frederick DeMatteis, who they say wants to get work on campus projects. He did not return a call seeking comment.
"There are many dots on our radar, and when you connect them, they appear very ominous," said Dr. Mukherji.
Mr. Daniels and others heatedly deny improprieties and say that Dr. Keen was well aware of the evolving plans but changed his story to capitalize on the land issue in his unsuccessful bid to compete with Dr. Butts for the permanent appointment as president. Dr. Keen has developed a rapport with many students and professors, winning him considerable support on campus.
"There's a lot of misinformation being put out there by faculty members who supported the other candidate," Mr. Daniels said. He dismissed Dr. Keen's claim of being kept in the dark. "What you are hearing now is 180 degrees from what he told us," he said. "What we are seeing now is really duplicitous." Dr. Keen declined to be interviewed.
Dr. Butts's odyssey to Old Westbury actually began with his pursuit of a part-time teaching post. After talking with Mr. Daniels and visiting the campus, his aspirations grew. "This was my idea," said Mr. Daniels. His closeness to Dr. Butts has given pause to critics who say the two are too intertwined. Besides being a parishioner, friend and a university trustee, Mr. Daniels also serves as a senior vice president of the Empire State Development Corporation, where Dr. Butts serves on the board as a Pataki appointee.
Most critics hesitate to attack Dr. Butts himself. "He's very bright and charismatic and has enormous skills and in fact may be the best person," said Dr. Mukherji. "That's not the issue. The issue is we have a right to help choose our president." Following a flawed selection process could unnecessarily damage Dr. Butt's credibility, she said.
But another professor disagreed. "We've had several legal searches and haven't gotten very distinguished presidents," said Dr. Baxandall. "I wish the faculty would give him a chance. Supposedly he has connections, and we need somebody with connections."
Despite the campus turmoil, the final decision will be up to the trustees, where no real resistance to Dr. Butts has emerged publicly. One member, Candace de Russy, who helped draft the presidential search guidelines, expressed "grave concern" about the process but added that her concern in no way reflected on Dr. Butts.
A trustee who lives near the campus, Dr. Harvey F. Wachsman of Upper Brookville, said he was disturbed about the land proposal. "I don't want to give it away," he said. "I don't want to rent it out. I want it used for the school in a positive way." But he had no reservations about Dr. Butts. "I love Calvin Butts," he said. "He's a super capable guy, in every way. He's just the right guy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The State University of New York at Old Westbury, whose mission is to serve untraditional students. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 17); The Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT OLD WESTBURY UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT OLD WESTBURY UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%); 

PERSON: BUTTS, CALVIN O 3D (REV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LAMBERT, BRUCE CALVIN O BUTTS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



415 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Chappaqua, N.Y.;
Fine Schools, and a Feel of New England

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN 

 BODY:
ATTRACTED by a school system with a national reputation, a 50-minute commute to midtown Manhattan and the prospect of living in rustic neighborhoods with the feel of rural Vermont, young families are joining waiting lists for houses in Chappaqua.
But success has a price, and Chappaqua, nine miles north of White Plains in the center of Westchester County, is struggling to manage the growth problems that the hamlet's popularity and an increasingly youthful demographic base have created. 
 "We're trying to remain a little town and to remain low key -- even though we're not," said Marion S. Sinek, Deputy Supervisor of the Town of New Castle, which governs the hamlet.
Chappaqua became a national household word recently with the announcement that President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, a probable United States Senate candidate from New York, have a contract to buy a five-bedroom, 110-year-old Dutch colonial farmhouse on Old House Lane.
Numerous additions have created a gracious 5,232-square-foot home with French windows, large formal entertainment rooms and a master bedroom suite overlooking a pool. The 1.1-acre site has picturesque gardens and a 1,180-square-foot barn.
Most residents have greeted the news with the satisfaction that the Clintons' move confirms their own choice of community, amid some concerns that the first family's presence will increase already heavy burdens on roads and services.
Housing prices, as well as property taxes, are at their highest levels in history and climbing, traffic bottlenecks downtown are legion and school enrollments are bulging. The library has proposed an $8.2-million expansion, playing fields are scarce, and children hoping to join after-school ballet and art classes sponsored by the town have to enter a lottery.
"The booming economy is what's squeezing us and the school district," said Town Supervisor Clinton B. Smith. The arrival of the first family is "a temporary flurry," Mr. Smith said, noting that "we have a lot of people here with a lot of wealth and celebrity who think they are important already."
Hoping to control what Robert Kirkwood, chairman of the Town Planning Board, called "a furious pace of development," the board now has the authority to mandate cluster zoning, is considering stricter environmental regulations and has taken steps to acquire open space for public use.
While fewer large subdivisions are being built, Mr. Kirkwood said, residents are eagerly subdividing oversized lots to take advantage of a sizzling market. "You can't blame people for trying to maximize their returns," Mr. Kirkwood said, "but this 'shoehorn' phenomenon is putting tremendous pressure on the community's infrastructure." Despite outcries, town officials recently reduced the number of nonresident parking permits at the Chappaqua railroad station from 75 to 50 and are working with state transportation officials to relieve downtown traffic congestion, which often makes Greeley Avenue impassable, especially during commuter rush hours and on Saturdays, when working couples shop.
"People are moving up here for reasons far beyond our control," Mr. Smith said, driving up property values and increasing the town's reliance on property taxes. "The biggest job we have is accomodating this growth in town while maintaining the aspects we all like," he added.
The most critical growth issue currently facing Chappaqua is finding space for a new school. Spiraling enrollments have forced the vaunted school system into a desparate search for additional space in a community with little to spare. Despite overwhelming support for a new school, no one wants it in their neighborhood, school officials agree.
THE Clinton's new home is scarcely half a mile south of the Horace Greeley High School, one of the primary sites being considered for a new school despite opposition from those who fear additional traffic on Route 117 and the elimination of badly needed playing fields.
Admitting there is no obvious solution for a new school site, Dr. Donald C. Parker, Superintendent of Schools, promised a decision by spring. "Everyone's bumping up against each other," he said, noting that high school classes were already sharing rooms while some portable classrooms are being used in the lower grades.
The current school population in the district is 3,789, but it is expected to rise to 4,500 by 2008, a record enrollment. Space problems have not affected the education program, which continues to receive praise both for the breadth and depth of the curriculum and strong community support.
In May, Chappaqua residents overwhelmingly voted for a $53.9-million school budget, the 20th straight year a spending plan has been approved the first time around.
Since 1994, an annual investment in technology -- now at $1.7 million and scheduled to continue at that level for the next two years -- has put 1,000 computers in the system's five schools and allows elementary school children to deliver multimedia presentations. Each school has its own Web site, and three full-time faculty members coach teachers and develop technology lessons for students. Students in grades 3 through 8 participate in Socratic seminars, discussing problems Dr. Frederick Wilhelm, principal of Westorchard Elementary School, described as "the kinds of issues typical of a college philosophy class."
Among course offerings at the Horace Greeley High School are a nonfiction film course and a three-year science research program. Of the 231 members of the Class of 1999, 95 percent are attending 133 different colleges. Median S.A.T. scores for the class were 600 in verbal, and 620 in math, compared with statewide median scores of 490 and 500, respectively.
Chappaqua, an Algonquin word meaning either "running water" or "laurel swamp," began as a Quaker farming community whose inhabitants built a Meeting House in 1753, the oldest building in New Castle and still in regular use.
The community grew slowly, protected by the presence of large country estates owned by wealthy New Yorkers and by the difficulty of farming the rocky, swampy soil.
Horace Greeley, editor of The New York Tribune, arrived in Chappaqua in 1853, determined to farm the inferior land. In 1872, he introduced the community to Presidential politics when he ran unsuccessfully for President against Ulysses S. Grant. Greeley, whose statue stands just off the Saw Mill River Parkway, owned much of the land in the present downtown center of Chappaqua, and everything from the high school to the local taxi service is named after him. Town officials recently loaned the New Castle Historical Society $500,000 to acquire the Horace Greeley House, which was threatened by development.
In 1979, the house on King Street now undergoing restoration, the railroad station plaza, the Church of St. Mary the Virgin and Greeley's concrete barn, one of the first in the country, were all placed on the National Register of Historic Places as part of the Greeley Thematic Group of Buildings.
As the town struggles to preserve its history and control land use, real estate brokers say the price of home ownership continues to rise. "Housing rates will continue to go up because we don't have any, and it's not because of the Clintons," said Bonnie Golub, an agent with Holmes & Kennedy.
Joanne Georgiou, an agent with Houlihan/ Lawrence agrees. "I have almost no inventory," said Mrs. Georgiou, who represented the seller in the Clinton transaction. "I have an inventory of buyers and a waiting list for houses in all price ranges, including multimillion-dollar homes."
Less than 100 homes are currently on the market, including a few at Hardscrabble Lake, the newest and largest subdivision in the area, where the Glickenhaus/Doynow development has created 93 lots in the Town of Mount Pleasant.
Buyers can choose from one of 12 colonial models ranging in price from $900,000 to $1.3 million and designed by a local architect, Carol J.W. Kurth. Most of the homes are in the Chappaqua school district.
On a hill above the Clinton property, the Stone Hill Development with 12 homes on 43 acres is currently under construction. The homes, beginning at $2 million, went on sale in June and five on two to six acres remain.
Homes in subdivisions are not typical in the hamlet where most residences are individually built. Many line hilly, circuitous streets in heavily forested areas bordered by stone walls. Expensive homes costing more than $1 million are often found next to more modest ones, said Ms. Golub of Holmes & Kennedy, noting that "that's what Chappaqua is about."
With the exception of Hardscrabble Lake, most areas of town depend on septic systems and have no sidewalks or streetlights.
The rural feel is what brought Leslie and Eli Richman and their two children, Hanna, 5, and Jonathan, 4, from their Upper West Side apartment in Manhattan to a four-bedroom split-level home on Chappaqua's west side three years ago.
"If we were going to move out of the city," Ms. Richman said, "we wanted a real country feel." They found it when they bought their house with its one-acre property adjacent to the 55-acre Wagon Road Camp owned by the Children's Aid Society.
The Richmans founded and co-own Ovenarts Bakery in lower Manhattan, which Ms. Richman called one of the largest baked- from-scratch commercial bakeries in the New York area.
"Chappaqua can be very soothing," Ms. Richman said, "but it can also be very intense. Everyone is so nice, but people are very competitive. There are a lot of high-powered people here with money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Statue of Horace Greeley off Saw Mill River Parkway, left. Homes on rolling landscape off Deerfield Road fetch around $800,000. Playground of Bell Middle School and intersection of Greeley Avenue and King Street in downtown Chappaqua. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Market" -- 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial at 8 Pine View Road, $379,900. 3-bedroom, 3-bath converted barn, silo dining room at 11 Ridge Road, $619,000.
4-bedroom, 5-bath colonial, slate roof at 1 Kittle Road, $995,000. (Statistics are for the Town of New Castle, 80 percent of whose residents live in the Chappaqua school district.)
 
POPULATION: 17,798 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 23.1 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $135,495 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $585,000.
TAX ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $17,500.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $475,000.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $454,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CONDO: $252,000.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 38 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 50 minutes on Metro-North express, $7.50 one way, $163 monthly.
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $14,193.
CODES: Area, 914; ZIPs, 10504, 10510, 10514, 10520, 10546, 10549, 10562, 10570.
GOVERNMENT: Town Supervisor (Clinton B. Smith, Democrat), 2-year elected term; 4 council members elected to staggered 2-year terms.
ONE-PARTY RULE: For 12 years, Democrats have dominated the Town Board. All five members are Democrats and, for the first time in memory, there are no contests in November. Marion S. Sinek, the Deputy Supervisor, and a former president of the New York State League of Women voters, will simply replace outgoing Supervisor Clinton B. Smith, a situation she calls "spooky." Single-party rule does not make Mr. Smith happy. "That no Republicans are running for office this year," he said, "is one of the great disappointments of modern life. What does it say for participatory democracy?"
 
Map of Chappaqua, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: B SMITH'S (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); ZONING (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



416 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Mandating Web Sites Is Sought

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

 BODY:
As a high school principal, Gerald J. Luongo quickly became aware of the value of the computer in education. As a mayor, he also saw its usefulness. So, about four years ago, he created a Web site for his community, Washington Township in Gloucester County.
The site (http://twp.washington. nj.us) provides a history of the township, directory of officials and services, schedule of governmental meetings and community events, listing of local restaurants and entertainment and information on the park system and economic development. 
 Washington Township is far from unique. More than two-thirds of New Jersey's 321 municipalities have Web sites with information that residents historically received in the mail on bulletin boards at town hall.
Now Mayor Luongo, who is also a Republican assemblyman from Gloucester and Camden Counties, has introduced a bill that, if approved by the Legislature, would mandate that all of the state's municipalities set up Web sites.
"We need to have a more informed public, especially when it comes to school budgets," said Mr. Luongo, a retired principal of Vineland High School.
The Internet is a faster and more accessible way to get this information, he said. And a good Web site can also enhance a community's image. He says it helped give a sense of identity to the 50,000 residents in his town, a 23-square-mile community with more than six ZIP codes.
He is convinced that Washington Township's Web site, which gets about 300 visits a day, has helped spur economic growth, produce $48 million in new tax ratables, and attract new residents.
The bill is currently in committee, and its chance for passage is uncertain. For now, there is no similar measure in the Senate. Assemblyman Luongo said he would not push for passage of the bill until Jan. 1, when local governments have resolved the Y2K computer threat.
The proposed measure, which would provide a $1 million appropriation for towns to hook into the New Jersey government's server, has drawn a mixed reaction. The League of Municipalities, though it favors municipal Web sites, opposes mandating them because the cost could be prohibitive for some towns.
"There's a significant cost to maintain a Web site," said William G. Dressel Jr., the league's executive director.
Mr. Dressel said the organization's Web site got 9,000 visits a month, which required a person working full time to keep information current.
Maintaining a Web page can range from $20 a month for the simplest to several thousand dollars for the most complex, and outside consultants can earn at least $100 an hour, according to technology experts. Many sites carry advertising by local merchants to help defray costs. But Mr. Luongo said the cost of maintaining a Web site would cost towns no more than $250 to $500 a year.
And some officials, like Councilman James Everett Clayton, who is in charge of the Web site in Point Pleasant, in Ocean County, (http:// www.ptboro.com) think the savings would outweigh the costs.
"People who can't get in to governmental offices during regular hours can go online after work," Mr. Clayton said. He said establishing Web sites would free up municipal employees who normally answer routine questions to do other work.
Students and teachers at Point Pleasant High School helped to design the borough's Web site, and a resident volunteers his time to keep it current, Mr. Clayton said. The borough pays $700 a year to a host server and defrays the cost through local advertising on the Web site.
Municipal Web sites have grown steadily over the last five years, said Michael F. Cerra, senior research associate for the State League of Municipalities, with the most drastic increase in the last year or so.
Mayor Carol A. Spencer of Denville, who is a systems administrator in the information technology division in Morris County, nontheless is opposed to Mr. Luongo's proposal to mandate municipal web sites.
"I think that's the wrong thing to do," Mayor Spencer said. "It's a double-edged sword. It's a great way to communicate to constituents, but it's an expensive way to do it if you don't have the expertise."
Mayor Spencer created the Denville website (http://www.denvillenj.org) in 1996. She said the only cost to the town over the past four years had been $210 to register with the Internet, though she has had to volunteer a great deal of time to keep it up to date.
Assemblyman Luongo said any problems could be worked out. "Every mayor should get on the stick with this," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEB SITES (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CALENDARS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: LUONGO, GERALD J (MAYOR); JAMES, GEORGE GERALD J LUONGO (95%); CAROL A SPENCER (59%); JAMES EVERETT CLAYTON (59%); WILLIAM G DRESSEL JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



417 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 6; Society Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Florence Crisp, Matthew Hruska

 BODY:
Florence Amanda Crisp, a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Sellers L. Crisp of Greenville, N.C., was married yesterday to Matthew Ross Hruska, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Alan J. Hruska of New York. The Rev. Harriet Isbell, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at Ayr Mount, a house museum in Hillsborough, N.C.
Ms. Crisp, 28, is keeping her name. She is to begin next month as an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell, the New York law firm. She graduated magna cum laude from Brown University, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and received her law degree from Yale University. Her father is an orthopedic surgeon at Orthopedics East in Greenville. Her mother, Nelson Blount Crisp, is a partner in Blount, Crisp, Mills & Economos, a law firm in Greenville. 
 Mr. Hruska, 29, is a freelance graphic designer and painter in New York. He is also a guitar player, most recently with Fifty Feet Tall, a rock band. He graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design. His mother, Laura Hruska, is the chief executive of Soho Press, a book publisher in New York. His father is a partner in Cravath, Swaine & Moore, the New York law firm.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (91%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (91%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS ORTHOPEDICS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (69%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (56%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: CRISP, FLORENCE AMANDA; HRUSKA, MATTHEW ROSS FLORENCE AMANDA CRISP (76%); SELLERS L CRISP (74%); ALAN J HRUSKA (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



418 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Caitlin Simpson and Scott Vicary

 BODY:
Caitlin Fiona Simpson, an economist, was married yesterday to Scott Charles Vicary, a financial analyst. The Rev. Donald Davis, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at Woodend, the Audubon Naturalist Society's headquarters in Chevy Chase, Md.
Ms. Simpson, 32, is keeping her name. She works at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Silver Spring, Md., where she studies the economic impact of climatic conditions. Mr. Vicary, 35, works at Electrotek Concepts, a consulting company in Arlington, Va., that serves the energy industry. 
 The bride graduated from the University of Virginia and received a master's degree in economics from George Washington University. Her father, Dr. John Simpson, lives in Morristown, N.J., where he retired as the director of equipment protection and standards at Bellcore, the research arm of the Bell telecommunications companies. Her mother, Noreen K. Simpson of Baltimore, teaches language arts in the middle school at Bishop John Neumann School there.
The bridegroom graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's degree in Russian studies from the University of Oxford. His mother, Dr. Judith Vicary-Swisher, lives in State College, Pa., where she is a professor of biobehavioral health at Pennsylvania State University. She is also a senior research fellow in drug-use prevention for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in Princeton, N.J. His father, Charles Vicary of Scottsdale, Ariz., retired as the president of the Ervite Corporation, a metal products manufacturer in Erie, Pa.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); ERIE, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (57%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); ERIE, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); 

PERSON: SIMPSON, CAITLIN FIONA; VICARY, SCOTT CHARLES CAITLIN FIONA SIMPSON (78%); JUDITH VICARY-SWISHER (73%); SCOTT VICARY (56%); CAITLIN SIMPSON (56%); SCOTT CHARLES VICARY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



419 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 5; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
CD-ROM Explains Jewish Rituals, and Sings Too

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE 

 BODY:
Joan Ehrlich, an Upper East Side homemaker, watched intently as the salt shaker floated over the Sabbath hallah bread on her computer screen. Raised as an observant Jew, she was familiar with the ritual of sprinkling salt on the hallah during the Friday night ceremony. But it wasn't until she popped in a CD-ROM called "Virtual Shabbat" that she learned the reason for the salt.
"I didn't know that it symbolizes the covenant between God and the Jewish people," said Ms. Ehrlich, whose interest in Judaism was reignited by her marriage two months ago to an Orthodox man. "Like that covenant, salt never spoils." 
 Created and produced by the National Jewish Outreach Program, a Manhattan group that aims to educate unaffiliated and marginally affiliated Jews about Judaism, "Virtual Shabbat" gives a basic introduction to the service, as well as information about keeping a kosher household and suggested reading material on Jewish topics.
"One of the most beautiful things is that it sings you a number of songs for the Sabbath," said Rabbi Carol Davidson, vice president of the Jewish Theological Seminary. It also includes Sabbath blessings in Hebrew and transliterations and translations of the Hebrew. "Lots of Jews don't know Hebrew and so feel left out," Rabbi Davidson said. "This teaches them."
Rabbi Ephraim Buchwald, leader of the outreach program, said: "We want to give Jews information that they either don't know or are walking away from. We want them not only to know what to do, but why they are doing it."
Though many synagogues offer outreach programs and materials like audio tapes, Dr. Steven Brown, director of the Melton Research Center for Jewish Education at the Jewish Theological Seminary, said Web sites and CD-ROM's were the next great technological leap in the dissemination of Jewish learning. Yet the economics of such projects can be daunting. "It costs $500,000 to do a high quality CD-ROM," he said. "And the target market is very small."
But Alan Oirich, who created the "Virtual Shabbat" CD-ROM with $50,000 from the Harry Stern Family Foundation, said he managed to keep the cost down with "low overhead."
"I did just about everything, and just had other people do fine tuning," he said.
 ERIC V. COPAGE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabbi Ephraim Buchwald directs the outreach program that made "Virtual Shabbat." (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL JEWISH OUTREACH PROGRAM (ORGN) MANHATTAN GROUP LLC (56%); JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL JEWISH OUTREACH PROGRAM (ORGN) JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; CD-ROM (COMPACT DISK-READ ONLY MEMORY) JEWS & JUDAISM (96%); RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); 

PERSON: COPAGE, ERIC V ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



420 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Microsoft Storms The Web Again

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE personal-computer software vein it has mined with mind-boggling success isn't about to dry up, but Microsoft is busy planning how to tap into the next Mother Lode.
The good news for shareholders is that the executives out in Redmond, Wash., know that tomorrow's gold is on the World Wide Web. The bad news is that for the last few years lots of other companies have been prospecting the Net. 
 Most analysts agree that the market for Web-based software is certain to be bigger than it is for PC-based software, so there is much money to be made. But it is an open question how much of that coin will be scraped up by Gates & Company.
Roger McNamee, a general partner at Integral Capital Partners, a Menlo Park, Calif., firm that makes venture capital and public investments in technology companies, took time last week to discuss the magnitude of the challenge facing Microsoft. Here are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Let's be clear. The future may be Web-based software. But Microsoft's days as a cash cow in the PC software business are far from numbered, right?
 
A. Microsoft's extraordinary success with Windows and related applications means that even under the most successful scenario, the Web-centric impact will be some time coming. The fact that Microsoft controls Windows and Office means that its financial future is secure for the next four or five years, at least.
I should add that we own the stock, and have forever. We sold some of our position earlier this year, and I look back on that decision with some regret.
But the fact they are refocusing on the Web is very important. The first rule of the Internet is, don't wait. Any strategy you develop today is better than the perfect strategy you develop three years from now. Put another way, you can't learn if you don't play.
 
Q. Last week, Microsoft trotted out some executives to underscore its commitment to Web-based software applications. Isn't this a song we have heard before?
 
A. In 1995, Microsoft made a strategic shift from ignoring the Net to making it an absolutely top priority. Still, the company has remained remarkably PC-centric. And if it is open to any criticism, it is that it has become extremely Windows-centric.
At this point, it is essential for Microsoft and the company's morale and cultural well-being that it make more progress in Web infrastructure than it has in the last three or four years. What they did last week reflects the understanding at Microsoft that they need to recalibrate everything they do to Web time rather than PC time.
 
Q. Why should it recalibrate to Web time?
 
A. Microsoft's problem over the next couple of years will be in human resources. One place the Government's antitrust suit has really hurt Microsoft is in morale and in recruiting.
A very significant number of Microsoft executives have retired over the last couple of years; a number of high-quality managers have moved on to Net start-ups. And I suspect it has been hurt in the recruiting world. At Stanford, for instance, the culture has shifted toward Web start-ups. There is a sense that Microsoft is no longer as cool a place to work these days as it once was.
I believe technology companies share some characteristics with sharks: keep moving or die. One of the central requirements for moving forward is the ability to recruit your fair share of the best and brightest coming into the industry.
 
Q. Is there reason to think that margins for Microsoft, or any other software maker for that matter, will be as big on the Web as they are in the PC software world?
 
A. It seems unlikely that anyone will gain the economic leverage Microsoft has in the software office business. But viewed as a whole, I think a very, very attractive business will be produced.
 
Q. Who do you see as Microsoft's principal competitors?
 
A. If you ask Microsoft about competition, they would cite Sun Microsystems and America Online and Novell as clear competitors on the Web. But right now, almost all of the innovation is coming from the start-up community, which is not unusual.
At the end of the day, I expect you will be able to count dozens and dozens of companies that are Microsoft's competitors. I don't expect them to be able to step into the Web infrastructure world and just take over, the way they did PC software. But I would not count them out, either.
 
Q. What is likely to be the best indicator of how well Microsoft is doing in the Web-based software business?
 
A. If you are an active Web user, the key thing to track is the percentage of Web-based, must-have software that comes from Microsoft. These days, those sorts of things are coming from someone other than Microsoft.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: McNamee

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); 

PERSON: MCNAMEE, ROGER; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



421 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
Tenants' Helpers Seek Help Themselves

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
Their job is to process the complaints of tenants under rent regulation who say their landlords are harassing them. But these days, the 21 members of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal enforcement unit are the ones who are complaining. They are opposing the state's plans to move their offices from Beaver Street to an office complex in Jamaica, Queens.
Ralph F. Carbone, a staff lawyer for the unit who is also the president of Local 1359 of District Council 37, which represents employees of the agency, said the enforcement unit should remain in Manhattan because "the overwhelming majority of the cases received are from Brooklyn and Manhattan." 
 In an Aug. 20 letter to the State Housing Commissioner, Joseph B. Lynch, Mr. Carbone and the other staff members said the move would make it harder for tenants and property owners, and the lawyers who represent them, to get to the agency, and employees would be forced to commute a longer distance. Copies of the letter were sent to Gov. George E. Pataki and Assemblyman Vito Lopez of Brooklyn, chairman of the Housing Committee of the State Assembly.
As of last week, neither the Governor nor Mr. Lynch had not responded to the letter. Assemblyman Lopez said he made a point of "not getting involved over staff relocations."
But State Senator Thomas K. Duane, whose district includes Chelsea and much of the Lower West Side of Manhattan, has been supportive of the employees. He wrote to Commissioner Lynch on Sept. 3, citing several tenant disputes in his district that involve "elderly or infirm" tenants who would find it "virtually impossible" to get to Jamaica if the enforcement unit were to be moved there. As of last week, Mr. Duane had not received a response to his letter, said an aide, Scott Melvin.
On Sept. 10, a memo signed by the agency's human resources director, Gerald M. Burke, and distributed to enforcement unit staff members said the move would be completed "early in the year 2000." Refusal to accept "reassignment," employees were informed, "may result in your separation from state service."
Last week, a spokesman for the housing agency, Stephen Hicks, said that the memo had been a mistake and that no final decision had been made on the move.
But Mr. Carbone said that at a meeting between agency officials and members of the enforcement unit on Tuesday, a deputy commissioner, Mary Beth Labate, said the office would be moved unless there was a compelling reason to keep it in Manhattan.
 BERNARD STAMLER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); CRAIG THOMAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



422 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
Captain Of Her Fate In Any Seas

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FORGET the "widow's walk" -- the rooftop platform from which pacing wives scanned the horizon for their seafaring husbands. Now it's the women who might well be taking to the high seas as fishermen. (Fisherwomen? Fisherpeople? No, thank you.)
Technology, in the form of lighter, easier-to-control equipment, is the big factor in helping to send dames to sea -- and to send other women into all kinds of fields that also once required substantial physical strength. 
 Of course, deep-sea fishing can still involve strenuous work, like loading 30-pound boxes of bait into the hold. But "there's no job I can't do on the boat," said Linda Greenlaw, a 5-foot-3, 135-pound woman who was captain of a 100-foot swordfishing vessel for 16 years, and now of a lobster boat.
Things have certainly changed in the 70 years since Ms. Greenlaw's grandparents hauled in their catch by hand. Back then, every task from pulling up anchor to bringing in a 500-pounder was performed manually.
Today, with all the hydraulics and electronics aboard commercial fishing boats, most of the backbreaking work is eliminated. "If you can open a doorknob, then you have the physical strength to operate a boat," said Ms. Greenlaw, 38, from her home on Isle au Haut, off the coast of Maine. "You need only turn a handle, press a button or open a valve to do all the lifting, lugging and tugging that used to be done by hand."
IN fact, in most equipment-intensive lines of work, brawn has become secondary to brains; no longer must workers be able to bench-press their weight. As a result, many occupational barriers have fallen over the last 10 years. Women have greatly increased their presence in areas as diverse as the Forest Service, long-distance trucking and construction work.
Over all, the trend has been a plus for the economy, said Paul Saffo, a director of the Institute for the Future, a research organization based in Menlo Park, Calif. "The quality of the labor force goes up," he said, "because employers have a broader field from which to select employees."
None of that, however, means that it is easy to run a steel-hulled deep-sea fishing boat in the North Atlantic, or to live with a five-member crew for 30 days at a time. The captain and crew, often in a state of mind-numbing exhaustion, contend with savage weather, equipment failure, too few fish and too many sharks. When she was at the helm of the swordfishing boat, it was not unusual for Ms. Greenlaw to work 10 consecutive 21-hour days.
And as for her all-male crews, Ms. Greenlaw says she got whatever respect she was due the old-fashioned way: She earned it.
Ms. Greenlaw spent those 16 years as the captain of the Hannah Boden, the sister ship of the Andrea Gail, which went down in the freak 1991 Atlantic tempest memorialized in "A Perfect Storm," Sebastian Junger's best seller (Norton). Ms. Greenlaw recently published a memoir of her own, "The Hungry Ocean" (Hyperion), that describes her life as a captain by focusing on one 30-day trip in which her crew had a tremendous catch -- 56,000 pounds of swordfish, kept frozen on board.
As Ms. Greenlaw is quick to note, technology on fishing boats has also helped to tip the odds against Moby Dick. Electronic navigation systems make it easier to find fish than it was when fishermen "had a sixth sense or could feel when conditions were right and where the fishing was good." she said.
On the swordfishing boat, she had a color sounder, Doppler current indicator and surface temperature gauges. Her fax machine cranked out updated weather maps. So much for "red sky at night, sailors' delight/ red sky in morning, sailors take warning."
In addition to leveling the ocean for women, technology is helping all fishermen by minimizing the kind of injuries that could sink a career. "Years ago," Ms. Greenlaw said, "a guy would have a bad back by the age of 30." Proof of the new staying power is James Greenlaw, Linda's father, who at 69 regularly fills in as captain on her lobster boat.
Advanced communication systems have also improved the safety margin for deep-sea fishing. Should all else fail, Ms. Greenlaw said, a sophisticated radio "immediately transmits the name of my vessel and exact position to the Coast Guard."
BUT technology hasn't solved the road warrior problem -- or ocean warrior problem -- of the industry: Women and men with their sights set on raising a family generally prefer not to be away from home for extended periods.
Of course, the long trips don't help in finding a partner, either.
" 'Thanks for dinner, see you in 30 days' is not exactly a relationship-builder," explained Ms. Greenlaw, who is single. She has recently switched to running a lobster boat, a job that lets her return to shore each night.
But men who don't share her craving for adventure and deep respect for the sea probably need not apply. "I love being on a boat out in the middle of the ocean," she said. "Even if I was pregnant, I'd have no problem going out."
Like any successful fisherman, however, she will take only sensible risks. "Well, maybe the final few weeks" of that pregnancy, she said, "I wouldn't go out on a long trip."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Greenlaw uses a power winch to haul up lobster traps off Isle au Haut, Me. (Carl D. Walsh for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: SEAS AS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; LOBSTERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (77%); CRUSTACEANS (77%); FISHES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); LABOR FORCE (68%); WEIGHTLIFTING (64%); 

PERSON: GREENLAW, LINDA; PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN, LAURA LINDA GREENLAW (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



423 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Debt Relief Promised, But Who Pays the Bill?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NEARLY everyone agrees that it would be a good thing if the world's rich nations could do more to ease the huge burden of debt that is weighing down the poorest countries. Far better, after all, to allow governments of impoverished nations to put what money they have into improving health care and education than to force them to sink as much as a third of their paltry budgets into futile efforts to keep up with loans from governments and international agencies -- loans that their creditors have all but written off anyway.
Under pressure from poverty-fighting groups, the big industrial nations pledged earlier this year to expand and accelerate their existing debt relief program, which has been widely criticized as slow-moving and stingy. 
 The problem is that there is no consensus among the lenders -- primarily the governments of the rich countries, plus the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- on how to pay for the initiative.
The difficulties of moving ahead will be on full display over the next several weeks at the annual meetings in Washington of the I.M.F. and the World Bank. The I.M.F. in particular is struggling to patch together a plan to pay for its share of the debt relief proposal and faces opposition not only within its own ranks but also from Republicans in Congress, whose approval is required for key elements of the plan.
The goal is to ease the debts of as many as 41 of the world's poorest nations, most of them in Africa. The money freed by the reduction in loan payments would ideally be channeled into social programs like health clinics and schools.
OVER the last three years, since the debt-relief initiative began, seven countries have qualified for help by showing a willingness to pursue prudent economic policies: Bolivia, Burkina Faso, the Ivory Coast, Guyana, Mali, Mozambique and Uganda. The total value of the debt service relief granted to those countries was $3.4 billion, measured in net present value, or the discounted value today of savings in the future.
Three more countries, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania, are in the pipeline and should qualify for an additional $1.2 billion in debt relief.
Along with the seven big industrial democracies, the I.M.F. and the World Bank want to run up the total debt relief to $12.5 billion in the next few years. Of that, the fund's share would be about $1.2 billion, seemingly a modest amount by the standards of global finance, but enough to raise some knotty economic and political problems.
The fund started by floating the idea of selling some of its vast gold reserves to finance the debt reduction. But gold-producing nations, including some of those whose debts would be reduced, objected that selling even a small portion of the reserves could further depress gold prices, which have been sliding for years. So the open-market sale idea was scrapped.
Instead, the fund is turning to an accounting solution that takes advantage of the fact that the gold reserves are carried on its books at a value far below even today's weak market prices. Its bylaws bar it from simply revaluing its reserves, so it is working on a paper transaction that would cycle ownership of as many as 10 million ounces of its 103 million ounces of gold through several central banks in a way that would allow it to revalue the gold. The arrangement would create a paper "profit" of about $2.1 billion that the fund would be free to invest; the returns on the investment would be used to pay for debt relief.
The idea has the support of the Clinton Administration, but its fate is uncertain in Congress. Republicans have concerns about both the debt relief plan and the gold transaction, but their larger complaint is with the I.M.F., which they see as ineffective, inefficient and too laxly supervised, especially in light of recent reports of continued widespread corruption in Russia, the highest-profile client of the monetary fund.
Representative Jim Saxton, a New Jersey Republican and self-appointed watchdog of the fund, said he sees the gold transaction as tantamount to using American taxpayer money for the debt relief plan, since the United States is the monetary fund's largest shareholder and therefore has a claim on any profit from the gold. "Given the multiple international investigations of the misuse of I.M.F. money now under way, it is simply impossible to justify providing more taxpayer money," Mr. Saxton said.
He said the debt relief plan provides an opportunity to review the way the fund works and to stop its drift away from tackling macroeconomic problems like trade and exchange rates and toward lending for social programs, a job already done by the World Bank.
Some of Mr. Saxton's proposed solutions, including an increase in the interest rates the fund charges on loans to economically troubled countries, infuriate the fund's supporters. And his zeal in attacking the fund may exaggerate the degree of opposition the institution faces in Congress. But his criticisms suggest that those who are hoping for a quick agreement on providing more debt relief to the world's truly poor are likely to be frustrated. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); UGANDA (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); MALI (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD BANK WORLD BANK (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD BANK INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); UGANDA (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); MALI (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TRENDS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); GOLD MARKETS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W JIM SAXTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



424 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2901 words

HEADLINE: Where the Start-Up Dance Is Still Hard to Do

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE

 BODY:
WITH no hinterland or natural resources, Singapore's Government has long cultivated this island-state's stability as corporate pastureland, leaving citizens to reap what they call the five C's: a car, a condo, credit cards, cash and a career with a multinational.
Ben Lim, 37, had it all. He was running the global computer systems for a 150-year-old British bank and earning $300,000 a year. 
 Then, in April, he did something that seemed contrary to everything Singapore Inc. stood for: he quit. Not to join another multinational company for more money, but to start a tiny high-technology company here with three other entrepreneurs -- a college buddy, a Japanese paraglider and a digital tinkerer who had helped authorities put urine detectors in Singapore's elevators.
Even stranger, the Government -- notorious for central planning and ironclad control -- wishes there were more people here like Mr. Lim.
Singapore is already a center for making high-technology hardware -- it is, for example, the world's largest producer of computer disk drives. And through the 90's, the Government has been plotting to make it an "intelligent island," a networked city that would be Asia's Silicon Valley.
But now, Singapore is peering into the Internet age and facing a quandary.
On one hand, less-developed neighbors with cheaper labor are taking away high-tech manufacturing jobs, even as virtual communities and borderless trade are eroding the advantages of geography and infrastructure that helped create cities like Singapore in the first place.
On the other, experts say, the creative germ that Singapore needs in order to compete in the information economy has been suffocated by the traditional Confucian culture and heavy Government control that form the bedrock of the city-state's society.
So the Government that for 34 years has micromanaged the economy, censored the media and brooked no dissent has now embarked on a far-reaching program to enliven Singapore, largely in the hope of encouraging independent-minded business people like Mr. Lim and his partners.
"We must create an environment where creative ideas and entrepreneurship can come about," said Teo Ming Kian, chairman of the National Science and Technology Board, which oversees Technopreneurship 21, one of several Government projects intended to prepare Singapore for the new century.
Otherwise, he said, "we could not be as relevant to the world as we'd like to be."
Critics say the plan is contrived, that ingenuity cannot be mandated from the top down. But the authorities here hope that by giving their laws, taxes and even school curriculums a more casual fit, they can lure foreign role models and synthesize a new breed of innovative Singaporean. As an added incentive, the Government has ponied up $1 billion to kick-start new companies like Mr. Lim's.
Now if only Mr. Lim could get some of it.
His fledgling business, Pixelmetrix, aims to make equipment that will let digital television broadcasters monitor picture quality. Mr. Lim and his partners have lined up a customer in Japan and pitched in around $71,000 to rent an office and start work. Having chosen Singapore over California and Japan for its tax breaks and financing potential, Pixelmetrix is hunting for $1 million in venture capital.
But its founders are discovering something that has driven a number of Singapore's "technopreneurs" to Silicon Valley and that threatens to make the Government's campaign a slow and difficult one: Few Singaporeans even want to work for a start-up, let alone invest in one.
"There has to be a change in the mentality in the market that encourages people to take risks -- and risk big," said Scott Desmarais, a management consultant here with the Boston Consulting Group.
 
From Port to Ports
It wasn't always this way. The seafaring southern Chinese who settled in Singapore in the 1800's, eventually becoming the largest ethnic group here, risked everything, crossing pirate-infested seas to reach a tiger-infested British free port in the Straits of Malacca. Life in Singapore remained perilous into the 1960's, with the city notorious for its gang-ridden streets, fetid slums and simmering racial tensions.
When Singapore was ejected from the Federation of Malaysia in 1965 and became independent, many people doubted that it could survive. But the Peoples Action Party of Lee Kuan Yew, the founding Prime Minister, who served until 1990 and is still a voice of authority here, put a firm lid on opposition and began a program of urban renewal and pro-business reform that turned a squalid Singapore into a humming industrial Shangri-La.
Slums were cleared for charmless but immaculate public housing. Residents could buy their new apartments with Government-mandated savings, turning them into stakeholders in Mr. Lee's new venture. Social engineering by the Government also extended to matters like child-bearing, courtesy and clean public toilets, and the results are difficult to ridicule: incomes here are on par with those in Western Europe.
"We've always had it drummed into us that we have nothing -- no water, nothing, only our talent, our people," said T. K. Wong, 32, who returned from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1991 to work for the Government and later started one of Singapore's earliest Internet companies, Silkroute Ventures. The company has evolved from developing on-line content to designing company Web sites and dreaming up new Internet businesses.
Singapore's growing affluence drew Mr. Lim here from Toronto in 1985. Originally from Malaysia, his family had gone to Canada in 1975 as Communists took over Vietnam and Southeast Asia's future looked dim. In Singapore, Mr. Lim started out at a local securities firm, then turned his computer engineering degree from the University of Alberta into a lucrative career in financial technology, moving to Andersen Consulting, Deutsche Bank and then Standard Chartered Bank, where he was in charge of its global networks and its Internet plans.
On a trip to Japan last fall, Mr. Lim visited a former classmate, Danny Wilson, who was working for Hewlett-Packard in Kobe. Over numerous cups of sake, the two groused about big-company life and discussed their own entrepreneurial ambitions. While steeping in a local hot spring, Mr. Lim convinced Mr. Wilson to draw up a business plan for Pixelmetrix.
The two men also recruited one of Mr. Wilson's colleagues from Hewlett-Packard, Hideki Takahashi, 34, an engineer and a paraglider. Mr. Takahashi said he would be happy to join their new company -- provided that they didn't base it in Japan, with its bureaucracy and high prices.
Mr. Lim suggested Singapore, which had become a digital convert 10 years earlier at the original source of its wealth, its port. In 1989, it installed a computer network linking shippers, suppliers and freight forwarders to Singapore's port authority. The time for processing customs declarations and permits fell from three days to less than three minutes. Tradenet, as the system was called, became a Harvard Business School case study.
Two years later, the Government asked a group of young technocrats, including Mr. Wong of Silkroute, to draft a more comprehensive plan. The result was IT2000, a plan that envisioned a nationwide network connecting every citizen and turning Singapore into a way station for information -- in short, a cyberport. Today, half of Singapore's homes have a personal computer and one of every four Singaporeans uses the Internet, according to the National Computer Board.
 
Big Plans or Big Brother?
 The project has Orwellian overtones to many, an impression reinforced by the fact that Singapore's Internet services are required to block access to some Web sites that are deemed pornographic. Public misgivings were heightened this year when the news emerged that the Government's internal security agency had covertly inspected some Web surfers' computers, looking for hackers.
IT2000 also outpaced the public's technological appetite, something that critics say is typical of state-planned technological development. The project's flagship is a $60 million high-speed fiber-optic backbone called Singapore ONE (for One Network for Everyone). The Government offered millions of dollars for developers to take advantage of the project, and even set up offices in San Francisco.
"Everybody and their mother came in, but there was nothing of strong value," said a consultant who advised the Government on the project. While Singapore ONE reaches 99 percent of Singapore homes, only 60,000 of the country's 3.2 million people use it.
Michael Yap, chairman of the National Computer Board, defends the network. "We knew it wasn't commercially viable," he said. "Industry couldn't go on its own, so we decided to share the risk."
 
The Rules Meet Reality
Such Government-knows-best attitudes, however, may have hobbled Singaporeans' ability to come up with their own solutions.
"The people I hire are too obedient," complained Louis Woo, a former Apple Computer executive from Macao who in 1997 formed a company here to make Chinese-language voice-recognition software. Last year, he sold a half-interest to Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products of Belgium.
Obedience has been taught from the time small children put on their school uniforms and line up like soldiers for morning assembly. The Government ranks schools by how pupils perform on standardized tests, and parents vie to send their children to the best, so pressure is high on both students and teachers to produce top scores. The same atmosphere, Mr. Woo and other employers say, has turned universities into factories for midlevel managers.
Eng-Siong Tan, a Singaporean who last year helped found a Web software company here called Third Voice, recalled his surprise on his first day at Purdue University in Indiana back in 1984, when counselors asked him what courses he wanted to take.
"In Singapore," he said, "they tell you your courses, they tell you your schedule and they tell you what books to buy."
Outside experts agree that group-think may hamper the city-state in the information age. "The thing that's going to stop Singapore more than anything is that its educational system is still not targeted at turning out people who question what they're taught," said David Farber, a University of Pennsylvania computing expert who visits Singapore regularly and is an adviser to the Government.
Point taken: In elementary schools, teachers are starting to take into account students' performance on projects, instead of basing their grades entirely on exam scores. Universities are reducing their emphasis on standardized tests and -- a liberalizing step here -- are introducing the American S.A.T., which is meant to evaluate students' analytical skills, not just their powers of recall.
"We cannot produce adaptable, innovative and creative students unless we have adaptable, creative and innovative teachers and schools," said Education Minister Teo Chee Hean in 1997, as he announced a new Government policy called Thinking Schools.
 
Impetus for Change
Last February, Mr. Wilson came to scout the city that Mr. Lim was proposing as their company's springboard. The Government offered grants, tax breaks and employment visas, but he still hesitated. For one thing, Mr. Wilson had been admitted to the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For another, his Japanese wife loves flamenco dancing -- a surprisingly popular activity in Japan but all but unheard of in Singapore. "I'd been to Singapore before," Mr. Wilson said. "It's a little boring."
Of course, Singapore has a lot going for it. Green, clean and efficient, it is not prone to hurricanes or earthquakes or tornadoes, and schools do not need metal detectors. A short flight away are some of the world's best beaches and tropical reefs. Still, the most common compliment from foreign residents is one that would apply to a sleepy suburb: It's a great place to raise children.
To entice foreigners to supplement its own pool of talent, Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong has called on Singapore to become more cosmopolitan. "Having fun is important," he said. "If Singapore is a dull, boring place, not only will talent not want to come here, but even Singaporeans will begin to feel restless."
Old habits die hard, however. When Singapore decided to legalize street performances in 1997, artists were required to audition and to donate any money collected to charity. The Government recently lifted a ban on audience participation, but the streets remain largely busker-free.
By March, Mr. Wilson had set aside his qualms and given up his plans to attend M.I.T. Mr. Lim said goodbye to Standard Chartered. And Mr. Takahashi began searching elsewhere in Southeast Asia for cliffs to leap from.
They brought aboard another University of Alberta alumnus, Tom Orlowski. Mr. Orlowski, 33, was already in Singapore, with a company that had developed a solution to a problem in Singapore's public housing. Now, if someone urinates inside an elevator here, the elevator shuts down and police are notified, thanks to the Urine Detection Device, which Mr. Orlowski helped invent.
Singapore may be no Manhattan, but Mr. Orlowski, who grew up in Edmonton, doesn't pretend to be an urban sophisticate. "I'll never need to be in New York," he said.
Some foreigners, however, may be disinclined to move to a nation that Freedom House, a human rights group based in Washington, calls only "partially free," with political rights and civil liberties on a par with Haiti, Kuwait or Malaysia.
After all, while Singapore discusses easing censorship, some less puritanical Asian business centers, like the Philippines and Hong Kong, are wooing high-tech investors to their own Silicon Valleys. Perhaps Singapore's most serious competition comes from Malaysia. The Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, has promised that in his Multimedia Super Corridor -- the high-tech city he is building in what was once a stretch of oil-palm plantations -- night life will not have to shut down at 3 A.M. as it does in Singapore, and authorities will not censor the Internet.
The corridor's rising profile and layoffs by big electronics companies here during the Asian financial crisis convinced the Singapore Government that it needed to do more to compete.
"We've been really good at attracting brick-and-mortar businesses," Mr. Yap said. "But given the transformation into E-business, we need to rethink what's needed."
 
Bridging a Gap
In July, the Government started Technopreneurship 21. In addition to the $1 billion venture fund for technology companies, the plan makes it harder to bankrupt small companies, decreases taxes on stock options, makes it easier for foreign entrepreneurs to obtain entry visas and allows taxpayers to deduct losses on investments in high-tech start-ups. It even lets aspiring Bill Gateses run their start-ups out of Government-built apartments.
But Friday the 13th of August nonetheless found Mr. Lim dejected. After being shuffled from office to office, he was finally told that the Government was simply overwhelmed with applications.
Officials promised to line up some potential private investors, but Mr. Lim was skeptical. "Looks like were on our own," he said.
In fact, it's unclear how much Technopreneurship 21 has achieved in its first two months. Officials of the National Science and Technology Board said fewer than 10 companies had received financing under the program so far. The experience of another program, the Technology Incubator Program, doesn't augur well: After fielding 149 inquiries since its creation a year ago, it has approved assistance for only four start-ups.
"There's a huge gap between entrepreneurs with an idea and reaching the money," said Mr. Wong of Silkroute, who moved the headquarters of his new E-commerce venture, Advanced Manufacturing Online, to Silicon Valley.
Perhaps, though, the Government is learning from its mistakes. Acknowledging earlier this month that it knows little about assessing the prospects of young high-tech companies, it decided to let more savvy venture capitalists determine how to use its $1 billion fund. Specifically, the science board will invest $250 million alongside private investors and venture capital funds. The remainder will be used by the Singapore Government Investment Corporation, which is responsible for investing Singapore's foreign reserves, to buy into venture capital funds that invest in Singapore and to develop venture-capital ties overseas.
Still, start-ups being what they are, the path for Pixelmetrix will not be easy. Some venture capitalists have rejected its projected $67 million in revenue by 2003 as not worth the paperwork. Another obstacle, Mr. Wilson said, is that "we're no dot.com."
The science board has found a so-called angel investor, a local set-top box maker, interested in investing in Pixelmetrix, with the board coming in as a co-investor. The devil is in the details.
"If I sell it cheap enough," Mr. Lim said after an initial meeting, "they're in."
As negotiations drag on, he has had to resort to a different source to tide the company over, one familiar to company founders in America as well: He's borrowing from a bank against his home.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Internet age is inducing Singapore's Government to ease its ironclad control and find ways to encourage entrepreneurs like Tom Orlowski, left; Ben Lim, center, and Danny Wilson. (Munshi Ahmed for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Charts: "How Singapore Stacks Up"
In a ranking of 55 countries, Singapore scores high on many technological measures, though not on those involving individual liberty.
 
Over all
A measure of information wealth and contributions to the global economy.
 
1 United States
2 Sweden
3 Finland
4 Singapore
5 Norway
 
THE Internet
Ranked by factors including business, education and home users as well as
E-commerce vs. nonfarm labor.
 
1 Singapore
2 Australia
3 United States
4 New Zealand
5 Sweden
 
Information
Ranked by factors including telephone lines per household and phone system errors, costs per call and TV ownership.
 
1 United States
2 Japan
3 Denmark
4 Finland
10 Singapore
 
Computers
Ranked by factors including PC shipments, PC's installed, networks and software-to-hardware spending ratio.
 
1 Singapore
2 United States
3 Sweden
4 Netherlands
5 Norway
 
Social factors
Including school enrollment, newspaper readership, press freedom and civil liberties.
 
1 Norway
2 Sweden
3 Finland
4 Australia
4 Singapore
 
(Sources: International Data Corporation; World Times)(pg. 1)
 
"Technology Tigers"
Already a world leader in manufacturing high-technology products, Singapore now wants to compete in Internet businesses. It starts out ahead of its neighbors in terms of technology use and spending. All figures are for 1998.
 
Chart lists gross domestic product per person, Internet technology spending per person, Internet technology spending as a percentage of G.D.P., Internet users as a percentage of PC's and Internet users as a percentage of population, for the United States, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. (Source: International Data Corporation)(pg. 13)
 
Illustrations by Tim Hussey (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (93%); NORWAY (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); DENMARK (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; SINGAPORE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (93%); NORWAY (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); DENMARK (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); CURRICULA (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CENSORSHIP (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TRENDS (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (50%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE BEN LIM (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



425 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
The Oilfield,Where Less Is Now More

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
THE oil-producing nations are finally sitting in the catbird seat again.
It was in March that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other major producers, including Mexico, Norway and Russia, agreed to cut production by about two million barrels a day. And when it became clear that those nations would ignore past practice and actually abide by the cuts, oil prices began to climb.
The turn of events has driven up the price of crude oil by more than 100 percent since March 1. And OPEC and company are now in the enviable position of watching demand grow -- spurred by resurgent Asian economies -- while inventories of crude oil shrink. 
 Oil-industry stocks have ridden the wave in crude oil, which now stands at $24.73 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate.
Adam Sieminski, an oil analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said OPEC and other oil-producing nations were well-positioned. "They have the production capacity to bring prices down if they want," he said.
So far, however, OPEC and its partners have no such inclinations, and those hoping for an attitude change at the OPEC meeting this week are likely to be disappointed. Mr. Sieminski says he thinks crude oil could hit $30 a barrel by early next year, but only briefly, because such a move would prompt producers to increase supply to avoid economic turmoil.
Even though the oil stocks have surged in recent months, some analysts and money managers still see bargains, even if oil prices do not rise further.
Mr. Sieminski, for example, recommends medium-sized companies like Kerr McGee, Occidental Petroleum and Marathon, which he believes have plenty of room to grow, given current prices.
Mr. Sieminski says Kerr McGee, which closed at $56.6875 on Friday, could climb to $100 over the next 12 months. He said Occidental, now at $23.125, could reach $26, and that Marathon, now at $32.1875, could hit $43.
Mark Baskir, portfolio manager of the Strong Limited Resources fund, said it had about three-fourths of its portfolio invested in major oil companies, independent exploration companies, oil service companies and natural-gas companies.
Mr. Baskir says he particularly likes the outlook for independent exploration companies like Devon Energy, Anadarko Petroleum and Apache, because they are not only benefiting from higher crude oil prices but also from rising natural-gas prices.
One of his favorite stocks, he said, is Devon, which on Friday closed at $42. He expects it to reach $65 a share in the next 12 months.
AS for the largest oil companies, Mr. Sieminski, for one, believes that they have reached their peak.
Others disagree. William L. Randol, an analyst for Banc of America Securities, said staff cuts and reductions in the cost of finding oil in recent years had left large companies in position to reap big profits.
"I don't think investors have appreciated what this will mean when the third-quarter results come in," he said. "They have been able to make money at $15 crude oil. Now with the price solidly above $20 this is all gravy for them in terms of flowing down to the bottom line."
He says the stocks of companies like Chevron, BP Amoco and Texaco could move up once the third-quarter results come flowing in. "It's shaping up to be an excellent quarter," he added.
Mr. Randol thinks Chevron, which closed at $93 on Friday, could climb to $110 in 12 months; that BP Amoco, now at $109.25, could hit $135, and that Texaco, now at $65.75, could reach $75.
Stocks of oil service companies have rebounded even more sharply than the those of the major oil companies. Since March 1, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's oil service sector index is up 82 percent.
Nevertheless, James H. Stone, an analyst for Schroder & Company, highly recommends three companies that could benefit from what he expects to be a pick-up in drilling next year: Baker Hughes, which he says will also benefit from its past cost-cutting, and for which he has set a target price of $45 a share; Weatherford, which he thinks could reach $50 to $52 a share, and Nabors, the largest land driller focused on the United States. He said Nabors should benefit from a nascent pick-up in drilling for natural gas; his target price for the stock is $38 a share.
Baker Hughes is now at $32.1875, Weatherford at $37.3125 and Nabors at $28.6875.
Mr. Stone said higher earnings at the oil companies would lead to more spending on exploration next year and that this would help the whole industry to recover.
"It's remarkable," said John Lichtblau, the chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, referring to OPEC. "Everybody dismissed it as a useless organization. The predictions were that it would fall apart and it looked that way for a while."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shares of oil services companies and some independent oil concerns have surged recently as crude oil prices have climbed. Even so, analysts say, some bargains remain. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Oil on the Rebound"
Crude oil prices have rebounded sharply as oil-producing countries have throttled back output and global economic growth has spurred demand. Graph plots the West Texas spot crude oil stock price, plotted weekly from 1996 through 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (74%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (54%); DVN (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (74%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (74%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (54%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (74%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (56%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (54%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); BONDS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS ADAM SIEMINSKI (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



426 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Conflicting Questions For Fed's Inflation Fighters

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
TWO economic reports released last week show neatly the quandary of the Federal Reserve and investors as both try to deal with the interest rate outlook, the economy and the stock market.
The first report, of a surprisingly strong 1.2 percent increase in August retail sales, suggested that the economy was not slowing, at least not yet, to a noninflationary pace that would make the Fed comfortable. 
 The second report, on the Consumer Price Index for August, showed a gain of 0.3 percent. The index is up only 2.6 percent for the first eight months of the year, suggesting inflation is still in check.
The surge in retail sales inspires this question: With the stock market still near all-time highs, and clearly powering the consumer spending that is fueling rapid economic growth, how can Fed policy makers avoid another quarter-point rate increase -- the third since June -- when they meet on Oct. 5?
The restrained inflation rate, however, provokes this question: With prices still in check after four years of robust economic growth, why should the Fed raise rates again?
Lawrence B. Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor, grappled with the two questions in a speech earlier this month in Philadelphia.
Speaking about the impact of the stock market on the economy and on the Fed's decisions on interest rates, he said, "Most important, policy makers should reflect the higher value of equities in their forecasts for aggregate spending and adjust monetary policy as necessary."
While he would not say if he thinks the stock market is overvalued -- a view that is held by many analysts -- Fed policy makers still have to judge what an overvalued stock market, even a bubble, means for their strategy. But Mr. Meyer did say that deciding where an overvalued stock market was heading, and how it would impact consumer spending and the economy, wasn't easy.
On the one hand, he said, policy makers "could conclude that an overvalued stock market would decline on its own and add that assumption to their forecast."
"That would seem reasonable but could be a mistake," he warned, because "it could discourage them from tightening in response to robust demand, driven in part by past increases in market values." He also said counting on a correction was dangerous because its size and timing were always "extremely uncertain."
On the other hand, he added, "policy makers should be alert to the potential that a tightening of policy could have a disproportionate effect" on consumer demand and make the economy slow too much.
"This does not mean, however, that policy makers are trapped and cannot respond to robust demand and rising inflation risks," he said. "It does suggest that they should appreciate that there will be more uncertainty" about how much a rate increase will slow economic growth.
MR. MEYER, of course, didn't say which hand he favors.
But in figuring what might happen on Oct. 5, consider this: Fed policy makers have indicated that they are more worried about too-rapid economic growth and the pressure that puts on wages than they are comforted by low inflation.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has indicated that he is not worried about pricking a stock market bubble, as long as the burst is a result of an anti-inflationary policy and not an effort to rein in the market. In fact, Mr. Greenspan has said that "while bubbles that burst are scarcely benign, the consequences need not be catastrophic for the economy."
In this context, Fed policy makers are trying to decide how many of last year's three quarter-point interest rate cuts should be "taken back." They have already taken back two, pushing up the Federal funds rate to 5.25 percent. Many investors think the Fed will not rescind the third, with inflation so low and fears of Year 2000 computer problems threatening market tranquility.
Still, given strong growth and the Fed's apparent willingness to face the consequences of a market tumble, taking back all three cuts seems likely. While the rate increase in June came after a surprisingly big jump in consumer prices in April -- 0.7 percent -- the move in August came after that surge was shown to be an aberration. And Fed policy makers won't really be hitting the brakes until the Federal funds rate is higher than 5.5 percent, where it was just a year ago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Fed Watch"
Investors are focused on whether the Federal Reserve will raise the Federal funds target rate, now at 5.25 percent, when it meets on Oct. 5, taking back the last of three rate cuts it made last year. Graph plots the Federal funds target rate, from Aug. 1998 through Sept. 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL SALES (72%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN LAWRENCE B MEYER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



427 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3058 words

HEADLINE: H & R Block's Risky Stab At Synergy

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
BY nurturing a reputation for integrity for 44 years, H & R Block became America's largest tax preparer. It is trusted by so many Americans with the intimate details of their finances that it filled out one of every seven income tax returns this year.
So what were they thinking here at the company's world headquarters, an airy concrete box, when Block agreed this month to pay $850 million in cash for Olde Financial, the parent of a discount securities brokerage with a history of accusations that it abused its customers and discriminated against blacks and women? 
 Wall Street reacted with revulsion to the Sept. 1 announcement, knocking down Block shares by 18 percent in two days, in the process reducing the company's value by a billion dollars. The shares have stayed down since, selling in the $46 range -- the same as they did five years ago.
Ozzie Wenick, Block's chief financial officer, said he was not surprised at the negative reaction because Olde is "this lady who in the eyes of the public is slightly tainted," and staid old Block "went out with her Tuesday and now has to explain it in church on Sunday." There is bound to be more explaining to do when Wall Street figures out that most of the purchase price will go to Olde's founder, Ernest J. Olde, who gave up his American citizenship last year, a common tactic for wealthy Americans seeking to escape taxes -- a fact that prompted Block to go to extraordinary lengths to insure that Mr. Olde pays his taxes on the transaction.
Still, Mr. Wenick said: "You have to look beyond the problem to what we can do with it. What happens if we take Olde's 600,000 clients and turn them into 1.8 million clients?"
The answer that Block is counting on, of course, is big profits -- including a steady flow of fees for managing the retirement accounts of some of Block's most affluent tax clients. Block is looking particularly at the most prosperous 25 percent of those customers -- four million households with an average income of $62,000 and a growing pot of Individual Retirement Account and college-fund money.
Frank L. Salizzoni, a veteran airline industry executive and Block director who in 1996 became the company's third chief executive in less than a year, said Block bought Olde cheaply. He projects Olde's 1999 pretax profits at $100 million, making the purchase price 8.5 times earnings, and says the acquisition will add to Block's profits immediately.
Executives here also point approvingly to Olde's network of 181 offices, its smooth back-office operations and its solid computer technology that can easily be expanded.
"If this works, the growth potential is incredible," Mr. Salizzoni said.
It's the ifs that give investors pause, because it has been a long time since the rest of the business world saw eye to eye with Block about its corporate strategy. For more than a decade, the company has stumbled into a variety of what it saw as synergistic combinations, only to reverse course and stumble out again.
Block tried to mass-market lawyering through Hyatt Legal Services, to put people in temporary jobs with its Interim agency and to provide data networking and on-line services with Compuserve. The company subsequently sold all those interests -- and others -- at a profit, but none helped it expand its core business.
THE Olde deal, Block executives say, is different -- an acquisition clearly intended to build on the company's base of 16 million tax-preparation customers and its network of 9,000 offices in the United States, plus an additional 1,500 offices in Canada, Australia and Britain.
The notion, the brainchild of Mark A. Ernst, 41, Block's president and chief executive designate, is to focus Block narrowly on taxes and what he calls its "only two natural extensions" -- mortgages and investment advice, because both are interwoven with taxes. (He said that there were no plans for a Block bank, but he did not rule one out, either.)
Last September, on his second day on the job, Mr. Ernst was told about a plan for Block to sell automobile insurance for Geico, the discount insurer controlled by Warren E. Buffett, a friend of Mr. Salizzoni's.
Mr. Ernst, a son of an Iowa tax preparer whose previous job was building a thriving investment business for American Express, quickly killed the plan. "I thought about my six sisters," he said. "They are H & R Block's customers. I wondered how auto insurance would play with them."
He said he saw no relationship between income tax returns and car insurance. Worse, he feared what would happen if Block tax preparers came to believe that the home office just wanted to push products like insurance. The preparers would "protect the clients from the company" by steering them away, he said.
The new strategy requires refinements in the company's existing holdings. For instance, Block is trying to sell Option One, its highly profitable mortgage wholesaler, because its size and capital needs distort the parent company's books. Block hopes to maintain a business relationship in which Option One buys home mortgages that Block originates.
And Mr. Ernst will impose limits on the possible synergies as he brings Olde -- a name that will disappear as quickly as possible, Block executives say, probably before year-end -- into the Block fold.
AT the 90 to 100 Block Financial Centers that the company plans to operate by early next year -- the first of possibly hundreds of offices where the mortgage and securities businesses will operate year-round alongside the seasonal tax preparation business -- tax clients will not be urged to put their income tax refunds into stocks and bonds.
Most Block clients see their refunds, which average $1,799, as "forced savings," Mr. Ernst said, and want to spend the money "on something they otherwise would never buy -- a car, travel, consumer durables."
"We're not going to try to persuade people to put their income tax refund money away, because that's pain," he explained -- and pain does not build the relationship that Mr. Ernst wants.
The painless way to save, he said, is through payroll deductions for a credit union account or a 401(k) plan. And when people are ready to open an I.R.A., or when they switch jobs and need to roll over their 401(k) money, Block will be there to help. It will also promote an Olde money-market fund that requires a $25,000 investment, but also pays about 5.5 percent interest, making it attractive to thrifty but risk-averse savers.
Middle-class Americans like his sisters are very much Mr. Ernst's target market. He is troubled, for example, by the 600 Block Premium tax preparation offices: Using the name "Premium" for the division, which was originally called Block Executive Tax Services and aimed at people with six-figure incomes, is demeaning to the company's core customers, Mr. Ernst said. He has not yet decided how to deal with the problem.
By contrast, Mr. Ernst is enthusiastic about the eight accounting firms that Block has recently acquired, intending to broaden its appeal to small corporations.
Olde has also focused on the middle class. It was established in 1971 as a brokerage firm serving blue-collar workers in Detroit, and was a pioneer in offering low-cost services after the system of fixed commissions for stock trades ended in 1975.
A big potential problem for Block is that Olde developed a reputation for taking advantage of its less-than-affluent clientele.
A year ago, the Securities and Exchange Commission settled charges of fraudulent sales practices and deceptive advertising against Olde. Mr. Olde, his company and three other executives paid a total of $7 million to settle.
Mr. Olde was also fined $500,000 by N.A.S.D. Regulation Inc., the regulatory arm of the National Association of Securities Dealers, and suspended from the brokerage business for 18 months. No admissions of wrongdoing were made by the company or its executives.
BUT that has not ended Olde's problems. One lawsuit, a class action by Arizona residents, contends that while Olde advertised commission-free trades, it secretly profited by marking up securities it sold to clients from its own portfolio. Jeffrey M. Slopen, Olde's lawyer and a company director, said the suit lacked merit.
Individual cases, in which investors say Olde brokers gave inappropriate advice and made unauthorized trades, are keeping lawyers busy in Indiana, Florida, California and other states. Mr. Slopen said securities firms have always faced such claims.
Olde quickly settled suits brought in 1995 by 14 women who were brokers at the firm. They contended that their valuable accounts had been taken away and given to men with less experience -- actions often accompanied, the women said, by pointed comments about a woman's place being with her children. In settling the cases Olde did not admit any wrongdoing.
Mr. Ernst said he was not worried about Olde's past or about litigation that might yet arise. To protect Block, he said, he negotiated specific, if confidential, terms.
"We have a clause in the contract to protect us," Mr. Ernst said, "and the liabilities were built into the price."
Randal J. Mudge, Olde's chief executive, said that when he took charge in 1995, he rebuilt Olde from top to bottom. That was not an acknowledgment of mistakes or wrongdoing in the past, he said, but rather a strategy to create a culture of integrity from which allegations of customer abuse and discrimination against employees could not arise.
Still, investors who worry that hidden liabilities lurk within Olde will take little solace in learning that Block discovered Mr. Olde's abandonment of his American citizenship only late in the negotiations.
Mr. Olde, who owns 92 percent of the firm, never mentioned it, Mr. Ernst said, during the several days they spent together at the Olde home in the Cayman Islands. (Mr. Ernst is the only Block executive who has met Mr. Olde.)
Nor did it emerge in the extensive due diligence work that Block executives describe with pride. In addition to poring over Olde Financial's books and legal papers with the help of its bankers at Salomon Smith Barney, Block brought in its own computer experts to examine Olde's technology and hired outside computer consultants as a further check. A Block lawyer quietly opened an Olde account to see what kind of advice he would get, while Block executives hunted for relatives who had Olde accounts to learn of their experiences.
Yet none of this research came across the fact -- published in the Federal Register on April 22 -- that Mr. Olde had renounced his citizenship. Instead, according to Mr. Ernst, it came to his attention in a contract document prepared by Mr. Olde and his lawyers.
Mr. Slopen, the Olde lawyer, said Mr. Olde did not give up his citizenship and alight on the Cayman Islands to avoid taxes, as other wealthy Americans have done. Rather, he said Mr. Olde, 61, had married a Caymanian citizen and spends nearly all his time there, because it is "a more controlled environment" than he can find in the United States.
Mr. Ernst put it differently. Mr. Olde, he said, gave up his citizenship because "he feels he was badly treated by the S.E.C." (Through Mr. Slopen, Mr. Olde declined to be interviewed for this article.)
IN any event, the public relations risks were obvious. Because Block is America's largest tax preparer, Mr. Slopen said, "they were concerned it would not be appropriate to pay someone who would not be paying his taxes."
"But Mr. Olde doesn't have any issue with paying his taxes," the lawyer said. "He always has paid, as much as $50 million in some years for Mr. Olde personally and Olde Financial, and he will pay his taxes on this transaction." Mr. Slopen confirmed that the tax bill will be about $157 million.
Block insisted on an escrow account for the expected taxes, Mr. Ernst said. "We have -- we obtained -- specific representations that he will pay his taxes," Mr. Ernst said.
For now, investors seem more concerned about what Block is paying for Olde. The $850 million price looks dear to Block's biggest shareholder, Harris Associates, an asset management firm in Chicago that owns 8 percent of Block.
The company sent one of its partners, Henry Berghoef, to Block's annual meeting here on Sept. 8 to ask pointed questions about the wisdom of the purchase.
With Block awash in cash from the 1998 sale of Compuserve -- the on-line service went to America Online and the digital network to what is now MCI Worldcom -- netting $1 billion cash after taxes, Mr. Berghoef asked why the company wasn't using its money to buy back shares. That strategy, he said, would raise earnings per share and lift the stock price.
"Is the board paying attention?" Mr. Berghoef asked at the meeting, saying that the Olde deal "doesn't make sense."
Moments later, after the meeting, Mr. Berghoef exchanged a few sharp words with Mr. Salizzoni in the aisles of the auditorium at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art. Then he went to lunch with Mr. Ernst, who tried to persuade him that, in the long run, buying Olde was smart.
Afterward, Mr. Berghoef said he remained unimpressed. Brokerage is a cyclical business, he noted, adding that Block is buying at the top of the market. "When the market comes down, owners will be begging people to buy brokerages for book value, not the almost 2.5 times book Block is paying," he said.
Securities analysts gave the Olde acquisition plan mixed reviews. Alexander Paris Jr., an analyst at Barrington Research Associates in Chicago, said he was "bullish on Block, even if the market isn't." He said Block paid a fair price to acquire an infrastructure to jump into the securities business.
"Block is a conservatively run company that doesn't shoot from the hip," he said. "The question is the execution, how well they will integrate Olde into Block."
Martin Romm, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, said he was not at all certain about the wisdom of the deal.
"Buying Olde injects an element of risk because of the volatility in the brokerage business," Mr. Romm said, noting that in the tax business Block has had steady, if slow, growth and predictable earnings.
He said a less risky, but profitable, strategy would have been to continue acquiring accounting firms that do business with small corporations.
BLOCK executives say the key to making the Olde purchase a success lies not in the price paid, but in how the brokerage is integrated into Block.
"For years and years," said Mr. Wenick, the chief financial officer, "we have been telling people how to minimize their taxes, and they have been whispering in our ear, 'Can you tell me how to save and invest?' And we've told them, 'We can't help you.' "
He said "the big change" wrought by Mr. Ernst is that "we were never focused on leveraging our customer base."
"Now," he said, "we are totally focused on it."
Mr. Ernst said his plan depended on persuading customers, and Block's army of tax preparers, that the company was there to help them, not shove products at them. To that end, he said, Olde's 1,200 brokers would be retrained in hopes of instilling Block's values into the brokerage organization.
"At Block, we cannot tolerate" any conduct that would harm its reputation, Mr. Ernst said.
Despite all the strategic zigzags, and even though Block has raised preparation fees for income tax returns by 17 percent in the past two years -- far above the rate of inflation -- Mr. Ernst said customers are loyal to Block. In the last two years, Block said 76.5 percent of its clients were repeat customers.
That is something that he will not be tampering with lightly.
"Have we pushed too far?" Mr. Ernst asked, before answering his own question. "Our customers absolutely love us. They feel we are one of the best companies around and that our services are a bargain. And, most importantly, they trust us."
 
Lessons Learned by a Tax Preparer's Son
TO understand Mark A. Ernst's plans for H & R Block, where he is expected to become chief executive in a year or so, requires understanding how his childhood and career prepared him for the job.
Mr. Ernst, 41, grew up in Bellevue, Iowa, a town of 1,200 families near Dubuque where his father, Robert, was a state tax auditor until he retired and started his own income tax preparation business in 1971.
Soon thereafter, Robert Ernst got a letter from H & R Block asking him to become part of its network -- and warning that if he didn't, the tax giant would open an office in Bellevue and compete for business.
The letter was a bluff: The elder Mr. Ernst held out, and Block never came to Bellevue. The son says that taught him a lesson: If your customers trust you, a competitor can't take the business away.
When Mark Ernst was studying finance and economics at Drake University and the University of Chicago, he spent two seasons preparing income tax returns in his father's office, a job that made him realize that "this is a very personal-relationship business."
"You are revealing to someone things you don't even tell your brother," he added.
He said he was "amazed that people would ask me what to do with their money -- how to invest it, how to save -- things that as a 19-year-old I had absolutely no idea about, but because I understood taxes, people thought I must."
Mr. Ernst said he was also amazed at how little money his clients had. "It gave me an appreciation of how these families were getting by, making ends meet, on less than you would imagine," he said.
After a brief stint as an accountant, he joined American Express in New York, but came to feel a bit out of place. "I had to re-orient myself to a clientele with higher incomes, with prestige marketing," he said. He moved to the company's Minneapolis office, where he worked on building several investment-related businesses, including a stock brokerage firm that doubled its revenues in two years. His final job at American Express was senior vice president; he developed ways to market mutual funds, brokerage services and annuities through third-party distributors.
He said he felt at home when he arrived a year ago at Block, a company whose chairman, Henry W. Bloch, put in for just $798 on his expense account last year, down from $959 in 1997.
 DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The president of H & R Block, Mark A. Ernst, says that there are only two "natural extensions" of his company's core business -- mortgages and investment advice, because each is interwoven with taxes. (Don Ipock for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "Building Block"
H & R Block, North America's largest tax preparer, has tried repeatedly to diversify. But not every announced purchase has pleased Wall Street. Its latest, Olde Financial, the parent company of the nation's fourth-largest discount brokerage firm, sent H & R Block stock plunging.
 
August 1978 -- H&R Block acquires Personnel Pool of America.
 
May 1980 -- Acquires Compuserve, a computer time-share company that evolves into an on-line service. Sold in 1998.
 
1980 -- In a complicated deal, acquires 80 percent of Hyatt Legal Services with plans to offer discount legal services nationwide. Sold back to Hyatt in 1987.
 
PUB-DATE: July 28, 1980
 
June 1985 -- Acquires Path Management Industries; sold in 1990.
 
January 1991 -- Acquires Interim Systems, a temporary help service, and combines its operations with Personnel Pool of America. Sold in 1994.
 
1993 -- Acquires MECA Software, the publisher of the popular Taxcut tax preparation software. Kept Taxcut, but sold MECA in 1995.
 
May 1997 -- Acquires Option One Mortgage, a mortgage wholesaler that is now for sale.
 
November 1998 -- Acquires Birchtree Financial Services, a retail securities brokerage firm.
 
February 1999 -- Acquires Assurance Mortgage Corporation of America.
 
May 1998 to August 1999 -- Acquires McGladrey & Pullen and seven smaller accounting firms.
 
September 1999 -- Agrees to acquire Olde Financial.
 
Graph plots H&R Block stock price, plotted monthly, from 1980 through 1999.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (77%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: OLDE FINANCIAL CORP; BLOCK, H & R, INC H & R BLOCK INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLDE FINANCIAL CORP; BLOCK, H & R, INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; WOMEN TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); AIRLINES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY MARK ERNST (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



428 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Happiness, By the Numbers

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
NOT too long ago in the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan, a king looking for a way to ease a medieval society into modernity decided that instead of hitching the country's aspirations to its Gross National Product, he would use a measure he called Gross National Happiness.
"That's extremely interesting, and also extremely difficult," said Ronald Inglehart, who has been studying what makes people happy and why some countries are a lot more cheerful -- or despondent -- than others. "I am extremely in favor of maximizing happiness, because that's what I think people are after," he said. "But it's not that easy. For different people, happiness is dependent on different things." 
 Can a whole country be happy, or at least happier than some other place? Professor Inglehart, the program director of the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, says that surveys in dozens of countries seem to indicate that certain nations rank very high in what experts call "subjective well being," or, in everyday language, feeling good.
For a lot of nonscientific kibbitzers, it may be reassuring to know that those mental images of mournful Russians trudging through the snow or rosy-cheeked Dutch frolicking in the tulips coincide with statistics. The Russians are measurably miserable, while the Dutch are a statistically sunny bunch. These numbers don't explain, of course, why Strindberg's gloomy Swedes profess to be so happy, or why the Chinese, whom we persist in seeing as regimented, are actually relatively content with their lives.
Why national populations place themselves at a particular point on the happiness scale is unclear. Income is only part of the picture.
"Getting richer has a big return at the early stages, as you move from dire poverty and infant mortality of 50 percent and stuff like that to a sort of modest comfort like South Korea or Spain," Professor Inglehart said. "Beyond that it makes hardly any contribution."
The European Union, with whose experts Professor Inglehart began working in the 1970's, has been sampling the subjective well-being level for several decades. With great regularity, the Nordic countries -- Iceland, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden -- along with the Netherlands and Switzerland top the charts. But Ireland, north and south, is up there, too, despite its legendary troubles. The Iberians are at the bottom, and Germany, France and Italy are somewhere in between.
Since 1981, Professor Inglehart has built up a team of experts in 65 countries to conduct broader surveys. They show Americans and Canadians about on a par with moderately happy Europeans. The Russians are joined by citizens of other former Soviet-bloc countries in the cellar, falling below Nigeria and Bangladesh.
THE worldwide findings, analyzed by Professor Inglehart and Hans-Dieter Klingemann of the Center for Sciences in Berlin, will be published next year in a book called "Subjective Well-Being Across Cultures." Their study is intended to question other recent research showing that people may be genetically programmed for upbeat personalities, a theory the authors conclude may be applicable within a society but cannot account for national differences.
"There are huge differences among nations and they are not at all random," Professor Inglehart said. "Virtually all stable democracies are much more likely to have high levels of subjective well-being. Virtually all countries that are low on subjective well-being are authoritarian." He said there are two readings of this. People who are basically satisfied with their lives "are much more likely to be supportive of democratic institutions, and I think it's mostly that," he said. "But the other reading is much more fun: If you become democratic, you live happily ever after."
The sense that they are living under a government they chose and control seems to make people in democracies feel better, research finds. That environment also allows people who have reached a comfortable economic level to turn to issues like the environment or women's rights. At that point, it becomes much trickier for governments to know what people want next. This is where a country like Singapore stands now. An authoritarian Government has made Singaporeans prosperous, but what next?
All this said, is there a case to be made for sadness? Melancholy can season the soul and inspire great literature or music. Culture in it broadest sense plays a big but not easily quantifiable role in emotions and impressions of well-being. In Russia and the Iberian countries, pain and anguish, even tragedy, may be an integral and acceptable part of psychological life.
"In Portugal," said Antonio Monteiro, the Portuguese representative at the United Nations, "we call our national music fado, and fado means fate, destiny." If you listen to the country's most famous singers, he said, "the song is always about something missing."
And the most romantic word in the Portuguese language is saudade, Mr. Monteiro said. "Saudade is when we miss something. But in a certain way you live with this feeling, and you live well with this feeling. It hurts you but comforts you at the same time."
Just ask someone on the street, How are you? "Culturally, nobody will tell you, I'm fine, I'm happy - nobody," he said. "That's the way the Portuguese are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Happy hour in a Swedish hotel made of ice. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BHUTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (74%); FRANCE (72%); SWITZERLAND (72%); GERMANY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); ICELAND (52%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BHUTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (74%); FRANCE (72%); SWITZERLAND (72%); GERMANY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); ICELAND (52%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (71%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMOTIONS GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (61%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; INGLEHART, RONALD (PROF) RONALD INGLEHART (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



429 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Now, Presidential 'Body' Politics;
But Seriously, Mr. Ventura

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NEITHER Vice President Al Gore nor Gov. George W. Bush of Texas is ripping his shirt off and wrapping a feather boa around his neck in the style of Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota. But barely one year after Mr. Ventura's unlikely election on the Reform Party ticket unnerved Democrats and Republicans, politicians have generally stopped joking about the professional wrestler turned politician.
Now they are scrutinizing Mr. Ventura's every pronouncement, assembling focus groups and even making pilgrimages to St. Paul, Minnesota's capital, searching for clues to a mystery that confounds even the most savvy politicians: How does a candidate excite the electorate and galvanize new voters when the public does not seem to be paying attention to politics? 
 The day he was elected, Mr. Ventura became the nation's foremost beacon for disaffected and independent voters. More important, after wrestling control of the Reform Party from Ross Perot this summer -- Mr. Ventura's candidate was elected chairman -- the Minnesota Governor has emerged as the institutional embodiment of national disaffection as well.
Last week, Mr. Ventura's role as the power broker in third-party politics was unmistakable. After Patrick J. Buchanan all but said he would abandon the Republican Party to try to run for President on the Reform Party ticket, attention turned to Mr. Ventura: Would he use his clout as the nation's only office-holder under the Reform Party banner to thwart Mr. Buchanan, whose conservative stands on social issues are at odds with Mr. Ventura's libertarian views? Would he endorse Donald Trump instead? Would he heed the entreaties and run himself for President?
"If Ventura has to stop Buchanan by being the candidate himself, his ideas will be thrust center stage on American politics," said Richard N. Bond, a former Republican national chairman. "That would be a powerful test to the two-party system."
Politicians and professional wrestlers are often guilty of hyperbole, so it is no surprise that Mr. Ventura holds a perhaps inflated view of his role. "Both of these parties want to say they're me," he said in an interview. "They're all telling the world, 'Yes, I'm a Jesse substitute.' I wish I could hand them a recipe, like your grandmother's spaghetti."
Mr. Ventura could well end up as a footnote, but for now, at least, his achievement should not be dismissed. By capturing 37 percent of the vote against established Republican and Democratic contenders -- and by carrying every age group under 60 -- Mr. Ventura underscored a political paradox: even in a time of economic contentment, Americans are yearning for blunt-speaking outsiders.
"Jesse Ventura put all of Washington on notice that the amount of cynicism and disengagement with politics as usual is very high in America," said Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican.
WHILE inside his state he has been attacked for failing to deliver on a big tax cut and other promises, Mr. Ventura has an impressive approval rating. Beyond Minnesota, he has drawn notice for emphasizing smaller government, campaign finance reform and bringing honesty to Government. He was a pioneer of using the Internet to convey his message.
"I'm a longtime critic of Perot, but I think Jesse could be the real deal," said Paul Begala, a former top aide to President Clinton. "He's an authentic populist in the way a billionaire just cannot be."
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is seeking the Republican Presidential nomination, happily compares himself to the former wrestler. "We have a lot in common," he said. "He and I were both in the Navy. I was a high school and college wrestler -- but I was mediocre."
For all the gushing, there is vigorous debate in Democratic and Republican circles over the staying power of the 48-year-old Governor. Some argue that he will be a transforming force; others say he will fade. Some argue that his success can be mimicked; others say he is a one-of-a-kind who was elected only because of his brash style and unconventional resume. After all, what other politicians have had toy action figures made in their likeness?
"He's been exalted to a rather prominent position by some circumstances that do not really add up to his being a long-term political leader of a third party movement," said former Representative John B. Anderson of Illinois, who ran as an independent for President in 1980. "He's trading to some degree on his celebrity status."
Scoffing at the idea of Mr. Ventura as more than a fleeting sensation, Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat, said, "People see him as a character, but not as someone they would sleep comfortably at night as head of the Government."
Senator Joseph R. Biden, a Delaware Democrat, predicted that Mr. Ventura would fade like Mr. Perot. "In four years, he'll be where our boy from Texas is -- only without the money," he said. "It's a predictable aberration; every four to 10 years in American politics there's a character like Rush Limbaugh or Jerry Falwell with something interesting to say who becomes a repository for despair within the existing system."
Told of Mr. Biden's comments, Mr. Ventura flashed the impudence that some find refreshing and others find disturbing. "Who does that guy think he is?" he said. "You can tell Joe Biden that if, indeed, four years from now nobody will know who I am, I'd still rather be an unknown than a career politician like him. Go out and ask your average teen-ager today who Jesse Ventura is and who Joe Biden is. What I've accomplished is more than he ever will."
Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster, said politicians dismiss Mr. Ventura at their peril. "There is an arrogance among the old-fashioned political elite to reject what Ventura represents because it's so foreign to them and in a sense it's radical and even dangerous," he said.
Yet, realistically, established politicians who entered the political world in blue suits and red ties cannot suddenly make themselves over without the risk of appearing calculating -- not to mention loony.
"I've not seen any of my colleagues inclined to go into the wrestling ring," Mr. Specter said. "Also, you can't go through what the 535 of us have go through to get here without having fairly set ways. It would take a lot of planning to be as spontaneous as Jesse Ventura."
Even while he argued that his success is hardly a fluke, Mr. Ventura conceded that his candidacy was "a rather unique situation" that other candidates could not easily imitate.
"There is not one politician in America that could have done what I've done and gotten away with it," he said of his move from the wrestling ring to the political circus. "You can't be plain spoken and direct unless you are."
IM R. Ventura said there's no living politician like him. "I see myself closest to Abraham Lincoln," he said. "We're alike in many ways. We were both wrestlers. And we're both six-foot-four."
Not everyone rejects the idea of a President Ventura. "I've always had in the back of my mind that Jesse's gearing up for 2004," said Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican. "He certainly has the potential. I don't think you should ever underestimate him."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Reform Party poster featuring its new power, Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN (75%); REFORM PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); WRESTLING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOCUS GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; VENTURA, JESSE (GOV); PEROT, ROSS AL GORE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



430 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 21; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: The Hidden Message On Nassau Taxes

 BODY:
There has been a lot of dissembling coming from the top County Republican leaders about Nassau County's current financial crisis. Two months before the elections, they have finally stirred themselves into action to try to avoid tremendous defeat in November. Yet, recent comments from the three top Nassau County Republican leaders have me shocked, alarmed and worried for our future in what is already the most-taxed county in New York.
* The County Executive, Tom Gulotta, stated that "the problem is not overspending, it is the lack of recurring revenues to meet increasing expenses." Translation: "We're not spending too much. The taxpayers aren't giving us enough money. We need more." 
 Bruce Blakeman, the Republican majority leader of the Nassau County Legislature, was quoted as saying he will go to Albany to ask for a three-year extension of the "temporary" real-estate transfer tax to add structural stability to the county's finances. Translation: "I need to make this tax permanent. Kiss 1 percent of your home value goodbye forever."
* Joseph Mondello, the county's Republican Party chairman, was quoted as saying: "We're going to cut, cut, cut until we can't cut anymore. Then if we have to raise taxes, it will be better accepted by the people." Translation: "We're going to make a big show of fiscal responsibility so we can continue to raise taxes and keep this gravy train rolling."
Their intent is plain. In a time of plenty when Republicans in Washington and Albany are enjoying budget surpluses and are working diligently to cut our taxes, the Republicans in Nassau County have plunged us deep into debt and are scheming to raise our taxes yet again.
 
THOMAS SOBCZAK
Westbury 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING COUNTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 

PERSON: SOBCZAK, THOMAS

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



431 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: On Hawaii, A Telescope Widens Orbit Of Japanese

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: MOUNT MAUNA KEA, Hawaii, Sept. 17

 BODY:
In a mountaintop ceremony bringing together a stately Japanese Princess and members of the Hawaiian royal order emblazoned in crimson robes, Japan today inaugurated what many astronomers expect will soon prove to be the world's most powerful land-based telescope.
Experts gathered under a dazzling sun at the 13,796-foot summit of Mount Mauna Kea, Hawaii's tallest mountain, said the 26.9-foot instrument, known by the Japanese name for the constellation Pleiades, or Subaru, would quickly help propel Japan from relative astronomical obscurity into the highest echelons of space-observing nations. 
 Moreover, many said, the $400 million telescope represented the first time that Japan had spent so heavily on a scientific project overseas. As such, they said, it represents a sort of scientific coming out for a nation whose scientific efforts have been devoted mostly to domestic well-being since Japan's defeat in World War II.
That the event took place in Hawaii, where a Japanese aerial attack on Pearl Harbor brought about America's entry into war in 1941, resonated strongly with the symbolism of Japan's reconciliation and close alliance with the United States.
The United States' Ambassador to Japan, Thomas Foley, alluded to this in his remarks at the ceremony. Using the original Japanese definition of the word Subaru, he said, "I find it particularly appropriate that this telescope is named Subaru, or uniting, coming together."
Cooperation with both the United States and other nations was necessary to build the telescope. But the Japanese scientists who will operate it make no secret of their ambition to have the world's best such instrument.
Proudly displaying pictures taken by the Subaru and by the Hubble space telescope, the Japanese astronomers said their telescope was the world's sharpest, and among the most capable.
Its extraordinarily sharp resolution is due in large part to design innovations that for the first time apply Japan's renowned skills in engineering, electronics and miniaturization to telescope building.
An array of 261 tiny, ultra-precise motors can adjust the huge mirror for minute distortions. The mirror is said to be of unprecedented thinness for its size, reducing the problem of wielding an object of immense mass. And scientists say the telescope is extraordinarily accurate in the tracking of distant objects.
It is also unusually quiet because of what the Japanese say is a unique casing that slews almost silently along with the telescope itself.
"We must still prove it, but I think that our telescope's design will allow us to make the best images," said Dr. Norio Kaifu, the director of the Subaru telescope. "We share our information with the other telescopes on Mauna Kea, and so far, without adaptive optics, our images have the highest resolution."
Mauna Kea is already home to perhaps the world's two greatest telescopes, behemoths of comparable size: the United States-owned Keck telescope, and the Gemini, which is the fruit of an American-led international consortium. Adaptive optics is a technology perfected in Hawaii that will eventually be used by all three of the telescopes and that allows for a dramatic correction of atmospheric distortions.
The construction of so many large telescopes at the peak of Mauna Kea, a native spiritual ground, has been a source of serious tension in Hawaii for years. And the addition of Subaru to this community was no different.
With a table of white cumulus clouds stretching below as far as the eye could see, members of the Royal Order of Kamehameha called the site "the place where the bones of my ancestors and the spirit of our people reside."
Once the inauguration got under way inside the telescope's frigid white dome, however, the Hawaiian traditionalists listened quietly.
The Japanese Princess, Sayako, made no reference to the local controversy in remarks she made as she stood before the American, Japanese and Hawaiian flags under the bright metallic blue of the telescope's superstructure. She referred instead to the use of the stars as navigating tools by the original Hawaiians and praised the international "cooperation of many people from many fields" behind Subaru's creation.
Ever since a broadcast of the telescope's inaugural test was relayed to Japanese television, the device has enjoyed almost celebrity status among the Japanese, more accustomed to observing and following than being pioneers in fields like astronomy.
"The feelings of the Japanese people are changing," said Takafumi Matsui, a professor of interplanetary physics at Tokyo University. "There are increasing numbers of people who feel that we should have contributed more to such kinds of learning during the bubble economy of the 1980's. And still now, people feel that we should be able to contribute more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Princess Sayako of Japan at the dedication of a telescope on the Hawaiian mountain Mauna Kea. (Michael Darden for The New York Times)
 
Map of Hawaii shows the location of Mauna Kea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT MAUNA KEA (HAWAII); HAWAII; JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (94%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (74%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; SAYAKO (PRINCESS); FOLEY, THOMAS (AMB)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



432 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
Good Times Temper Desire For More Jobs

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: NORTH GREENBUSH, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE upper Hudson River Valley has been obsessing over its lost jobs and shuttered industries for so long that Jim Flanigan thought that getting the O.K. to bring a microchip plant and thousands of high-tech jobs to this town would be a walk in the park.
After all, the Governor, whose office in Albany is right across the Hudson River from here, had already dispensed $50,000 to help North Greenbush attract the plant, while the Senate majority leader, who represents the area, pulled millions more out of the legislative air to ease the way. 
 One might think that a region with such a history of economic desperation that the writer William Kennedy has made hard times a central theme of his Albany novels would be grateful for the attention.
But Mr. Flanigan, a town councilman, has discovered that the promise of jobs and investment is not as compelling here as it was when the Albany region consistently lagged behind the downstate area economically. Now the money is flowing here, too, the region's unemployment rate is below 4 percent, and the local school bus company is complaining that $10 an hour is not enough to attract drivers.
Mr. Flanigan is hearing an unusual refrain for this part of the state: "Enough."
"I hear a lot of people say, 'We don't need it anymore,' " Mr. Flanigan said. "And when you ask them to define 'need,' it is that they have a job and they're comfortable. But a few years ago they weren't so comfortable, and things could turn against us again."
No microchip plant is in the offing now, and no chip maker has even begun to commit to North Greenbush, which has about 11,000 residents. Instead, the idea is to make a site "shovel ready," with all licenses and environmental permits completed, so that a plant could move in quickly once a deal was struck.
Having the full force of state government pushing North Greenbush to approve a phantom plant has some residents digging in their heels. "People talk about the importance of jobs and growth, and I understand that," said Francis Rodgers, a retired public school administrator. "But I'm talking about preserving our rights against government cannibalism, which is when a higher level of government is trying to impose its policies on a lower level. Governor Pataki wants this type of plant in New York State, but Governor Pataki doesn't live in North Greenbush."
Christine LaPlante, a North Greenbush native and a professor of civil engineering at Union College, seemed to agree. "It's very political," she said. "It's coming from the highest levels of government, and they really want to see something like this happen in Rensselaer County. But why does it have to go to a virgin area? Why can't it go where people are used to industry?"
It looked as if the North Greenbush board would approve all the permits for the plant until the Rensselaer County Greens, an environmental group, recently raised objections. The Greens made "Silicon Valley" sound like a dirty word in a leaflet predicting that microchips would turn North Greenbush into "an endless parking lot, full of despair and lost kids, with a toxic cloud hanging in the air."
Residents jammed the public meeting that followed to recount cases of cancer in their families and to fret about the acids that chip makers use to etch the silicon. Suddenly, Mr. Flanigan said, supporters of the project started going into hiding.
"It's scare tactics," said Roy Wright, the town supervisor and the only other strong pro-chip voice on the five-member council. "It's mind-boggling that people would be against this kind of economic development."
Maybe they won't be for long, Mr. Flanigan said. Schenectady is still losing General Electric jobs, the Watervliet Arsenal recently announced a new round of layoffs, and the BASF dye works in the city of Rensselaer just disclosed that it was moving many local jobs to Europe. "Some of these folks arguably do feel rich and comfortable and maybe they don't need this plant, but what about their kids and grandkids?" he asked. "We're still exporting most of our graduates, because when you lose part of a GE or a BASF or a Watervliet they have to leave, or work in Wal-Marts." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (58%); K (TSX) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH GREENBUSH (NY); ALBANY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WRITERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); APPROVALS (66%); ENGINEERING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TRENDS (60%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER WILLIAM P KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



433 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Turn an Unblinded Eye on Russian Funds in Their Banks

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: LUGANO, Switzerland, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Since the collapse of Communism in the Soviet Union, former citizens and their capital have flooded into Switzerland and into its banks. Now, as concern deepens that the money may be linked to organized crime, the banks and the Government are taking measures unusual by Swiss standards to try to ferret out any illegality.
In the early 1990's, Swiss bankers and Government leaders welcomed Russian money. The well-oiled Swiss economy was showing signs of strain, and the banks faced mounting international competition. 
 But since the arrest in 1996 of an allegedly major Russian crime figure who had taken up residence near Geneva, attitudes have changed dramatically. Steps to battle organized crime based in Russia or elsewhere in the former Soviet Union have come in quick succession.
Prompted originally by the embarrassment of the $500 million stashed in Swiss banks by Ferdinand E. Marcos the Swiss for the first time made money laundering a crime. They have since started to put those laws into force, created a police unit for Russian gangs and become more cooperative with Russian investigators.
In recent months Swiss prosecutors investigating money laundering at the highest levels of the Russian Government have traveled to Moscow to exchange information and question witnesses, and Russian counterparts have come to Switzerland. Swiss banks have been ordered to provide information about dozens of Russians with assets here and to freeze a number of bank accounts.
"The Swiss have always been very careful before making an investigation public," said a senior executive at a Geneva bank. The wide publicity and the large number of accounts frozen -- more than 59, he said -- demonstrated that the usually unflappable Swiss consider the Russian entanglement "a very serious matter."
Jean Ziegler, a member of the Swiss legislature's foreign affairs committee, said officials tended to view the arrival of the Russians and their money as having occurred in three distinct phases.
First, he said, came large flows of money from the Soviet Union, as Russians and others transferred their assets to safe havens abroad. Though there are no official figures, the Swiss authorities estimate that $40 billion to $50 billion in Russian capital is deposited in Swiss banks.
For the Swiss the money was something of a boon. They were feeling pressure from emerging offshore banking centers, as well as big commercial banks in the United States and Europe, which were becoming more involved in the traditional Swiss specialty of investing money for wealthy clients.
In addition, less money was moving into Switzerland in search of a safe haven. There was pressure against it from organizations like the International Monetary Fund, which sought to curb flows of illicit capital from the third world. There were also tougher laws in Western Europe against tax evasion.
By the mid-1990's, Mr. Ziegler said, a second stage followed, in which thousands of Russians began acquiring Swiss property, settling their families in Swiss cantons and sending their children to school here. By 1996 Switzerland was issuing visas to roughly 70,000 former Soviet citizens annually, compared with 4,000 two decades earlier.
Pressure for the liberal visa policy, officials said, stemmed from local cantonal goverments, which welcomed the free-spending Russians. But the banks, too, urged the Government to grant the visas. Refusal, they said, only provoked the Russians to refuse Swiss bankers entry into Russia.
Problems extended to other former Soviet regions. Late last year the Swiss police arrested a former Ukrainian Prime Minister, Pavel Lazarenko, and indicted him on money laundering charges. He was released on $3 million bail and fled to the United States, where he is now under arrest in California.
Mr. Ziegler said Swiss attitudes toward money from Russia and former Soviet republics began to change in 1996, with the arrest of Sergei Mikhailov, who is reputed to be the boss of the largest and most powerful criminal gang in Russia.
"Switzerland suddenly appeared to be harboring some of the headquarters of these people," said Mr. Ziegler, a sociology professor in Geneva. "We became alarmed."
Late last year Mr. Mikhailov, who had settled in a village near Geneva with his wife and two daughters, was tried by a Geneva court on charges of belonging to a criminal organization. He was acquitted for lack of evidence and returned to Moscow.
But Swiss fears had by then been deepened. There were suspicions that Mr. Mikhailov, who had begun buying up Swiss companies, had links to other bosses of the Russian underworld. These allegedly included Vyacheslav K. Ivankov, whom a Brooklyn court convicted of extortion in 1996, and Semyon Y. Mogilevich, a reputed boss of the Budapest underworld. The Ukrainian-born Mr. Mogilevich is now also suspected by the F.B.I. of having moved illicit funds through the Bank of New York, although he denies the allegations.
The Swiss response to suspicions about accounts held by former Soviet citizens and their companies has been streamlined by new laws. Legislation that took effect in April, for example, requires all banks and financial intermediaries to report suspicious practices suggesting money laundering. Previously laws prevented such disclosures.
Daniel Thelesklaf, director of a new office tracking money laundering, said about 160 cases had been reported to date, involving $220 million, up from 30 to 40 under the old legislation. Still, he concluded in a recent report that "the number of reports is still low, given Switzerland's importance as a financial center."
Last year the Swiss federal police set up a special unit to keep track of organized crime gangs from the former Soviet Union. Earlier this year a first report from the group traced a broad mosaic of Russian organized crime operating in Switzerland, with activities focused on the cantons of Geneva, Zurich and Ticino, and involving mainly money laundering.
The federal police spokesman in Bern, Folco Galli, said that for "insiders," the report was nothing spectacular. "It was the tip of the iceberg," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME; MONEY LAUNDERING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAX FRAUD (70%); TAX LAW (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN JEAN ZIEGLER (76%); SERGEI MIKHAILOV (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



434 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: THE BIG STORM: THE OVERVIEW;
Clinton Names Disaster Areas In New Jersey

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

 BODY:
As homeowners in the lower Hudson Valley and northern New Jersey continued bailing water from their homes, President Clinton yesterday declared Federal disaster areas in four New York counties and eight counties in New Jersey.
The declaration makes homeowners and businesses in those counties eligible for Federal disaster relief, which could include housing, grants, low-cost loans and other assistance to speed recovery from last week's storm. 
 In New York, the declaration covered Orange, Rockland, Putnam and Westchester Counties. In New Jersey, the disaster areas were Somerset, Bergen, Essex, Mercer, Middlesex, Morris, Passaic and Union Counties.
About 125,000 homes in the two states still had no power yesterday, and tens of thousands have lost regular and cellular phone service. More than 200,000 people in 46 New Jersey towns were warned to boil water for three minutes before using it, after flood waters overwhelmed a treatment plant.
"This really was a major national disaster," Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday, speaking to reporters at a train station in Ossining, N.Y., where National Guard soldiers were shoveling mud and debris left by the swelling Sing Sing Creek. "A storm like this occurs maybe once every 200 years. It's something unprecedented."
"Now we need neighbor helping neighbor," he added. "We'll get through it. We'll come back strong. That's the way New Yorkers always are."
Meanwhile, under yesterday's seemingly incongruous late-summer sun and azure skies, teams of disaster specialists began wading through flood-ruined neighborhoods in New York and New Jersey, counting what is estimated to be hundreds of millions of dollars in damage caused by Hurricane Floyd.
Trains on the Harlem line of the Metro-North Railroad were operating only as far north as Chappaqua, N.Y. Railroad officials were still uncertain yesterday whether service to northern Westchester County would be restored by tomorrow. Amtrak, however, resumed service between New York and Washington.
In parts of northern New Jersey, National Guard troops kept increasingly desperate homeowners from returning to their flooded homes.
In Bound Brook, N.J., the waters receded and residents -- many of whom are veterans of earlier floods -- counted themselves lucky to have lost nothing more than their possessions.
"Light poles are down," said Mayor Frank Gilly, surveying the uncalculated devastation on Main Street. "Traffic signals are down. All the stores were full of water."
As floodwaters receded, search teams in Bound Brook went through 200 waterlogged homes to look for anyone who might still be inside.
"Now it looks like a big mudslide," Somerset County's emergency management director, LeRoy Gunzelman, said. "The water's gone, and there's mud and debris all over the roads. The structures have to be tested today to see if they're even safe enough for the search-and-rescue team."
Mr. Gunzelman said 700 evacuees were resting this morning in the emergency shelter at Bound Brook High School.
In New York State, about 600 National Guard troops and an equal number of State Department of Transportation workers were busy yesterday repairing damaged roads and electric cables, state disaster relief officials said.
Two-truck crews of utility workers slowly worked their way down rural lanes in Putnam County checking for problems and turning on power in increments, sometimes a few houses at a time.
"It looks like there's millions of dollars' worth of damage," said Dennis Michalski, a spokesman for the New York Emergency Management Office. "There's definitely hundreds and hundreds of homes in New York State that have been damaged."
The lower Hudson Valley, he added, "really got hammered."
But the most damage was clearly in the nine-county region of northern New Jersey, particularly in Bound Brook, Manville and Lodi, where some rivers had yet to crest, state and Federal officials said.
"Those will be probably the areas where we find the most damage," said Michael Dabney, regional operations director for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's office in New York City.
In Rochelle Park, N.J., high waters caused problems at a key telephone switching center. Nearly one million long-distance phone customers, mostly in Passaic and Bergen Counties, were without service on Friday because of water damage to the switching center, and even some A.T.M. and credit card transactions were temporarily shut down.
An AT&T spokesman, David Johnson, said tens of thousands of mobile-phone customers in New York and New Jersey were still without service yesterday.
Though crews were working around the clock to fix the damage, he said, it was not certain that service would be restored by tomorrow.
Several train lines in the region were slowly coming back to life. Amtrak's Northeast Corridor service, which had been suspended between New York City and Washington on Thursday evening because of flooding in the Trenton station, resumed operations on the route early yesterday morning, said an Amtrak spokesman, Rick Remington.
Amtrak trains were still not able to run through flooded areas of Richmond and several points south, however, Mr. Remington said.
Officials were also assessing damage in a handful of towns in western Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times
Connecticut. By far the worst damage was in Danbury, in northern Fairfield County, where about 350 homes were damaged by flooding, and the Danbury Fair Mall remained surrounded by water yesterday.
"The Connecticut River is taking runoff from all of New England," said John T. Wiltse, director of the Connecticut Office of Emergency Management. But he said flooding would not be severe.
About 5,000 residents remained without power in Connecticut, utility company officials said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ;NATIONAL GUARD (US) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%); NEW YORK EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NATIONAL GUARD (US) NEW YORK EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FLOODS; HURRICANE FLOYD; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; WATER DISASTER RELIEF (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POWER FAILURES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); ARMIES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



435 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: Latinos Gain Visibility In Cultural Life of U.S.

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
Lucy Lopez is 72 years old, but she still remembers the name of her kindergarten teacher: Miss Jones. On the first day of school, Miss Jones put Lucy in a corner for not knowing how to count to four in English.
So when she had children, Lucy and her husband, Gabriel, both born in Texas of Mexican parents, gave some of them non-Hispanic names like Debra Susan and Adam Floyd. They spoke to the children only in English. 
 But for the third Lopez generation, there is less pressure to choose between two cultures. Sofia Angela Lopez, 16, a granddaughter, postponed her quinceanera, the traditional 15th birthday celebration, so she could have a Sweet 16 party instead. She sings alternative rock in English, and hymns at Mass in Spanish. When she debates history with her father, he sounds like a Mexican in Texas and she sounds like a Texan of Mexican descent.
"He sees America as, 'This was Mexico, this was our land,' that kind of attitude," she said. "I feel it was Mexico, but to tell you the truth, I don't really know how Mexico is. I'm more like, 'This is America now.' "
The America of Sofia Lopez is an increasingly Hispanic nation, home to 31 million people of Latin ancestry, a rapidly growing number that in the next five years is expected to surpass African-Americans as the largest minority group and will most likely make up a fourth of the nation's population in 50 years, a demographic trend that has provoked both debate and celebration. Even as Californians vote to end bilingual education, news magazines proclaim and applaud the Latinization of popular culture.
But what the growth has also done is help "Latinize" many Hispanic people who are finding it easier to affirm their heritage. And as they find strength in numbers, as younger generations grow up with more ethnic pride and as a Latin influence starts permeating fields like entertainment, advertising and politics, Latinos are becoming visible in ways that offer glimpses of what their larger presence may mean for the United States.
So right does Carlos J. Guerrero, 34, a Houston businessman and Texas native, feel about his heritage these days that he just ordered his first guayabera shirt, through the Internet. So right it feels to be Latino, said Nestor Rodriguez, 51, co-director of the University of Houston's Center for Immigration Research, that he no longer regards tacos as a "peasant's meal."
"It's not that we're regaining our culture," Mr. Rodriguez said. "It's that now tacos are everybody's meal."
Jose Alberto Medrano, 24, a political science student at the University of Houston and a legislative aide, has even stopped going by Albert, the name he used in grade school.
"It just didn't feel threatening to be Jose anymore," the Chicago-born Mr. Medrano said. "I used to feel I would be discriminated against, that it wouldn't be socially acceptable. It's cool to be Hispanic now." (Last year Jose replaced Michael as the most popular newborn boy's name in Texas and California.)
At Youth Engaged in Service College Preparatory School, the charter school Sofia attends in Houston, a group of classmates discussed what they rejected of their parents' culture. They tended to identify attitudes and beliefs: deep religiousness, or the sexism that limits the aspirations of girls.
"My mom thinks girls should not play sports," said Elvia Flores, 16, who came to the United States from Mexico at age 6 and who plays soccer.
At the same time, however, there was no trace of shame, no fear of appearing foreign for embracing other parts of the culture. They all spoke Spanish, although some of them admitted to speaking poorly. Sofia, who aspires to be "a lawyer or F.B.I. agent," said she planned to pass on to her children what she termed "sentimental" traditions, like observing the Day of the Dead. And they all find inspiration in the achievements of any Latino, whether Jennifer Lopez, the Puerto Rican movie star, or Sammy Sosa, the Dominican home run star.
Such comfort level with heritage is far higher than that of the previous generation. John Lantigua, a Miami journalist and novelist whose father was a Cuban immigrant and whose mother was a Puerto Rican, said his parents pursued the American dream in the 1950's by moving from the Bronx to the New Jersey suburbs and forbidding him to speak Spanish.
"I used to find scrapbooks in my house from the days before I was born, when my parents would go out to the Palladium and the Copacabana," Mr. Lantigua, 51, said. "I knew my parents had had this other life that I wasn't encouraged to have."
Many members of Mr. Lantigua's generation reacted by trying to recover what had been denied them, self-consciously immersing themselves in Latin culture.
"As I was planning my life, I knew I didn't want to live like that, with that lack of connection to a community," Mr. Lantigua said. "I've spent my whole adult life going back to it, to reconnect with that culture."
David E. Hayes-Bautista, 53, a Mexican-American who is director of the Center for the Study of Latino Health at the University of California at Los Angeles, also grew up with parents who "thought the best they could do was to protect us from being Latino."
"The Chicano movement was a reaction to that," Mr. Hayes-Bautista said. "We used to worry about whether a true Chicano would eat a hamburger. My children would say, 'What? That's crazy. Eat a burger if you're hungry.'
"They don't worry about losing anything. They are surrounded by people like them."
So much so that in the age of "Livin' La Vida Loca" and "Yo quiero Taco Bell," when the Hispanic presence is increasingly prominent in the popular culture, Sofia Lopez's parents worry that their daughter, who is growing up in a mostly Hispanic neighborhood and attends a mostly Hispanic school, will end up too Americanized.
"Our culture gets lesser and lesser as times change," said Sofia's mother, Oralia Lopez.
The phenomenon of assimilation alongside cultural affirmation is not unlike that experienced by other ethnic groups as they set roots in this country, some experts say. But the Hispanic population is likely to make its presence more deeply felt, these experts say, because Latinos make up the largest ethnic and linguistic group to arrive; they retain ties to their geographically close countries of origin, and the migration is continuing. All those factors reinforce Hispanic culture and the Spanish language while at the same time, assimilation dilutes them.
But because Hispanic people fall under many categories, many sociologists said, it is far from certain what kind of imprint their growth will make on the nation or how exactly they will broaden what it means to be an "American." With origins in 22 countries, some Latinos are English speakers and others are Spanish speakers; some are Americans with centuries-old roots here and others have just arrived.
What it means to be "Hispanic," a Census Bureau label as much as anything, is a matter of opinion. Today among the Lopezes here, in an extended family of more than 50 members, some describe themselves as white, some as Mexican, some as American Tex-Mex. So diverse is the Hispanic population -- in race, color and ethnic background, among other things -- that statistics on income and education are misleading, demographers say.
And despite a persistent image of Latinos as poor, Spanish-speaking immigrants, census figures show that more than 60 percent speak English fluently and are native born, and market researchers classify 75 percent of Hispanic households as middle or upper class. Latinos make up about 11 percent of the nation's total population, with Mexican-Americans accounting for more than 60 percent of them.
Many sociologists say that all evidence points to continuing assimilation, and some see no major changes beyond an expansion of the visibility that large Hispanic populations already have in the 10 states where they are concentrated.
But these states, particularly California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois, are also pivotal in Presidential elections. That fact helps explain why candidates like Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas find themselves struggling to speak Spanish. As the Hispanic population numbers translate into votes, some Hispanic organizations predict, issues like quality of education and wage minimums, which disproportionately affect Latinos because of their high percentages of young people and large families, will become more prominent.
Yet for all the media attention and the rapid growth of Spanish-language media, Hispanic organizations and business leaders still express frustration, saying that Latinos seem invisible in the mainstream culture.
As the media rave over pop stars like Ricky Martin, who is Puerto Rican, several Latino groups are calling for a boycott of network television this month to protest the absence of Latinos in major roles.
"It's black and white, white and black -- it's not black, brown and white," said Jeff Valdez, a Los Angeles television producer who is negotiating with investors to form a cable network for English-speaking Latinos to fill what he calls "a huge void." He added, "The reality is that there are more opportunities, but it's still got a long way to go."
Cecilia Munoz, policy director for the National Council of La Raza, a civil rights organization, said Latinos ultimately need economic and educational equality, which she said she hoped would come with increased integration.
"We've been discovered again," she said. "One hopes we reach a point when we're no longer being discovered anymore."
In San Antonio, Mike U. Villareal, 28, a computer company owner with a master's degree from Harvard University, is running for Texas state representative in the Democratic primary next March. As he walked the streets of his district recently on a "listening tour" of voters, Mr. Villareal said he wanted to be part of what he expected to be Texas's transition from "a Republican, Anglo-dominant" state to one that is more inclusive of the state's entire population, currently 28 percent Hispanic, 12 percent non-Hispanic black and 58 percent non-Hispanic white.
The country he envisions 50 years from now is not a lot different from that of today, he said, except for "different characters at the decision-making table."
"The growth of the Latino population is a wrench thrown into our system that will require us to make positive adjustments," Mr. Villareal said. "Issues that are on our minds will be in the minds of the rest of the country because we're all in the same boat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lucy and Gabriel Lopez, left, at their home in Houston. For years they felt pressured to bury their Mexican heritage. Their granddaughter Sofia, below left, feels comfortable in both worlds. Instead of having a quinceanera, a lavish coming-of-age event that is a Mexican tradition, Sofia Lopez, left, chose to wait a year and have a Sweet 16 party. In Houston, with a Mass said in both English and Spanish, three 15-year-old girls clad in ball gowns celebrated their quinceanera. (Photographs by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HISPANIC-AMERICANS CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA SOFIA ANGELA LOPEZ (75%); JOSE ALBERTO MEDRANO (69%); LUCY LOPEZ (65%); JOHN LANTIGUA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



436 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
The Majors Are Still Leading All Leagues in Turnovers

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
With 17 teams changing hands in the 90's, Major League Baseball appears to be either such a poor investment that owners can't get rid of their clubs quickly enough, or such a good investment that prospective buyers stand in line and make offers the owners can't refuse.
Which way should a listener think Commissioner Bud Selig views the development? 
 "Do I find the turnover distressing? Yes, I do," Selig said after the owners met in Cooperstown, N.Y., last week. "We're desperately trying to find solutions that will stop all this buying and selling of franchises. When I came into baseball in the 70's, you had almost no turnovers."
Ah yes, the good old 70's. The first turnover of the 70's was executed by Selig himself, with partners, in their purchase of the Seattle Pilots and the team's move to Milwaukee on the eve of the 1970 season. That was the decade, too, in which George Steinbrenner and his limited partners (of whom nothing so limited ever existed) purchased the Yankees.
Brad Corbett bought the Texas Rangers, Ray Kroc the San Diego Padres, Bill Veeck the Chicago White Sox (again), Ted Turner the Atlanta Braves, Bob Lurie the San Francisco Giants, John McMullen the Houston Astros, Edward Bennett Williams the Baltimore Orioles, and a whole succession of businessmen -- three to be exact -- the Cleveland Indians.
The Indians, in fact, were turned over so often in the 70's that they alone kept the ownership committee in full-time employment.
The point isn't that Selig has selective memory or poor memory, but that the revolving changes of ownership in the 90's are nothing new. Increasing, yes, but new, no. From a dozen changes in the 70's to 15 in the 80's (including the sale of three teams twice each) to 17 in the 90's. Of course, if the owners last Wednesday had approved the sale of the Kansas City Royals and the Oakland Athletics, the 90's total would have reached 19. And that's not counting the pending sale of the Mets to Charles Dolan of Cablevision, the coming change at the Montreal Expos and the sale, yet again, of the Indians, though this time the owner, Richard Jacobs, is operating in a seller's market.
Baseball, however, isn't alone in the financial game of mergers and acquisitions. It's happening all around the nation, with media companies, accounting firms and investment outfits as well as other sports. The Knicks and the Rangers have been sold and bought so often this decade that the ink was hardly dry on some of the players' paychecks.
The proliferation of corporate owners in baseball will most likely add to the turnover, whether the commissioner and other officials like it or not.
Four teams that changed owners in this decade were ingested by corporations: the Braves by Time Warner in its purchase of Turner Broadcasting, the Los Angeles Dodgers by Rupert Murdoch and Fox, the Toronto Blue Jays by Interbrew of Belgium in its purchase of John Labatt Limited and the Anaheim Angels by the Walt Disney Company.
But just as typical of a giant conglomerate, Disney now looks to sell the Angels, as well as its hockey team, the Mighty Ducks. "I am very concerned about the Disney sale," Selig said. "I think the Disney sale points up exactly what I've been talking about here. Here's Disney, one of the great entertainment companies in the world. The fact that they're selling is a matter of concern."
But if Selig views Disney's plan as a commentary on the state of baseball ownership, Gary Bettman, the National Hockey League commissioner, has to have similar concerns. Or maybe it's simply that Disney, after getting a taste, has decided professional sports isn't the economic environment it wants to play in.
"There's a reason we've had the stunning turnover we've had since 1990-91," Selig said. "It's the deeper economic issues that are forcing it."
The commissioner sees those economic issues working on both sides of the deal. They are prompting owners to sell, he believes, but they are also making purchases difficult in some instances. He didn't have Murdoch's $311 million purchase of the Dodgers in mind.
"The game's economics have made the sale of clubs extremely difficult," he said. "Quite candidly, the smaller the market, the more difficult they are. We've had a huge turnover in ownership and therefore we're extremely sensitive. We have people who come in and a year or two later are ready to go back out. They say they wish they had known; nobody had told them."
Selig spoke about the problems in the context of the owners' decision to withhold approval of the prospective new owners of the Royals and the Athletics. He declined to offer specific reasons for the stance, but it was hard not to infer reasons from the comments he did make.
"No action was taken on the Kansas City proposed transaction," Selig said, "while additional alternatives are considered." Translation: the Royals should find a different buyer, one with fewer investors than the Miles Prentice group of 42 and with more money to spend on operations.
"The proposed sale of Oakland was tabled," the commissioner said, "pending receipt of the report of the commissioner's blue ribbon panel on baseball economics." Translation: the panel may propose that baseball abandon the Bay Area as a two-team market and recommend the Athletics move. "What we're trying to do," Selig said, "is make sure with each sale it is a long-term viable solution to baseball's problems."
By not approving the Oakland group, however, the owners might have invited legal action, if not by the prospective buyers then by the City of Oakland and Alameda County.
 
Losing 20 Games
This is a critical time for Brian Kingman. He has spent a decade rooting for himself, and now he is in the final two weeks of his quest. Steve Trachsel and his three possible starts are all that stand in Kingman's way.
"This has been a key year for me," Kingman said, "the last year of the century."
Kingman pitched for the Oakland Athletics and lost 20 games in 1980. No pitcher has been a 20-game loser since. "It was an embarrassment and a painful feeling at the time," Kingman said. "Then a few years went by and I said why isn't anyone else doing this? I decided I wanted to hold onto it and be the last one to lose 20 in the 20th century."
Trachsel has 17 losses. The Cubs' schedule would allow him to make three more starts, the last possibly on the final day of the season.
When Trachsel suffered his 14th loss July 24 at Shea Stadium, he seemed to be a lock for 20 losses. But he has lost only 3 of his 10 starts since then.
"He still has a chance; I don't want to celebrate too soon," said Kingman, now 45 and part owner of a check-cashing chain in southern California. "He could squeeze by. I wonder if he had 19 would they make him pitch on the last day of the year."
Kingman has made a study of 20-game losers. He found that Phil Niekro lost 20 the year before he did, that Cy Young was a 20-game loser three times, that Walter Johnson was a two-timer and that 19 pitchers in the Hall of Fame lost 20. Also, the same year Kingman lost 20 with a 3.83 earned run average, Dennis Leonard won 20 with a 3.79 e.r.a.
His worst memory of his career year might be that he reached his nadir playing for Billy Martin.
"If you could think of the worst manager to lose 20 for, it was Billy Martin," Kingman said. "He liked to have a scapegoat for any loss, umpires, coaches, whoever. That year it was me a lot." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (54%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (51%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (82%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (82%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); HOUSTON ASTROS (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); HOUSTON ASTROS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (82%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (82%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); HOUSTON ASTROS (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); HOUSTON ASTROS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (51%); TEXAS, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (54%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); APPROVALS (61%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY CHARLES DOLAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



437 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: The Air and the S.U.V.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A Sept. 15 Business Day article describes how car companies are promoting high-mileage light-truck versions of small cars in order to sell more high-consumption sport utility vehicles, since "surveys show that with gasoline prices low, consumers care very little about fuel economy." However, "as buyers have switched from cars to light trucks, fuel economy has declined, increasing the nation's dependence on imported oil and increasing emissions of gases that many scientists have linked to global warming." 
 Although I doubt there will be a sudden epiphany among S.U.V. enthusiasts over the dangers of global warming, surely they will listen to the warning about dependence on foreign oil. The American economy, however buoyant, is not bulletproof. The unlimited joys of the marketplace really do have limits, and we are reaching them.
 
LARRY SOLWAY
Toronto, Sept. 15, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GREENHOUSE EFFECT MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (87%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); EMISSIONS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); GREENHOUSE GASES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: SOLWAY, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



438 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 1;Column 4;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1896 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Rethinking Population At a Global Milestone

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
HALF a century ago, just as the world was about to give birth to dozens of new countries, two great Asian nations, China and India, were remaking themselves in starkly differing ways as models for an age of nation-building. The Chinese Communists, who completed their long march to power in Beijing 50 years ago next week, chose top-down re-engineering, overturning traditions in the name of ideology, while India emerged from a successful nonviolent independence movement in 1947 with a strong commitment to British-style democracy with an Indian face.
For what was then known as the Free World, there was no contest. 
 "India emerged as a significant leader of the newly independent states choosing the path of democracy," said Phillips Talbot, a former Assistant Secretary of State who has been watching India since the 1950's. "It looked very promising."
To Americans, he said, "China was a Communist country. It was antagonistic to us. Whatever it was doing it was doing by very strong authoritarian policies."
On Oct. 12, when the world officially declares that it has reached the 6 billion population mark, there will be cause to look again at China and India, still separated from one another by psychological and political walls as high as the Himalayas that divide them geographically. Together, India with 1 billion people and China with 1.2 billion account for more than one-third of all humans on Earth. And once again, their paths diverge -- this time in human terms.
China, which foundered in Maoist excesses in its first three post-revolution decades, took stock of itself in the late 1970's and, under Deng Xiaoping, began to rewrite its policies.
Even as they issued the harsh decree that families could have only one child, the Chinese also put together a comprehensive package of changes in the economy, rural land ownership and social services -- and the country began to take off. Lamentably, Western experts often emphasize, political democracy was not part of the package. But the sweeping changes paid off in many other ways.
Semi-socialist India, on the other hand, lagged in introducing fundamental economic and social reforms to match China's -- perhaps, ironically, because in a democracy such measures have to have some popular support. There was also history: India's legendary first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, set his sights on big industries, not village schools or rural doctors.
If current trends continue, India will surpass China as the most populous nation in the next half century. It enters a new millennium with work still to be done on a gigantic scale that the world cannot ignore.
Indians vote for their national leaders and enjoy free expression, but democratic India has not delivered on its promise of a better life for most Indians. Authoritarian China has done much better on that score. Nearly 83 percent of Chinese can read and write; only 53 percent of Indians are literate, according to the United Nations (India says it's 64 percent), and most of those who can read are men. China boasts a female primary school enrollment of 99.9 percent; nearly a third of Indian girls are not in school. More than half the children under five in India are malnourished and underweight; in China the figure is 16 percent. About half the Indian population lives on less than a dollar a day; fewer than 1 in 3 Chinese do.
Astonishingly for an open society, India also falls behind China in communications. The Chinese have 56 telephone lines for every 1,000 people; India has 19. There are 6 personal computers for every 1,000 Chinese and 2.1 for each 1,000 Indians. In economic terms, China's exports are more than five times those of India.
It has not always been this way. Amartya Sen, the Nobel laureate in economics and author of a new book, "Development As Freedom" (Knopf), always points out that democratic India, which got a head start in the 1950's, escaped the kind of famines it had suffered under colonialism because famines result when leaders react badly to nature's whims, and in India, popular demands for effective action could be reflected in the media. China, under the Great Leap Forward, endured one of history's greatest famines, as did Ukraine under Stalin and Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge, because of disastrously wrong-headed agricultural policies. But the last 20 years or so have been different in China, where modernization, openings to a free market and now prototype elections have made a dent in rural poverty and its mindsets. Economic reforms also updated China's cities in a generation.
WHAT is going on here?
Could it be that China's draconian population policies, including enforced abortion and impoverishment for those who didn't comply, are paying off in a hurry?
Could it be true that democracy is not the most efficient way to bring a country out of poverty? Or is it that political leadership, more than the political system, matters most?
Professor Sen, an Indian citizen who is the Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, is on the side of caution. "Mere democracy may not be adequate," he said last week in remarks to the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs in New York. "But that doesn't mean that democracy is not important." At a time when every hoary old assumption about what makes nations prosper is being rethought, political democracy may be only one of a number of components, he said. Another is population control.
"The key in talking about population growth," said Lester Brown, president of the Worldwatch Institute in Washington, "is not whether India is a democracy or not, but whether there is leadership. By leadership, I mean leaders who will talk about the problem, discuss it and what it means to the next generation and the generation to follow."
Tavleen Singh, one of India's most acerbic political columnists, believes that when political will is missing, nothing else works. She posed a few questions to politicians recently in the newsmagazine India Today. "Would, for instance, our political parties like to explain to us why the image of the average Indian child, 50 years after Independence, is that of a scrawny, spindle-legged, barefoot creature who ekes out an existence by begging at traffic lights?" she wrote. "And amid the shameful squalor that is most of India, would they like to explain why our political leaders live in huge bungalows set in sprawling gardens that we taxpayers pay for?"
She points to the absence of effective welfare and population policies, and the persistence of the Hindu caste system, as causes for India's slide to the social levels of sub-Saharan Africa. Indian socialism, on the wane in any case, never had the strong welfare-state component found in Europe. Now, as India adds more than 18 million people a year to its population, will there be a demand for harsher measures for population control?
Ashish Bose, an Indian demographer, says no. "Our masses will not accept any coercive method of family planning," he said. He, like many development experts, says population control can in any case no longer be looked at in a vacuum. What good is a family planning clinic, he asks, if no road goes there?
IN other countries, as within the varied states of India, moreover, surprising contradictions point up the traps in seeking quick answers for why population control seems to work in some places but not in others. In Bangladesh and Indonesia, which were under military rule, private development and environmental organizations began to flourish, along with successful family planning programs of all kinds.
General Suharto, the President deposed last year in Indonesia, opened condom factories and encouraged "supermarket style" local family planning centers. There were none of those grimy, unsanitary sterilization camps that are often all that is available to the majority of rural Indian women, and no harsh laws like those in China that prevent most families from having more than one child.
Yet Adrienne Germaine, president of the Women's International Health Coalition, which supported women's groups in Bangladesh, says this doesn't indicate that autocracy or human rights violations are necessary for successful population programs. "While there have sometimes been lapses in the quality of care and the voluntary nature of the programs in Bangladesh or Indonesia," she said, "over all, you haven't seen some of the draconian measures taken by China."
"But what is important to mention is that while, yes, the Chinese Government was autocratic, they were autocratic also in insisting that all children should be in school and all people should have basic health care and all people should have housing," Ms. Germaine said. The package improved the lives of many Chinese, creating more support for the family planning program than many outsiders would expect, some experts say.
"Chinese expanded freedoms of a different kind," Professor Sen argues, adding that China's critics often do not recognize that educational opportunity and universal health care liberate people to live longer, more fulfilling lives. Professor Sen also says that India has missed opportunities that might have made its performance more comparable to China's. When lower fertility is harnessed to democracy it creates a dynamo, he says -- and more so if literacy and economic opportunities for women as well as basic health services are added to the mix. He faults much of India, including liberal economic thinkers, for not seeing these connections.
Mark Malloch Brown, the new administrator at the United Nations Development Program, is on the side of patience. "India is changing," he said. "Its sheer size means that there's a persistent rural backwater, where caste, a lack of basic services, poverty, means that change is a hell of a lot slower than we've all hoped. But I think we are arguing about speed rather than final outcome.
"My point is to be a bit more agnostic about which policies work, about final outcomes," he said. "Both countries -- India and China -- are going through historical spasms on development issues. One made this extraordinary human engineering intervention -- and if this was a hundred-yard sprint, they've won. But you know, societies are a marathon, and it's just too soon to be so declarative."
 
Now, You Can Have 5,999,999,999 Friends
HOW did demographers decide that on Oct. 12 the world will have 6 billion people? Projections are based on fertility, mortality and migration estimates. The United Nations Population Division estimated the mid-year total and projected that it has been growing by 148 people a minute (247 births minus 99 deaths), said Joseph Chamie, the division's director. Other findings:
* The highest growth rate was 2.04 percent in the late 1960's. This year, it is about 1.31 percent.
* In 1965, 75 million people were migrants from another country. Today, 125 million are.
* Life expectancy at birth is 65 years -- an increase of 20 years since 1950.
* The median age increased from 23.5 years in 1950 to 26.4 years today.
* In 2050, population is projected to reach 8.9 billion. Asia will account for 59 percent, Africa for 20 percent and Latin America 9 percent.
* If this page were filled with periods, (69 dots per line in 6, 157-line columns) 6 billion of them would take up about 92,000 pages.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about population control in India and China misstated the name of a health organization and misspelled the surname of its president. The group is the International Women's Health Coalition, not the Women's International Health Coalition. Its president is Adrienne Germain, not Germaine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A teacher conducts a family planning meeting in the impoverished Sangam Vihar area of New Delhi. (Associated Press); In Dhaka, Bangladesh, children sleep on a walkway. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 5); Bicycles, rickshaws, buses and pedestrians jam a street in Dkaha, Bangladesh. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); A two-child family in China. The parents were fined. (Seth Faison/The New York Times); In Karachi, Pakistan, a doctor gives medicine and the equivalent of $1.59 to women who have been sterilized. (Reuters); During a heat wave in New Delhi, a child sleeps in a makeshift swing under a bridge. (Associated Press)(pg. 4)
 
Graphs:
 
"A Glimpse Into How the Six Billion Live"
 
Africa
Current Life Expectancy: 51
Fertility Rate -- Average number of children per woman: 5.1
Contraceptive Use by percent of currently married women: 20
 
Asia
Current Life Expectancy: 66
Fertility Rate -- Average number of children per woman: 2.6
Contraceptive Use by percent of currently married women: 60
 
Europe
Current Life Expectancy: 73
Fertility Rate -- Average number of children per woman: 1.4
Contraceptive Use by percent of currently married women: 72
 
Latin America and Caribbean
Current Life Expectancy: 69
Fertility Rate -- Average number of children per woman: 2.7
Contraceptive Use by percent of currently married women: 66
 
North America
Current Life Expectancy: 77
Fertility Rate -- Average number of children per woman: 1.9
Contraceptive Use by percent of currently married women: 71
 
Countries or Areas With Highest Infant Mortality
Deaths/1,000 live births.
 
Sierra Leone: 170
Afghanistan: 151
Malawi: 138
East Timor: 135
 
Lowest
 
Japan: 4
Singapore: 5
Norway: 5
Germany: 5
 
Largest Urban Areas
Population in millions.
 
Tokyo: 28.8
Mexico City: 17.8
Sao Paulo, Brazil: 17.5
Bombay, India: 17.4
New York: 16.5
Shanghai: 14.0
Los Angeles: 13.0
Lagos, Nigeria: 12.8
Calcutta, India: 12.7
Buenos Aires: 12.3
 
Countries With Greatest Inmigration -- 1970-95
Net number, in millions.
 
United States: 16.7
Russia: 4.1
Saudi Arabia: 3.4
India: 3.3
 
Out-migration
 
Mexico: -6.0
Bangladesh: -4.1
Afghanistan: -4.1
Philippines: -2.9
 
Oldest Countries
Median age of population, 1999.
 
Italy: 40.2
Japan: 40.2
Germany: 39.7
Sweden: 39.7
 
Youngest
 
Uganda: 15.0
Niger: 15.8
Yemen: 15.9
Congo Republic: 15.9
 
"Dropping Populations," plots populations, actual and projected, of Russia, Japan and Italy from 1950 projected through 2050.
 
(Source: United Nations Population Division)
 
"Six Billion and Counting"
The United Nations Population Division estimated that the population of the world will reach six billion on Oct. 12. Here is a look at how we got to this milestone, and where the world is projected to be on the basis of current trends and predictable developments.
 
World Population Has Soared . . .
From 1804, when the world's population passed the one billion mark, it took 123 years to reach two billion. It took only 12 years to go from five to six billion. In the next centuries, growth is expected to gradually slow as fertility rates drop and populations age. The world's population is expected to level out at just under 10 billion around the year 2200. Graph tracks population from 1804 thorough a projected 2050.
 
. . . With Recent Growth Mostly In Poorer Nations
Since 1950, the growth rates for less developed countries have been much higher than those of more developed countries. As a result, most of the net addition to the world's population over the past half century has taken place in the world's poorer areas. Graph tracks population growth in more and in less developed countries, from 1950 through a projected 2025.
 
*More developed countries and areas include North America, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Less developed countries include all of Africa, all of Asia except Japan, the Transcaucasian and Central Asian countries of the former Soviet Union, all of Latin America and the Caribbean, and all of Oceania except Australia and New Zealand.
 
The Most From a Few
Sixty percent of the world's population increase is being contributed by only 10 countries, with 21 percent contributed by China and India. Net annual additions, 1995-2000, in millions.
 
India -- 16.0
China -- 11.4
Pakistan -- 4.0
Indonesia -- 2.9
Nigeria -- 2.5
United States -- 2.3
Brazil -- 2.2
Bangladesh -- 2.1
Mexico -- 1.5
Philippines -- 1.5
 
China and India
India is expected to surpass China as the world's most populous country, making the differnce in population density even more extreme. Graph tracks population in China and in India, from 1950 through 2050. It also shows population density for the two countries, over the same period.
 
(Sources: United Nations Population Division; U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WALLS (CPH) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (67%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (67%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); INDIA (99%); BANGLADESH (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); OCEANIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MALAWI (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UGANDA (79%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); EARTH (79%); HIMALAYAS (58%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); KOLKATA, INDIA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (71%); 

COMPANY: WALLS AS (67%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); INDIA-NET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); INDIA-NET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); INDIA (99%); BANGLADESH (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); OCEANIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MALAWI (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UGANDA (79%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); EARTH (79%); HIMALAYAS (58%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); KOLKATA, INDIA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); MILLENNIUM (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); FAMILY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



439 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 94; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: In God's Place

BYLINE: By Alan Lightman; Alan Lightman, the author of "Einstein's Dreams," is Burchard Professor of Humanities and a senior lecturer in physics at M.I.T.

 BODY:
Giovanni di Paolo's 15th-century painting "The Creation of the World and the Expulsion From Paradise," which hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, offers an unexpected synthesis of Western art, religion and thought.
The picture has a split-level appearance. On the right is the title scene: a grove of fruit trees, the Garden of Eden and the frail, ashamed figures of Adam and Eve being shoved out by an angel. The left half is dominated by concentric spheres. At the middle is the earth, center of the universe, encircled by the planets and sun. An outermost sphere contains the stars, all straight out of Aristotle's "On the Heavens." Above this cosmic hierarchy floats a divine God, who gravely reaches down with an index finger to spin His heavenly spheres. 
 This painting presents a doubled portrait of the fierce boundary between human and divine. Aristotle made all terrestrial phenomena out of earth, air, water and fire. For the moon, the sun and the stars, however, he decided he needed to introduce a completely new kind of substance: the divine ether. Adam and Eve were banished from Eden for crossing a more local boundary and eating from the tree of knowledge, God's knowledge. As it turns out, the forbidding separations of substance and place in Aristotle's cosmology seem to resonate with the forbidden knowledge, transgression and guilt in Judeo-Christian theology. In both cases, and on both sides of di Paolo's painting, the proper domain of human existence and understanding is severely restricted.
Indeed, for centuries Western culture was ingrained with the notion that some areas of knowledge are inaccessible, or forbidden, to human possession. In this view, humankind is entitled to comprehend only what God deigns to reveal. Zeus chained Prometheus to a rock for giving fire, the secret of the gods and the wellspring of advanced civilization, to mortal man. St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-74) distinguished between scientific knowledge, discoverable by the human mind, and divine knowledge, "higher than man's knowledge." Divine knowledge could "not be sought by man through his reason, nevertheless, once . . . revealed by God it must be accepted by faith." When Dante asks the divine Beatrice about the mysteries of the moon, she replies that "the opinion of mortals errs where the key of sense does not unlock." When Adam, in Milton's "Paradise Lost" (1667), questions the angel Raphael about celestial mechanics, Raphael offers some vague hints and then says that "the rest from Man or Angel the great Architect did wisely to conceal, and not divulge His secrets to be scann'd by them who ought rather admire."
The idea that there are limits to the rightful scope of human knowledge is, of course, partly a cultural belief. Surrounding it is an entire worldview, an understanding of how the cosmos is put together, spiritually and physically, and where we fit into the grand scheme. But the idea is also deeply psychological. It is an introspection, a state of mind that subtly imprisons individual thinkers as well as societies, and its effects and ramifications cannot possibly be weighed. No one can say how the history of civilization would have changed if God had never forbidden us to taste from that tree. However, a number of developments over the 16th and 17th centuries did succeed in introducing a new belief: that the entirety of the universe, at least its physical parts, was knowable and discoverable by human beings. This new belief, a belief in the unfettered entitlement to knowledge, was the most important intellectual development along the lengthy time line of the past millennium.
Perhaps the most glorious culmination of the new thinking was Isaac Newton's "Principia" (1687). This monumental treatise established fundamental ideas like inertia and force, articulated general laws of motion of bodies under general forces and proposed a specific law for the force of gravity. Newton's book was unprecedented in the history of science and played a pivotal role in the birth of modern science. But what was most important about Newton's work was not his particular law of gravity, great as it is, but the universality and unbounded application of that law. The same gravity that caused an apple to fall from a tree also caused the moon to orbit the earth, and these trajectories, and an infinity of others, could be mathematically calculated from equations that the English physicist and mathematician had discovered on his own. The heavenly bodies were, after all, physical things, like rocks -- or inkwells tossed in frustration against a stone fireplace. The "Principia" dealt a mortal blow to Aristotle's strong division between earthly and cosmic phenomena.
Beneath Newton's idea of the universality of gravity, in turn, lay the implicit assumption that the physical universe was knowable by man. This was a new idea in the evolution of human self-awareness, a psychological turning point, a liberation, an empowerment. Without this idea we might never have had Newton. Nor would we have had the intellectual and scientific breakthroughs that followed: Lavoisier's discovery of oxygen and the beginnings of modern chemistry, Mendel's seminal work on genetics, Dalton's concept of the atom, Darwin and Wallace's theory of evolution and natural selection, Maxwell's formulation of the laws of electricity and magnetism, Einstein's relativity, Hubble's discovery of the expanding universe, Watson and Crick's unraveling of DNA and countless other scientific discoveries.
Even Newton's contemporaries realized that the great physicist had achieved something far deeper than his individual laws. Roger Cotes, in his introduction to the second edition of the "Principia," wrote that Newton had reached "discoveries of which the mind of man was thought incapable before. . . . The gates are now set open." Submersed in a scientific and technological culture as we are today -- a culture that has been so totally shaped by telephones and microchips, daily reports on the genes of disease or the recession rate of galaxies -- it is hard for us to conceive any limitations in knowledge. All things are our province. The universe is our oyster. We are mostly oblivious to the intellectual history that led us to this point. And we take for granted the active part being played by our own psyches.
What produced the new psychology found in Newton's "Principia"? Certainly, changes in religious thought played a role. Martin Luther's proclamations of 1517, which sparked the Protestant Reformation, helped diminish the authority of the church. Despite Luther's vicious anti-Semitism, his argument that every person should be able to read and interpret the Bible for herself, without lock-stepping with the priesthood, encouraged a certain freedom of mind. This religious freedom spread. For example, the subject matter of art turned from almost exclusively religious themes to landscapes, still lifes, interiors and other broad explorations of the secular and natural worlds. Compare Masaccio or Michelangelo with Rembrandt or Vermeer.
There were scientific discoveries as well. On Nov. 11, 1572, soon after sunset, the Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe sighted an intensely bright object in the constellation Cassiopeia that he realized had not been there before. Brahe was the first person to prove that such novae lay beyond the orbit of the moon, within the celestial realm. Brahe had discovered an exploding star, and his discovery exploded the centuries-old belief that the stars were eternal and constant. The divine perfection of the heavens was further questioned when the Italian physicist Galileo turned his new telescope to the moon in 1610 and found the surface "to be not smooth, even, and perfectly spherical, as the great crowd of philosophers have believed about this and other heavenly bodies, but, on the contrary, to be uneven, rough and crowded with depressions and bulges."
Also of enormous influence, in the decades just preceding Newton, were the scientific and philosophical ideas of Rene Descartes. Most of the great thinkers throughout history have debated the kind of knowledge that is knowable by the human mind, but philosophers before Descartes assumed that at least some certain knowledge already existed. Descartes, for the first time, began a philosophical system by doubting everything, even his own existence. After convincing himself of his own reality ("I think, therefore I am"), he entered a long meditation that eventually established the existence of God.
Descartes helped us to question. He also prefigured Newton's idea of universality of physical law by proposing a universal mechanism himself, namely his "vortices," which swirled here and there through space, like whirlpools in an ocean, directing the motions of planets and other heavenly bodies. Although Descartes's vortices lacked quantitative description and proved finally unworkable, they had the psychological import of explaining and unifying a vast range of terrestrial and cosmic phenomena under one rational system.
One way of looking at these developments is that they altered and clarified the distinction between what one could call a physical universe and a spiritual universe. Little by little, the sacred geography of Aristotle was replaced by a more amorphous and subtle map of the world. In this map, there exists a material universe, which includes all matter and energy: electrons and atoms, light and heat, brains and stars and galaxies. This vast cosmos is subject to the inquiries of science and to rational mathematical laws that we can discover with our minds.
Coexisting with this physical universe is a spiritual one, not quantifiable, not located in space, not made of atoms and molecules but, to believers, pervasive nonetheless. Each universe poses an infinity of important questions. It is the physical universe, not the spiritual, that is the domain of science. Science has everything to say about the physical universe and nothing to say about its spiritual counterpart. Science can push back the equations of modern cosmology to less than a nanosecond after the "big bang," but science cannot answer the question of why the universe came into being in the first place or whether it has any purpose. Science can, in principle, explain all human behavior in terms of biochemical processes in the brain, but science can never determine what is ethical behavior.
These new perceptions did not happen quickly, neatly or with finality. Like all deep psychological seeds, the idea that some areas of knowledge are off-limits to human beings is not easily excised from our consciousness. The scientist in Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein" (1818), a novel significantly subtitled "The Modern Prometheus," laments, "Learn from me . . . how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge, and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow." Some of the horror at the first test of the atom bomb in New Mexico was surely that we had unleashed forces greater than our nature. Soon after the Second World War, J. Robert Oppenheimer, the head of the Manhattan Project, told an audience that "we thought of the legend of Prometheus, of that deep sense of guilt in man's new powers." The troubled public reaction to Dolly, the first adult mammal to be cloned, shows that our fear remains. The sheep's human manipulators were described by The New York Times as having "suddenly pried open one of the most forbidden -- and tantalizing -- doors of modern life."
Most likely, each new door opened will continue to disturb us and play upon our guilt. We are advanced and we are primitive at the same time. We are Newton's flight of mind and we are Prometheus chained to a rock, we are Watson and Crick and we are Adam and Eve. All of it, all of the centuries of liberation and imprisonment, creation and dread, live together in one house. And each new door opened will disturb us. Yet we will keep opening the doors; we cannot be stopped. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); NEW ISSUES (77%); ASTROPHYSICS (75%); 

PERSON: LIGHTMAN, ALAN; NEWTON, ISAAC (1642-1727) ISAAC NEWTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



440 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Ditto

BYLINE: By John R. G. Turner; John R. G. Turner, the Professor of Evolutionary Genetics at the University of Leeds, serves on the committee that advises the British Government on ethical animal experimentation.

 BODY:

THE CLONE AGE
 Adventures in the New World
 of Reproductive Technology.
 By Lori B. Andrews.
 262 pp. New York:
 Henry Holt & Company. $25. 
 "Childlessness," a woman said recently on British television, "is like being bereaved for the whole of your life." With up to one couple in six in America facing childlessness, medical technologies offering remedies are huge business. In "The Clone Age" Lori B. Andrews, a Chicago lawyer, reviews her career as an advocate and adviser to governments on legal and moral aspects of assisted reproduction, from the birth of Louise Brown, the world's first in vitro fertilized baby in 1978, to the threshold of the clone age.
Hers is a fine and readable book: the presentation of science and the law is lucid and nontechnical. She has a wonderful dry sense of humor. Last year, in a Quebec village, she met Rael (born Claude Vorilhon), founder of the Raelians, a group of 40,000 believers in "the gospel according to the . . . aliens," for whom cloning is a central mandate of their religion. "I try to conduct my interview with Rael and scientific director Brigitte Bosselier in the serious manner befitting a talk with a prophet. The setting makes it difficult, though. . . . Brigitte Bosselier is dressed like Cleopatra. Rael is dressed in a white Elvis jumpsuit. . . . In the future, Rael says, cloning will be a form of eternal life." But then one of his subordinate bishops adds: "Except . . . stupid people won't be cloned. Imagine how bad it would be to be stupid for eternity."
Andrews finds that the rewards for helping the childless drive the technology forward at a great pace. Religious opponents of the new reproductive technology have largely lost an uphill fight in those parts of the developed world where the Vatican's influence is limited: it requires a strong sense of abstract ethics to see a ball of eight embryonic cells as a human being, an effect exploited to the full when one of Britain's foremost reproductive scientists announced success of a particularly controversial technique that involved disposing of male embryos (addressing a genetic condition manifested only in boys; usually in assisted reproduction unwanted embryos of both sexes are disposed of) by introducing the public to the delighted parents and the delightful and fit (and female) baby on television. Another British assisted mother recently said the "little" surplus embryos seem "totally inconsequential."
Nevertheless, the denial of Federal financing in America has pushed research and development into the private sector. Scientists and doctors can get very rich: Andrews consistently portrays them as considerably greedy. The doctors might retort, "When did you see a thin lawyer, or a fat client?" Doctors are clearly often motivated as well to help fellow human beings, and scientists by a love of their craft and the recognition they can win. Not necessarily amoral, they do not like the brakes being put on by ethically concerned lay people. When Andrews resigned from the chair of the working group on the ethical, legal and social implications of the Human Genome Project in frustration at the way it had been tied in economic subservience to the very scientists it was attempting to monitor, she was told by James D. Watson, the project's first director: "I wanted a group that would talk and talk and never get anything done. . . . I wanted as its head Shirley Temple Black."
Some of the greatest problems arise where private interest and public good are in conflict. We approve of parents who provide the best of upbringings for their children to make them cleverer and fitter, and think it is therefore irrational to condemn attempts to achieve these same ends through genetic engineering. But selectively producing boys, which parents in much of the world would do, has incalculable social consequences from distortion of the sex ratio in the next generation. Likewise, it is of advantage to be tall - not absolutely, but a little taller than the next guy. If parents engineer height in children, they will start an escalating race that in a few generations will produce a population that at the least hits its heads on the ceiling, and at worst starts to show physical defects in terms of body proportions.
Our moral attitudes and laws lag behind the technology. A few decades ago one could have only two biological parents: now a child can have five or six "parents": sperm donor, egg donor, surrogate mother and commissioning couple (or even menage trois!). But of the thousands of children now born with the assistance of new technologies, most must be stories of as much happiness as can come to people in an imperfect world. Andrews, as a lawyer, encounters the minority for whom life has made a mess of people, or people have made a mess of life. The underlying tenor of the book is thus misleadingly gloomy: take the single man who commissioned a baby by surrogacy, and then murdered the child.
Contrariwise, the orthodox method of reproduction itself has created equal heartache and legal problems. Recently in Britain a mother, along with her son, was convicted of murdering her seven-month-pregnant daughter. They were unable to face the shame brought on the family by the fact that the baby owed nothing to the daughter's husband (expatriate in Asia) and everything to her childhood sweetheart. It is hard to imagine assisted reproduction could generate anything more tragic.
At the next frontier, cloning offers the hope of children for even more of the childless. Andrews has favored most advances in reproductive technology, especially when they have helped women, and has striven for precedents and legislation that will result in humane outcomes. When it comes to cloning, however, she declares that, seeing where it is bound, she is jumping ship. Her objections are two. The first is of the kind that can be raised to any change in reproductive technology: that is, that the changes create human frustrations and legal problems for which we are not equipped. Thus if Bill Gates were to clone himself as "Bill Gates 5.1," in some states his parents would be the clone's mother and father, and Gates would be only the brother. In others, the surrogate mother would have sole parental rights. Further, there is still no legal bar to cloning people without their consent or knowledge - say, from hair follicles in their hairdresser's sweepings. Andrews has swallowed this kind of gnat repeatedly with other forms of reproductive technology and can hardly be gagging at it now; the law will never provide paradise on earth, but with help from people of Andrews's quality, it copes.
The second objection is that there is something fundamentally different and horrific about cloning: whereas existing technologies merely create a new genetically unique individual, the identity of the clone with a pre-existing individual is especially dangerous. This has been described elsewhere as depriving the individual of the fundamental right to a unique human identity, a weird legal concept that Andrews wisely avoids. She ducks also the point that identical twins already constitute clones with whom we have no particular social or legal difficulties. The problem she focuses on is the strange and unreasonable expectations that people may have of the clone, that she or he will perform equally with the "parent" (what does one call such a person?). The problem of excessive and unrealistic parental expectation has always existed ("your elder brother was so good at math"), but has sharpened alarmingly, for instance, with some of the parents who have undergone artificial insemination from elite sperm banks, like the one that used to be stocked with the semen of Nobel laureates. Here is another question (Andrews misses it): What will happen when a middle-aged father is confronted by an adult "daughter" who perfectly resembles the young woman he married 20 years before?
Personhood and human uniqueness do not reside in a unique sequence of DNA but in some phenomenon within the developed mind: identical twins have identical DNA but separate minds, and are not socially, legally or morally one person. For all its genetic uniqueness, we have difficulty in recognizing an eight-celled embryo as a person. A clone is not the same person as the one cloned: cloning does not cheat death. A clone, with his or her strange and time-shifted identity with the "parent," will be a very odd child indeed. But the economic rewards, and the legal and cultural diversity of our planet, surely mean that humans will be cloned, sooner. I share the regret of one of her colleagues at Andrews's announcement that she is leaving the field: we have need of her.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sergio Ruzzier)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CLONE AGE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOETHICS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLONING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ETHICS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAWYERS (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (69%); LITERATURE (69%); 

PERSON: TURNER, JOHN R G (PROF); ANDREWS, LORI B LORI B ANDREWS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1999



441 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1959 words

HEADLINE: The Premiere Is Sometimes The Easy Part;
New Operas Face Hurdles In Joining the Repertory

SERIES: BIRTH OF AN OPERA: The Plight of the Composer.

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
The imminent arrival of two major works William Bolcom's treatment of the Arthur Miller play "A View From the Bridge" at Lyric Opera of Chicago on Oct. 9, and John Harbison's adaptation of the F. Scott Fitzgerald masterpiece "The Great Gatsby," at the Metropolitan Opera in New York on Dec. 20 -- makes this an important season for American opera even before it gets started. But even more important, perhaps, is the decision by the companies to swap the works, with "Gatsby" scheduled for Chicago next fall and "View" presented at the Met in a following season.
Such a trade of new works between major companies is unprecedented. And the mutual buzz surrounding the two works together (60 critics have already arranged to review "View"), plus the jump-start on a mutual future that the companies' trade agreement insures, is good news for an art form struggling for the publicity that can overcome its audience's demonstrated resistance to new work. 
 But to mitigate the giddy optimism, consider Libby Larsen. Ms. Larsen's fifth symphony had its world premiere on Friday, performed by the Colorado Symphony in Denver. Chances are it has a future. All four of her others have been recorded, on Koch International, and all have been performed more than once. Her first symphony, heard initially in Minneapolis in 1985, has had some 35 performances since then, five in the last year.
"A composer can expect a life for a well-written piece," said Ms. Larsen, who is 49 and lives in Minneapolis. But that applies to only part of her work. She has also written nine operas. All have been produced. Once.
"I came to learn I was a composer because I was writing opera," Ms. Larsen said. "If the world were my oyster, I would just write opera. The orchestra world looks at a new work as part of a flow of repertory; the opera companies look at a new work as a production that happens."
Ms. Larsen exemplifies the plight of American opera composers, who often spend years creating works that vanish for decades, if not forever, after a few performances. In opera, more than in any other performing art, the loyalty of audiences for the established canon overwhelms an interest in contemporary contributions.
Imagine a publishing industry in which Trollope was a best seller and Updike, Roth, Doctorow, Oates and Morrison were mere exercises in altruism by devoted literary editors; or a film business in which a Spike Lee movie couldn't get a booking except as a second feature to "Citizen Kane"; or a Broadway where Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber and Stephen Sondheim could never distract an audience from "Show Boat."
The situation is particularly frustrating, and not just for composers but for the American opera world in general, which is, in terms of overall audience and the skill of its practitioners, at a high point.
"In this country, huge numbers of operas are commissioned every year, and we have a huge number of gifted singers," said Linda S. Golding, the president of Boosey & Hawkes, a leading music publisher. "We've got all the elements to produce thoughtful, challenging, contemporary opera all the time. Where we have difficulty is in how to market, promote and fund-raise for these works after the initial performances. The composers and the works suffer, and the audiences do too, from not being exposed to them."
The problem is complex because its defining premises are seemingly contradictory. On the one hand is the demonstrated antipathy of opera audiences for new works. Contemporary classical music has yet to overcome its reputation for prizing intellectualism over lyricism, which discouraged audience-building for half a century; so did English-language opera, which many traditionalists perceive as anathema or, worse, ersatz. Changing those perceptions is a glacial business, and in the meantime opera companies, most of which budget with presumptions of nearly selling out, have to stay in business. "Carmen" is a sure thing.
On the other hand, world premieres are often deemed risk-worthy by opera companies precisely because they are new; brand-new, first-ever, is sexy, promotable. The second time around, a work is just not new enough. And such a disadvantage in promotability is discouraging for companies that are committed to presenting contemporary work but are competing in a cultural marketplace that is more crowded and clamorous than ever.
The result is that though opera companies gamely persist in commissioning new work -- about 125 operas have had their world premieres in the United States and Canada in the 1990's -- they are hesitant to perpetuate them after the hoopla of a first-ever event dies down.
"These works are generally not big audience hits," said David Gockley, the general director of the Houston Grand Opera since 1974. "Opera, in order to survive economically and otherwise, demands immediate success."
Mr. Gockley has been as prolific as anyone in presenting new work -- next spring, Carlisle Floyd's "Cold Sassy Tree," will be the 25th world premiere presented in Houston under his watch -- but he has never put on the second production of a work that had its premiere elsewhere.
"I'm a culprit," he said, though he added that he, and anyone in his position, would delight in putting on a second production that came with audience demand and the promise of success. But promise, of course, is in the eye of the beholder; and to composers this is an infuriating Catch-22.
"Success is not rewarded," said John Corigliano, whose one opera, "The Ghosts of Versailles," with the librettist William M. Hoffman, was commissioned by the Metropolitan Opera and had a highly celebrated premiere in 1991 and another well-received production at Lyric Opera in 1995. "That's the irony. A film that's a hit, or a musical or a symphony, it goes all over the world. But opera directors say no. How is a work going to get into the repertory if only those who commission it perform it? Those very commissioned works are doomed, therefore, and it seems to me the only way to break that stranglehold is that the composer has to die. I haven't achieved that yet."
Still, the return engagement of "Ghosts" at the Met, in 1995, without the imprimatur of a brand-new work, was a tougher sell, and, further hampered by its size -- it requires well over 100 singers and musicians -- it has gone unperformed in this country since then.
"We had 'Ghosts,' and then we had Philip Glass's 'The Voyage,' " said Joseph Volpe, the Met's general director. "In both cases we put on the revival. The first time, they both did extremely well; the second there was a falloff. The question is, 'Will audiences be taken by them?' There's only a certain amount of risk one can take."
Promoting a work unfamiliar to an audience, opera company directors point out, is not the same as promoting a particular production of that work. This is most evident in smaller markets, where audiences tend especially toward conservatism and companies have begun to curry interest in new work with locally based subjects.
In 1996, for example, the Utah Opera, to celebrate the state's centennial, put on "Dreamkeepers," a commissioned work by the composer David Carlson that drew on Ute Indian legends. The following year, the Florida Grand Opera in Miami presented "Balseros," about Cuban boat people, with music by Robert Ashley and a libretto by Maria Irene Fornes based on interviews with refugees.
A dramatic case in point is Ms. Larsen's most recent work, "Eric Hermannson's Soul," commissioned by Opera Omaha and presented last fall. It is based on the story of the same name, about a musician who trades in his art for a misguided religious devotion, by the Nebraska writer Willa Cather.
"Theater of place is now trickling down in the opera world for a couple of reasons,' said Jane Hill, the executive director of Opera Omaha. "We want our art form acknowledged as something of relevance, and this story was relevant to our audience." The company spent three years developing the piece in workshops around the state, including in Cather's hometown, Red Cloud, "where we played to an audience of 50 in the high school gymnasium," Ms. Hill said.
The results included three sold-out performances and considerable local acclaim. But there has been no subsequent interest from other companies.
" 'Eric' has a small orchestra, simple settings -- it's affordable by design," Ms. Hill said. The music, she said, is beautiful and accessible, and the story has themes -- the saving power of art, the tyranny of religious fundamentalism -- that hold contemporary relevance and universal appeal.
"The fact that it's local is not the impediment," Ms. Hill said. "The fact that it's new is the impediment."
On a grander scale, last year the San Francisco Opera's premiere of "A Streetcar Named Desire," with its troika of recognizable names -- the playwright Tennessee Williams, the composer Andre Previn and the soprano Renee Fleming -- focused a rare national spotlight on the opera world. The buzz surrounding that production, perhaps even more than the work itself (reviews were decidedly mixed), has propelled it to further life; it will be presented, after revisions, by the San Diego Opera.
"But we can't replicate that excitement in this business for anything other than the occasional moment of Luciano Pavarotti," said Alec C. Treuhaft, an agent for opera singers and the vice president of Columbia Artists Management. "TV couldn't be less interested, the Letterman people, those guys. And that's what is craved. Time was opera was larger than life by definition. Now everything is bigger, everything is amplified, everything is Imax. To thrill a general audience has become harder and harder."
On the part of major companies, this season brings several notable attempts to sustain world-premiere buzz, even beyond "A View From the Bridge" and "Gatsby." The New York City Opera will mount the second production of "Central Park," the triptych of one-acts with librettos by nationally known playwrights that was well received this summer at the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y.
"Cold Sassy Tree" is a rare co-production involving companies in five cities, a function of the reputation of the composer, Mr. Floyd, whose 1955 work, "Susannah," is perhaps the only American opera to successfully infiltrate the established repertory in decades. After the premiere of "Tree" in Houston, it will be presented in San Diego and then in three cities -- Austin, Tex.,; Baltimore and Charlotte, N.C. -- where commissioned works have no history.
Whether such efforts will sustain the momentum for these and other new works is uncertain. There is a prevailing sense in the opera world that change for the better, however glacial, is inevitable. In terms of audience development, composer development and the creation of a body of new work, said Marc Scorca, the executive director of Opera America, an advocacy group for professional companies, "we're seeing a shift of profound magnitude in the last 10 or 15 years; in a 400-year-old art form, that's lightning speed."
Meanwhile, Ms. Hill of Opera Omaha had another thought.
"Have we helped to create the problem through a proliferation of new work?" she said. "I'm as guilty as anyone. If I had the choice, would I do the second production of 'Cold Sassy Tree' or a new work? I'd probably go with the new work. At this point maybe we need to have opera birth control here, so people will adopt the kids who are already out there."
 
Birth of an Opera
This is the fifth article in a series on the making of "A View From the Bridge," based on the Arthur Miller play. Lyric Opera of Chicago will present the world premiere on Oct. 9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Libby Larsen (Steve Woit for The New York Times); Joseph Volpe (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); David Gockley (Michael Hart/Houston Grand Opera)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TITLE: VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE, A (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LYRIC OPERA OF CHICAGO

ORGANIZATION: LYRIC OPERA OF CHICAGO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; SURVEYS AND SERIES OPERA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); PUBLISHING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; BOLCOM, WILLIAM; MILLER, ARTHUR ARTHUR MILLER (74%); JOHN HARRIS HARBISON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



442 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 6; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
How Freedom Pays Off In Economic Well-Being

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:

DEVELOPMENT AS FREEDOM
By Amartya Sen
Illustrated. 366 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.50.
It is often remarked that democracies do not fight wars against each other. Less noted is this arresting observation, offered by the economist Amartya Sen: "No famine has ever taken place in the history of the world in a functioning democracy -- be it economically rich (as in contemporary Western Europe or North America) or relatively poor (as in post-independence India, or Botswana, or Zimbabwe)." 
 Never in the history of the world! That statement is not the only remarkable one in "Development as Freedom," Mr. Sen's thoughtful, expansive, sober but not easily accessible reflection on the relationship between economic well-being and political freedom.
Mr. Sen's work on the causes of famines and on the measurement of poverty, much of it done during his years as a professor of economics at Harvard, gained him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1998. Some of his earlier findings are repeated in this volume, but the overall argument -- that freedom is the principal goal and purpose of development -- gets full elaboration here.
In his new book Mr. Sen attempts to shift the focus of an old debate. The modern discussion about how economies grow and how people can benefit from that growth goes back at least as far as the 18th century, to Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations," a work much cited by Mr. Sen.
Economists have tended to look at such quantifiable things as income levels, gross national products and the availability of primary goods as the main measures of economic well-being. Mr. Sen looks instead at the practical effects of development, the impact it has on the way people actually live. Freedom in this sense becomes "the primary end" and "the principal means of development."
The crucial concept, which Mr. Sen develops in a demanding but rewarding chapter titled "Freedom and the Foundations of Justice," is what he calls "capabilities," specifically the capabilities that development should provide for people to live the way they want to. In this view, poverty is not simply a lack of money because a lack of money in one place can mean something very different elsewhere.
Mr. Sen uses the example of American blacks, who are much richer than Chinese citizens or the inhabitants of the southern Indian state of Kerala but have lower life expectancies than people in either places. In his result-oriented framework, poverty is not simply a low income level; it is what he calls "capability deprivation."
"An alternative to focusing on means of good living is to concentrate on the actual living that people manage to achieve (or going beyond that, on the freedom to achieve actual livings that one can have reason to value," Mr. Sen writes. "Capability is thus a kind of freedom: the substantive freedom to achieve alternative functioning combinations (or, less formally put, the freedom to achieve various life styles)."
Many of Mr. Sen's analytical concepts come together in his chapter on famines and other crises. Here, as elsewhere, he emphasizes capabilities. Famines, he argues, are not the result of food shortages per se. In fact, they usually occur where the food supply is adequate. The problem is that people have lost the "economic power and substantive freedom" to buy food.
The remedy, Mr. Sen writes, lies in "systematically recreating a minimum level of incomes and entitlements for those who are hit by economic changes." Moreover, he argues, "the minimum level of purchasing power needed to ward off starvation can be quite small."
Famine is also central to Mr. Sen's overall concept of freedom because in democracies, where information flows freely and elected officials are judged on the results of their rule, the worst food shortages have been alleviated, even in poor countries. Hence Mr. Sen's attention-getting statement about the nonoccurrence of famines in fully functioning democracies.
There is much else in this book, which is not always easy going for the lay reader (in fact, in places Mr. Sen's supposedly nontechnical writing will seem technical enough). Still, even when it is tough going, this is a book that rewards a reader's effort, not least for the calm, practical wisdom that Mr. Sen brings to difficult subjects.
One of his most eloquent and probing arguments consists of his refutation of the doctrine, fashionable among dictatorial regimes in Asia, that there is something called "Asian values" in which discipline and obedience bring better results than the protection of individual rights. Mr. Sen, who was born in India, argues that this is a misreading of Asian values and that freedom, not the lack of it, leads to economic well-being.
His analysis of poverty includes what he calls "missing women," which he has written about before. Mr. Sen argues that "the terrible phenomenon of excess mortality and artificially lower survival rates of women in many parts of the world" is an underestimated element of "capability deprivation." These mortality rates, he says, have caused more than 100 million women, half of them Chinese, to be "missing."
Mr. Sen also makes a fascinating comparison of the development experiences of China and India, a contrast that leads Mr. Sen to conclusions about the importance of social spending -- on health care and education especially -- that liberals favor and conservatives distrust.
"Those who see themselves as financial conservatives," he writes, "sometimes express skepticism about human development." He continues, striking a rare note of asperity: "What really should be threatened by financial conservatism is the use of public resources for purposes where the social benefits are very far from clear, such as the massive expenditures that now go into the military in one poor country after another. . . . Financial conservatism should be the nightmare of the militarist, not of the schoolteacher or the hospital nurse."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amartya Sen (Kris Snibbe, Harvard University/Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DEVELOPMENT AS FREEDOM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (57%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMINE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LITERATURE (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); 

PERSON: SEN, AMARTYA; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD ADAM SMITH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



443 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft On-Line Alliance With Ford Expected Today

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation's plans for the Internet have shifted uncertainly in recent years, but a series of announcements expected this week is intended to emphasize its new, narrower focus as a supplier of software for the World Wide Web and electronic commerce services.
Microsoft intends today to announce an alliance between MSN Carpoint, its on-line car-shopping service, and the Ford Motor Company, according to consultants who have been told of the agreement. 
 Further plans for the future of Microsoft's MSN Internet-access service and for placing its popular Office productivity software on the Web could come Thursday, when Microsoft executives are scheduled to meet with industry analysts and the news media in Seattle.
Under the agreement with Ford, the auto maker's car and dealer data bases will be much more closely integrated with the popular Carpoint Web site.
Franchise laws prevent auto makers from selling vehicles directly to retail buyers over the Internet, protecting dealers. But roughly 40 percent of car buyers do research on the Web before shopping, according to the research firm J. D. Power & Associates. Prospective buyers typically go first to the Web sites with information from several auto makers, like MSN Carpoint and Auto-by-Tel, before visiting the sites of individual manufacturers such as Ford or General Motors.
The intent of the Carpoint-Ford alliance is to give buyers more information for making a choice on line. For example, a potential buyer might be able to see which car models local dealers have in stock and ask that one be delivered to his or her door for a test drive. Or, consultants say, a would-be buyer may in the future be able to track the previous ownership, use and service records of a specific used car.
Microsoft's role is to provide much of the software that can deliver such levels of customization, and a large audience of potential customers through its Web site.
Ford's step seems a vote of confidence in Microsoft's technology and in its intentions. Indeed, last week Ford announced a new unit for forging closer on-line ties to buyers and said Microsoft would develop the basic software systems for its Web-based effort. Microsoft, consultants say, has also convinced Ford that its strategy is to become a supplier of the software for electronic commerce and not to compete head to head with the car companies. Because of Microsoft's market power and deep pockets, executives from industries including media, banking, travel and automobiles have expressed concern that the software maker could become more a rival than a partner in the fast-growing field of Internet commerce.
"Microsoft is building on one of its successful Internet sites to establish the deepest business-to-business relationship it has developed so far," said David Readerman, an analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners, an investment firm in San Francisco.
Microsoft's agreement with Ford is not exclusive, industry consultants say. The software maker hopes to reach similar arrangements with other car companies, as well as for its other Web sites like the Expedia travel site.
Neither Microsoft nor Ford would comment on the expected announcement.
To prospective partners, Microsoft is offering not only technology skills but also the lure of bringing the price-cutting tactics of the personal computer industry to the business of supplying Internet software and services, hoping to undercut E-commerce rivals like I.B.M., according to industry consultants.
The strategic direction for Microsoft's MSN service and for offering Web versions of some of its popular desktop software will be sketched out by company executives later this week. Just how much detail will be announced is not clear, according to industry consultants.
One plan under consideration at Microsoft, a consultant said, is to sharply cut the price of its MSN service to as low as $4.95 a month, from $19.95. The company, the consultant added, could also announce plans to soon offer its Office productivity software including data base, spreadsheet and other applications, as a Web-based service for which consumers pay $14.95 a month. It would be accessible through MSN, and include E-mail, calendar features, backup storage, software upgrades and other services.
The appeal for Microsoft, the consultant said, is that this service might well be attractive to smaller businesses and individuals from whom Microsoft does not get much recurring revenue through regular software upgrades. But the service through MSN would be less likely to be attractive to large corporations that have their own high-speed networks and could modify Microsoft's Office software for their own use.
Still, the issue of when to offer its Office software as a Web-based service is a difficult business decision for Microsoft. The Office personal computer software represents nearly half of Microsoft's business.
Yet the industry is heading toward Web-based applications, and the software business is evolving to become increasingly a service business. Sun Microsystems, a leading rival, announced earlier this month that it had purchased the German company Star Division G.m.b.H. and would soon offer its office productivity software as a Web service.
"Microsoft has to move to Web applications because it has no choice," said Ed Zander, the president of Sun. "But I can't imagine Microsoft would do anything major over the next year. It needs its desktop tax, selling Windows 2000 and Office 2000 as upgrades. Microsoft won't do anything to disrupt that." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); ABTL (NASDAQ) (68%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (68%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; FORD MOTOR CO MICROSOFT CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); AUTOBYTEL INC (68%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (50%); MICROSOFT'S OFFICE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; FORD MOTOR CO MICROSOFT'S OFFICE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AUTOMOBILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); WEB SITES (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (70%); FRANCHISING LAW (53%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



444 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Pope Visits Balkans and Beatifies a Slovene Hero

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MARIBOR, Slovenia, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Seeking a calmer course for the Balkans, John Paul II today beatified a 19th century Slovene bishop who tried to blend nationalism with religious tolerance.
"When I look upon our beloved countries in the Balkans, so sadly scarred in recent years by disputes and violence, by extreme nationalism, cruel ethnic cleansing and by wars between peoples and cultures," the Pope said in one of the few peaceful regions of the former Yugoslavia, "I would like to show everyone the testament of the blessed Slomsek." 
 The Pope noted that the man likely to be be the country's first saint, Anton Martin Slomsek, who became a national hero for promoting the Slovene language and culture under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, also preached "ecumenism" and "never succumbed to myopic nationalism."
Beatification is the last step before sainthood.
The Pope, who visited Slovenia in 1996, is making his second visit to the small, overwhelmingly Roman Catholic country since it seized its independence in a 10-day war with Belgrade in 1991. But the Pope's one-day visit is his first trip to one of the nations that formerly were included in Yugoslavia since the war in Kosovo last spring. Today, he urged the two million people of Slovenia to be "builders of hope in Europe."
A democracy all but free of the economic and ethnic divides bedeviling its neighbors, Slovenia was also hailed as a beacon of hope in the region by President Clinton when he visited Ljubljana, the capital, in June.
The Holy See began expressing its support much earlier, recognizing the independence of Slovenia and neighboring Croatia, which is also overwhelmingly Roman Catholic, in 1991, before either the European Community or the United States. Slovenia had the strongest economy in the Yugoslav federation under Communist rule that disintegrated after the death of Tito in 1980, and has prospered since, benefiting from its proximity to neighboring Austria and Italy. It is now seeking European Union and NATO membership.
But lately, Slovenia has also displayed signs of the kind of European-style secularism that is almost as worrisome to the Vatican. The Catholic Church here did not play the kind of pivotal role in the downfall of Communism that it did in Poland. About 80 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, but regular church attendance is not nearly as high. Even today, the crowds along his parade route were thin.
Seeking more leverage in society, the Slovene church is lobbying to change a 1996 law that forbids religious instruction in state schools and is seeking return of forest land confiscated under communism.
In giving Slovenia a strong indication about who is to be its first native-born saint, the Pope is apparently hoping to revive religious activism in a country often more preoccupied by economic reform.
And John Paul II used his presence to exert gentle pressure on the country's political leaders, many of whom were once officials in the Communist Government. "Considering the fundamental role of Christianity and the Catholic Church in the history and culture of Slovenia," the Pope said after visiting the cathedral where Bishop Slomsek, who died in 1862, is buried, "it is legitimate to wish that the process toward effective collaboration between church and state advance speedily, to favor the overcoming of present difficulties."
The Vatican and Slovenia have not yet signed a concordat, a treaty that stipulates the rights of the church in a sovereign country. The Pope met privately today with Slovenia's President, Milan Kucan, a former Communist who led the country's secession in 1991 and was re-elected in 1997. Government officials said they discussed the Balkans, but not internal affairs of Slovenia.
"There are still open questions between the church and the state, but the visit will help solve those issues," said Marjan Podobnik, 38, Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Slovene People's Party, a conservative faction within the coalition Government. He added, "resolving these questions will raise the prestige of Slovenia," but noted that "there are circles within the Government who are not so favorable to intensively solving these issues."
Stooped, but walking with determination, the 79-year-old Pope addressed an audience of about 100,000 at the Mass just outside Maribor, a town of 108,000 people near the Austrian border. The Pope addressed the solemn, awed crowd in Slovene, which he pronounced slowly, but almost fluently.
Some worshipers said they shared the church's disappointment with the Government's efforts to separate church and state. "My parents raised me with religious instruction, even under Communism," Milena Ciglar, 41, an unemployed secretary who brought her three daughters to the Mass. "I would like the same for my children under democracy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Pope, journeying to the Balkans yesterday to call for peace and to honor a bishop who preached patriotism and tolerance, said Mass in Maribor, Slovenia, where a strong wind blew away his zucchetto. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Slovenia highlighting Maribor: The Pope drew about 100,000 people to a Mass just outside Maribor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SLOVENIA (99%); SERBIA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CROATIA (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (56%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVENIA; MARIBOR (SLOVENIA); SLOVENIA (99%); SERBIA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CROATIA (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (56%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEATIFICATIONS AND CANONIZATIONS RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LOBBYING (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; POPE (JOHN PAUL II); SLOMSEK, ANTON MARTIN (BISHOP) BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



445 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: South African to Court U.S. Investors

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Hoping to win the hearts and minds of American financiers, South Africa's new President, Thabo Mbeki, will swing through New York this week to meet with Vice President Al Gore and prominent business leaders and to lobby for increased investment in his country's struggling economy.
On Monday, Mr. Mbeki will plead for debt relief for poor nations in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly. And throughout the week, he will talk with bankers, tourism executives and other corporate chiefs, ending his visit with a meeting with Mr. Gore and a speech to potential investors in the Roosevelt Hotel in midtown Manhattan. 
 The United States is already South Africa's largest trading partner, officials here say, with more than $10 billion invested in everything from telecommunications to prisons to soft drinks. But the flow of foreign dollars has not come swiftly enough.
The economy has lost 100,000 jobs since 1994. Unemployment stands at nearly 40 percent, and the country now has one of the highest crime rates in the world.
In his first 100 days as President, however, Mr. Mbeki has won praise for beginning to revamp the often-ineffective police force, taking a tough stance with labor unions and pushing for privatization of the Government's extensive assets.
During this visit -- his first to the United States since his election in June -- he hopes to reassure American investors that he will continue conservative fiscal policies lauded by the West and squarely confront what he calls the "impermissible level of crime and violence."
It will be Mr. Mbeki's first appearance on the world stage as a leader in his own right -- undiminished by the long shadow of his acclaimed mentor, Nelson Mandela.
South Africa's new President is, of course, no stranger to New York or to the other industrial capitals of the Western world. An urbane, pipe-smoking economist, Mr. Mbeki has debated and sipped whiskey with dozens of foreign leaders during his time in exile as the de-facto foreign minister of the African National Congress, and more recently as Deputy President under Mr. Mandela. But this visit is still viewed by some as a critical test.
"He has to convince the Americans that although he doesn't have the moral clout of Mr. Mandela, he has an efficiency and businesslike approach that is critical in today's world," said Sampie Terreblanche, a political economist at the University of Stellenbosch.
"When we became democratic in 1994, there were very high expectations of a large influx of foreign investment," Mr. Terreblanche said. "There was quite an influx, but not to the extent we had hoped for, given the widespread poverty and high levels of unemployment. The obstacle undoubtedly is the high level of violence and criminality. Mr. Mbeki has become very tough on that. He really wants to clamp down on violence and criminality."
In an effort to make his get-tough message known throughout the business world, Mr. Mbeki has assembled a team of six Cabinet members, including the Ministers of Finance, Labor, Public Enterprises and Trade, to address investors this week at the Roosevelt Hotel, where a conference cosponsored by corporations and the South African Government entitled "U.S.-South Africa 1999, Business and Finance Forum" will be held.
Mr. Mbeki is also expected to address the accomplishments of and challenges confronting nations throughout the African continent, urging the big powers to improve their relationships with developing countries and urging African nations to focus on solving problems caused by land mines, economic marginalization and AIDS. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); LOBBYING (72%); TRENDS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CONSERVATISM (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SOFT DRINKS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (51%); SMOKING (50%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L; MBEKI, THABO (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); THABO MBEKI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



446 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Seoul and Tokyo, United by Common Interests, Are Drawing Closer as Anger Fades

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Moving in ways that are still sometimes scarcely seen by their peoples, the Governments of South Korea and Japan are drawing dramatically closer, bringing a new spirit of respect and reconciliation to one of Asia's most bitter relationships.
"The relations between us have never been better, and we feel that we have laid the basis for even closer relations in the future," said Hyuk Lee, director of Japanese affairs at the South Korean Foreign Ministry. "At every level and in every area, the pace of our contacts has become quite brisk." 
 Officials in both countries say South Korea and Japan have been driven together by a variety of factors, like a common threat from North Korea, shared economic interests, and the approach of a jointly organized World Cup tournament.
"All this takes place against the backdrop of our shared concern about North Korea," said a senior Japanese diplomat who confirmed that sentiment. "Against that background, all of us have come to realize the importance of solidarity with the Republic of Korea and with the United States, as well."
The first major step in the reconciliation was taken in October, when South Korea's recently elected President, Kim Dae Jung, visited Japan and obtained what no other Korean leader had previously been able to get, a written apology for Japan's brutal 36-year colonization of his country.
In addition to the economic cooperation that both countries pledged to seek during President Kim's visit, the reconciliation has yielded dividends that few optimists would have predicted a year ago, substantial military cooperation for the first time and a rapid increase in cultural exchanges.
The traffic back and forth of officials across a body of water for which the two countries have never agreed on a name -- the Sea of Japan for one and the East Sea for the other -- has increased to an unusual level.
A busy series of visits at the prime-ministerial and presidential level is widely expected to culminate next year with a historic visit to South Korea by Emperor Akihito.
By far the most dramatic illustration of the rapprochement has been the holding of a joint naval drill last month at the midway point between the two countries, in seas 125 miles west of southern Japan.
Yet the understated handling of the naval exercise, which received low-key news coverage in both countries, indicates just how politically sensitive any embrace of Japan remains for Koreans and how little popular regard or attention Korea commonly elicits in the Japanese.
Both countries have faced repeated menacing incursions in their waters by North Korean vessels, some disguised fishing boats and some minisubmarines staffed by frogmen commandos. And both countries are braced for the possible launching of a new generation of ballistic missiles by North Korea.
But if they would seem to have every reason to cooperate closely on military matters, many Koreans still hold Japan in contempt for the harsh treatment meted out by the Japanese military in World War II.
Several days before the naval exercises, an editorial writer in The Korea Herald, a daily in Seoul, denounced Japan's defensive preparations for an attack by North Korea as steps taken to "make Japan a military power once again."
In its occupation, Japan sought to ban the use of the Korean language, forced Koreans to adopt Japanese names and coerced Korean women to work in army brothels.
Historians and officials in both countries say much work remains to be carried out before any genuine warmth will be felt between their peoples. Japan has not, for example, reversed its refusal to compensate Korean women who were sex slaves in World War II, and it has not agreed to compensate Korean veterans who fought for Japan in the war.
Nevertheless, Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi has made a number of small gestures that represent striking initiatives for a politician of his rank in Tokyo.
In the latest move, last month, Mr. Obuchi visited a stone tower in Hiroshima dedicated to Korean victims of the atomic bomb. It was the first such visit by a Japanese Prime Minister since the monument was built in 1970. Mr. Obuchi has also promised to seek Parliamentary support for legislation that would allow Korean residents to vote in local elections in Japan.
In the end, Koreans say, the growing exchanges between the two countries after decades of standoffishness may do more than any number of official gestures. Timidly at first, but now with accelerating speed, South Korea has begun to allow the importation of Japanese "cultural items" like comic books, movies and fashion magazines.
Many Koreans acknowledge that there is a keen interest in things Japanese and that greater access to them will gradually reduce the distance between the two peoples.
Conversely, however, popular Japanese views of Koreans remain steeped in disdainful stereotypes. Many Japanese refuse to accept what scientists say is incontrovertible -- that Japan was populated and civilized largely by people who came originally from Korea.
Many of the 600,000 people of recent Korean descent who live in Japan say they encounter stigmatization when hunting for jobs or houses and in dating or marriage.
Japanese prejudices against Koreans include strong cooking odors that they associate with spicy Korean food and the supposed garrulousness and lack of sophistication they see in their neighbors.
Indeed, discrimination faced by Koreans in Japan is one of the unresolved sore points in relations between the two countries.
"The Japanese Prime Minister has done his best to try to reassure Korean people by apologies and various gestures," an adviser to Mr. Kim said. "But there are still many problems, like the difficulties of Koreans living in Japan, that do not receive any attention from the Japanese Government."
The director of the Asiatic Research Center at the University of Korea, Choy Sang Yong, detects what he calls "very surprising" changes in Korean attitudes toward Japanese. Following on Mr. Kim's decision to open up to Japanese culture, Mr. Choy said, "the Korean Government has decided to use the word 'Tenno' for the Japanese Emperor." That is the Japanese title of respect for their imperial leader, one that recalls for older Koreans their wartime subjugation.
Attributing the shift, at least in part, to what he called Mr. Kim's drive to make South Korea more democratic, Mr. Choy expressed cautious hope that the Emperor's actual visit next year would be a success. Noting strident statements by right-wing politicians in Japan, however, he tempered his optimism by noting that many Koreans were still on guard for any sign of Japanese nationalism.
At a recent debate in Japan over legally adopting the country's flag and anthem as symbols of the nation, some people argued that Japan's neighbors still associated the symbols with wartime atrocities and would be offended. The answer of some ultraconservative politicians was that Japan had done enough apologizing and that Korea, in particular, owed its development to Japan.
Despite the reticence and animosity that has kept them apart, both Japanese and Koreans say being joint hosts of the World Cup soccer tournament in 2002 will bring the countries together as never before. Shuttle flights are expected to link the two capitals, and large numbers of fans will fly back and forth. To lend as much enthusiasm to the exchange as possible, the Korean Government will declare 2002 the Year of Japan, and the Japanese Government will pronounce it the Year of Korea.
"The people are more cautious toward Japan than the Government," said Kwan O Kie, a professor of Japanese affairs at Korea's University of Ulsan and a former newspaper editor. "But we look at them and we admire their way of doing things, and the long-term tendency will be for us to move closer together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Japan highlighting Tokyo: Tokyo has made a number of conciliatory gestures to Seoul. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SEA OF JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); SOCCER (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); MARINE VESSELS (67%); TRENDS (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); AKIHITO (EMPEROR) KIM DAE JUNG (68%); TSUGUNOMIYA 'EMPEROR AKIHITO' AKIHITO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



447 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Malaysian Malaise

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The dictator of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, long ago figured out how to intimidate the local and world press: appoint compliant judges to stifle free expression and financially ruin or jail political opponents.
Such misrule of law is not really an "Asian value"; Hitler and Stalin used obedient judges to give legal coloration to tyranny. But another Asian autocrat -- Malaysia's Mahathir Mohamad -- is following the Singaporean pattern in crushing dissent while wooing investment from U.S. business. 
 Last year he unleashed his lapdog prosecutors on his deputy, a budding political rival. His former ally is now in custody accused of "unnatural sex." Mahathir, emboldened by his ability to harass opposition and to jam BBC coverage, has also sent a message of intimidation to any in the world press who dare to report on excesses of his captive judges.
The reporter chosen to be the example is Murray Hiebert, a Canadian who is the Malaysia bureau chief of The Far Eastern Economic Review, a Dow Jones publication. He is the first journalist in any nation of the British Commonwealth to be jailed for his writing in a half-century.
The Asian Wall Street Journal gutsily reprinted "The Story That Got a Reporter Jailed." It seems the wife of one of Mahathir's judges sued a school in Malaysia for dropping her son from the debating team. When Mr. Hiebert noted how the silly case whizzed through the usual legal labyrinth, Judge Low Hop Bing ordered the reporter incarcerated for "scandalizing the court." Mahathir's appeals court fixed the jail term at six weeks.
What's been the world reaction? Canada mutters it will complain; President Clinton issued a little whimper of "concern"; and a few newspapers have dutifully registered their indignation. Nothing to give the Malaysian malaise.
On the contrary, Mahathir will soon be welcomed to the U.S. by the U.S business and foreign-policy establishment. Stimulated by the likes of Maurice Greenberg, whose amoral insurance interests in Asia shape the mind set of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Asia Society and the Nixon Center, many of our ever-engaging friends of "order" will kowtow.
Who will have the temerity to ask embarrassing questions of Mahathir? Will not one lonely elitist rise to protest his abuse of the judicial system or politely to deride -- as evidence of his popular weakness -- his harassment of anyone daring to write the truth?
Why is he jailing opponents who criticize judges protecting a crony from rape charges? What twisted mentality relies on accusations of "sexual misconduct" of political opponents to bolster his archaic charges of "sedition"? Why won't the U.N. back up its own Special Rapporteur's report on Mahathir's corruption with a resolution of condemnation?
Whenever some of us urge the use of economic muscle and heavy diplomatic suasion on the world's remaining despots, we are assailed as "preachy pundits" by this generation's ultra-pragmatist Cliveden set. But we soldier on, confident that in the end the free human spirit will prevail.
I do not suggest that activists organize a boycott of black peppercorns, a Malaysian contribution to the global economy too painful for gourmands to give up. But it might be sensible for investors to consider the shakiness of any regime that shakes in its jackboots at implied criticism from a mild-mannered Canadian journalist. And after witnessing what corruption did to Indonesia, apostles of accommodation might want to reconsider the wisdom of betting on future political losers in Asia. Absolute power corrupts honest business.
The jailing of Murray Hiebert is not just another blip on a faraway screen. The lack of meaningful world response has meaning. That is why, when unruly judges bow to dictators and subvert the rule of law, we in the unfettered press are duty bound to slam back with our weapons of exposure and derision.
Asserting freedom of expression everywhere is not imposing "our" values, as despots induce their Western lackeys to proclaim. Nor will it weaken "connective tissue," as weak diplomatists whine. Nor is it impractical, as business executives who prefer government-protected corruption to private competition aver.
Welcome to the U.S.A., Prime Minister Mahathir, where preachy pundits are free to hold tinpot tyrants in unconcealed contempt. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); WRITERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HIEBERT, MURRAY; MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



448 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Sending Babies to Be Raised in Child-Friendly China

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A Sept. 14 front-page article treated the plight of immigrant workers who send their children back to China as a human interest story, but deteriorating real wages and the lack of child care are economic trends that affect the majority of American workers. 
 Even though Americans are working more hours now than they did in the 1970's, it is no longer possible for most families to survive on a single income.
The immigrant mothers in your article struggle with jobs that do not pay a living wage for themselves, let alone for their children.
As all working mothers know, the American economy is not conducive to balancing the demands of work and children, notwithstanding the popular political discourse on family values.
 
SARAH ZAIDI
New York, Sept. 14, 1999
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE; CHINESE-AMERICANS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); FAMILY (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (88%); LIVING WAGE (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); 

PERSON: ZAIDI, SARAH SARAH ZAIDI NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



449 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: North Carolina Reeling in Hurricane's Aftermath

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ROCKY MOUNT, N.C., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Three days after Hurricane Floyd struck eastern North Carolina, almost two-thirds of the state remained virtually paralyzed today, with entire towns inundated, the death toll mounting, and 300 roads, including long stretches of Interstates 40 and 95, shut down.
State officials, calling the destruction an agricultural disaster, said the farming terrain has become the tomb of at least 110,000 hogs and more than 1 million chickens and turkeys. 
 Today, under pristine skies washed by 20 inches of rain, no one could fathom the actual human death toll, officially 23, because no one knows what lies under the stagnant brown swill of rivers like the Tar, the Neuse and the Cape Fear, which have overflowed their banks and flooded thousands of acres of lowland even before they have crested. And more rain was forecast for Monday and Tuesday.
A state of emergency was declared in 28 counties; 3,000 National Guardsmen were on duty, and state officials called for reinforcements from the Marines. Officials estimated that agricultural losses could exceed $1 billion.
Officials pointed at the devastation that will greet President Clinton on Monday, when he is expected to fly to Raleigh and tour the flooded region where the hurricane's aftermath has been the most severe.
Mr. Clinton has already declared the eastern two-thirds of the state a disaster area, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is providing guidance to homeowners who call its 800 number, will start setting up tents in cities like Rocky Mount, an old textile and tobacco city of 60,000 about 50 miles northeast of Raleigh, to take applications for loans and other forms of assistance.
Eight people in Rocky Mount alone were missing, Police Chief William Hogan reported, and one man apparently drowned there after trying to drive across a surging Stony Creek, which feeds the Tar River. A second body was found in the river today.
Mayor Frederick E. Turnage of Rocky Mount said six bodies had been brought to Nash General Hospital here, which serves Rocky Mount and the two counties the city straddles, Nash and Edgecombe. No one knew if the six were among those reported missing.
Among the 23 confirmed dead in the state were four members of a Pinetops family whose boat carrying 11 people capsized when they tried to escape their flooded home on Thursday. Two neighbors died with them, but the five others in the boat survived.
The storm claimed at least 49 lives from the Bahamas into New England. And beyond North Carolina, thousands of people were still without electricity and phone service in parts of Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York.
With some North Carolina rivers still to crest and the forecast of more rain, officials warned about extraordinary environmental damage. They cited threats to public health from water supplies contaminated by chemicals from flooded factories and by the carcasses of livestock.
The Tar River at Tarboro, about 20 miles east of here, was already estimated at 43 feet and still rising. The old record was 34 feet, set in 1919.
A tropical depression that formed this weekend in the Gulf of Mexico became Tropical Storm Harvey today when its winds reached 34 miles an hour.
The storm, with winds of 45 miles an hour, was mostly stationary late tonight about 330 miles southwest of St. Petersburg, Fla., but was expected to begin moving to the northeast.
Forecasters expected it would bring only a half-inch of rain or less to the Southeast, but officials in North Carolina said any additional rain would hurt.
"More rain on top of what they've already experienced just compounds the problems and misery they've already been through," a state emergency management spokesman, Tom Hegele, said.
North Carolina, and in particular its eastern, storm-torn third, is the nation's largest producer of turkeys, its second-largest producer of hogs and its third-largest producer of chickens. Officials fear an economic toll on farmers exceeding the $872 million of Hurricane Fran in 1996.
National Guard helicopters searched for stranded people and shuttled food to stricken towns where grocery shelves were bare. Drinkable water had to be rushed to several counties where waste-water treatment systems had failed.
"We have a great big mess around there," said Donald Reuter, a spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources. "We've got flooded waste-water treatment plants. We've got warehouses and industrial facilities that are leaking things. We have no idea what they are."
Jon Parks, a spokesman for the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management, said Interstate 40, running southeast from Raleigh, remained shut down from Newton Grove to the coastal city of Wilmington, more than 75 miles; Interstate 95, running north and south through Rocky Mount, was closed from Benson north into Virginia, almost 150 miles.
Mr. Parks said Sprint and US Cellular had reported about 100,000 customers without telephone service. Electrical power, which 1.5 million customers lost in the peak of the storm, had been returned to all but 133,000, he said. Other figures ran higher, to 147,000.
Storm victims have moved into more than 80 shelters.
Inland from the coast, the hurricane was a water storm more than a wind storm. In Rocky Mount, mobile homes, rendered to sticks in the highest winds, still stand. Road signs, bent in high winds, are nearly all intact.
But small roadside offices that seem to have survived have been flooded. Convenience stores in and near downtown, normally open on Sundays, were closed today, their shelves and floors swamped. Murky brown lakes have settled into acres of parking lots, fields and back yards.
Lawns are coated with wind-stripped leaves and small branches, but relatively few toppled trees. Those trees that fell lost their footing to the rampaging Tar.
A big blue sheet covers the roof of a Colonial house in the affluent neighborhood of West Haven. Shepard Yenney was talking to her father on the phone there when the storm hit. "I was saying, 'Gosh, Dad, we must be on the good side of this storm.' Then I heard something like a bomb go off."
Cabinets collapsed, cans covered the kitchen floor, and her boys, ages 4 and 8, screamed. The storm had dislodged the neighbor's huge white oak, which knocked out the Yenneys' chimney and their rafters.
Reaching from one end of the house to the other, Mrs. Yenney said, "It covered the whole house like a rainbow."
She said she was lucky.
"A friend of mine had to lower her three kids from their bedrooms to a boat," she said.
One man was standing on his roof firing his shotgun so someone would see him.
"Old folks had to swim out of their houses," Mrs. Yenney said. In a more affluent part of town, "you wouldn't believe the things floating by, like chairs used by George Washington."
The acres behind the Yenney house slope gently toward the bank of the Tar, hundreds of yards away. Built onto those acres is a cul-de-sac that today was a chest-deep lake with just the roofs of abandoned cars in front of the houses. The front door of one house was ajar, a sign of possible looting.
To prevent looting, city officials imposed 7 P.M.-to-7 A.M. curfews Friday and Saturday nights and were planning another for tonight. Mayor Turnage and the City Manager, Stephen Raper, estimated that hundreds of homes among Rocky Mount's 20,000 residences, including apartments, were ruined or heavily damaged.
"The water came up so quickly, so ferociously, it stranded people who never expect to see water," Mr. Turnage said.
Paul and Jolynn Melton, parents of a 6-year-old, an 11-year-old and an 11-month-old, had a view of the water, the gentle Tar, one lot removed from their small brick ranch house on Paul Road.
The walls and roof of their house stand, but the interior has been gutted. What there was of a lawn looks like a dry sea bottom now, the grass coated with mud, pebbles and debris.
The Meltons were loading a pickup truck today, salvaging two bicycles, boxes of clothes, the head and foot boards of a double bed, a rocking horse and a lawn mower.
"At 5:30 Thursday morning, there were 3 or 4 inches of water in the yard," said Mr. Melton, a warehouse supervisor for a store chain. "An hour later, it was on the porch. By lunchtime, it was halfway up the windows."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: LINGERING ILLS -- Days after Hurricane Floyd, North Carolina faces floods and pollution from dead animals and abandoned cars. From left, hogs clinging to a barn, a stretch of Interstate 40 and a rainbow-hued fuel leak. (Photographs by Jeffrey S. Otto/Wilmington Star-News)(pg. A1); North Carolina was a strange, watery world after Hurricane Floyd, with acres of farmland turned to mud and slime and 300 roads submerged. Still more rain was expected, even as the state struggled to recover. Clockwise from top right: Bill Tugwell, left, and John Wiens used a raft to reach the second-floor window of their apartment in Greenville (Mel Nathanson/The News and Observer); Jolynn Melton salvaged belongings from her home in Rocky Mount (Associated Press); Mark Coley, sharing the road with trucks, tugged his boat along a road in Brunswick County (Janet Blackmon Morgan/The Sun News), and a farmer pulled a hog from the Neuse River. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A13)
 
Map/Chart of North Carolina highlighting areas worst hit by the storm. (Sources: Federal Emergency Management Agency (counties); N.C. Dept. of Transportation (roads); National Weather Service (river levels))(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCKY MOUNT, NC, USA (95%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (95%); BAHAMAS (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNT, NC, USA (95%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FLOODS; HURRICANE FLOYD HURRICANES (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RIVERS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); POULTRY (76%); POWER FAILURES (73%); POLICE FORCES (57%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



450 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: Principals Quit New York City At Record Pace

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
New York City principals are leaving their posts in record numbers, propelled by a festering four-year contract battle with the city, higher salaries in the suburbs and a campaign by the Schools Chancellor to rid the system of what he considers failing leaders.
While other large cities across the country are also facing a shortage of principals, New York City is grappling with what experts say is the largest number of leaderless schools in its history. While some principals were dismissed in a drive to weed out poor performers, some of the system's most highly regarded leaders have left for other reasons. 
 The exodus comes at a time when the very top teachers' salaries will soon surpass those of most principals, when schoolchildren face the toughest promotional standards in decades and when the system has been thrown into confusion by flawed reading-test scores and the mistaken assignment of thousands of students to summer school.
"There are more vacancies for principals and a greater dearth of qualified candidates than I've seen in the last 40 years," said Seymour Fliegel, a senior fellow at the Center for Educational Innovation, a New York City research institute. "It's only going to get worse. If they care about the children, the city and the union will settle this right now."
When the school year began on Sept. 9, about 16 percent, or 195 of the city's 1,200 schools, opened without permanent principals, Board of Education officials said.
Neither the New York City Board of Education nor the principals' union, the Council of Supervisors and Administrators, could provide exact figures on how many principals have left the system for the suburbs. But union leaders, who have been negotiating for pay increases, estimated that about half the vacancies were created when principals were lured away for higher pay.
School districts in Westchester County, New Jersey and Long Island pay principals up to $30,000 more than the city, which has a minimum average salary of about $70,000. New York City principals have not received a raise since October 1995 and have been without a contract since February 1996, widening the gap between what the city and the suburbs pay. When a new salary scale for teachers goes into effect in December, the most experienced teachers working in the new Chancellor's district of 40 failing elementary and middle schools will make $80,000 -- more than many principals.
City leaders, however, paint the exodus in positive colors, saying it reflects the efforts to rid the system of incompetent principals. Dr. Crew and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani have been reluctant to sign an agreement with the principals' union, saying they believe the tenure system protects inept school leaders. Under the current system, which is written into state law, principals cannot be transferred without union permission and cannot be demoted or dismissed without what can become long disciplinary hearings.
The city has offered the principals' union a raise of 33 percent and three-year renewable contracts if principals agree to give up tenure and work a longer year. The union represents about 4,500 principals, assistant principals and other administrators.
But the city is in a bind. While trying to weed out underperforming principals by repealing the tenure law, it is losing principals like Arnold M. Goldstein, who left in June for an affluent school district in Long Island.
For five years, he was principal of one of the city's prized schools: Benjamin N. Cardozo High in Bayside, Queens, where almost all graduating seniors go on to four-year colleges. In 1998, Newsweek magazine listed Cardozo as one of the top 100 schools in the country.
Mr. Goldstein said that he was reluctant to leave, but that the decision was an economic one. As principal of Jericho High School in Jericho, N.Y., he makes about 50 percent more than the $80,000 he made in New York City after 25 years of service. Cardozo is more than six times larger than Jericho High, which has about 700 students.
"It was a difficult decision," said Mr. Goldstein. "It took me several weeks to decide to go for it. It was an opportunity to work in a small school, and the salary certainly was a factor. I had to take it."
Henry L. Grishman, the Superintendent of Jericho's public schools, was unabashed in his recruitment of Mr. Goldstein in March. "There is an awareness in the suburbs that principals are working in the city without a contract and are not well paid or highly appreciated," Mr. Grishman said. "That obviously makes it easy for me to recruit a top high school principal from New York City."
Saul Yanofsky, the Superintendent of the White Plains School District, said that New York City has some of the best trained public school educators in the country. This year, he hired two assistant principals from Community School District 2 in Manhattan as principals.
Last year, Melvin B. Katz left as principal of Middle School 141 in Riverdale, the Bronx, to lead Glenfield Middle School in Montclair, N.J. He now makes $92,500, about $12,000 more than he made in New York City after 33 years. "I left because of the money and low morale," Mr. Katz said. "There was less respect and increased responsibility, which I could have dealt with. I think you will find that true of almost all my colleagues who have left."
Not only are principals leaving New York City, but, in addition, few qualified teachers are willing to step up to the plate because it would mean a pay cut for a far more stressful job. Filling the 195 vacancies will not be easy. It involves committees comprising parents, teachers and union representatives, and can be a drawn-out process tainted by petty politics.
New York, whose school system was once the most prestigious in the country, is not alone. From Washington to Philadelphia to Los Angeles, school systems report a shortage of principals, said Vincent L. Ferrandino, the executive director of the 30,000-member National Association of Elementary School Principals, a nonprofit organization based in Alexandria, Va.
A number of factors have come together to make leading a school far less attractive than in the past. These include higher salaries for teachers, increased accountability, longer hours, a longer year and high-stakes testing, where one flagging performance by a school's students can cost a principal a job. While most cities used to provide principals with tenure, many, like Chicago, repealed the laws in the face of failing schools. Now, they offer renewable contracts based on performance.
The principal shortage is so pronounced that New York's crown jewel, Stuyvesant High School, which admits students based on a stiff entrance exam, received only about two dozen applications last year while searching for a new principal. That number was down about 75 percent from previous searches, including five years ago when Jinx Cozzi-Perullo was hired, Mr. Fliegel said. Ms. Cozzi-Perullo retired and was replaced this fall by Stanley Teitel.
"Superintendents all over the city are telling me they cannot get people who want to work as principals," Mr. Fliegel said. "Stuyvesant is the city's flagship school. Hundreds of people should want to work there."
Peter M. Comeau, a co-director of the Principals' Leadership Institute at Teachers College, Columbia University, surveyed about two dozen principals and about a half dozen superintendents last year when the fledgling group drew a weak response from people interested in the training.
"The lack of a contract was key," Mr. Comeau said. "They didn't talk so much about the money as much as they did about the loss of respect that seems to accompany the negotiations."
Over the years, principals became demonized as political hirelings. Some were handpicked by members of the city's 32 community school boards as favors to friends or relatives. But the 1996 school governance law removed the power to hire and fire principals from school boards and turned it over to district superintendents.
The aim was to stamp out patronage and corruption, and Dr. Crew was given broad new powers to remove underperforming principals, chiefly on charges of "persistent educational failure." When he failed to remove principals immediately, he was roundly criticized. Dr. Crew contended that the job protections of tenure forced him to place the bad principals elsewhere in the system.
But in June, Dr. Crew announced the dismissal of 58 principals at failing schools in the largest shake-up in the history of the school system. A majority had planned to retire anyway, and critics asserted that Dr. Crew included them in the tally -- which included even principals with distinguished careers -- to stanch criticism that he was not doing enough to remove failing principals.
Of the rest who were removed, some principals reverted to their previous job as assistant principal or teacher. About a dozen went to work elsewhere in the system, sometimes doing paperwork or supervising administrative projects at district offices, or at the Board of Education headquarters in downtown Brooklyn, said Jill Levy, executive director of the Council of Supervisors.
The reassignments underscore the city's need to do away with tenure, said Robert R. Kiley, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, one of the city's largest business groups.
"Principal tenure is a bizarre self-defeating system for the very people who shouldn't need it," said Mr. Kiley, who was instrumental in helping to pass the school governance law. "A person's job should rise and fall based on the performance of a school."
Some principals have come to agree. Last year, a dissident group of about 200 high school principals announced that it wanted to break away from the Council of Supervisors and Administrators and give up tenure protection. Members said they wanted to exchange tenure for higher pay and greater authority over hiring and firing.
The group never mobilized to secure collective bargaining power. But Jesse Lazarus, principal of Transit Tech High School in East New York, Brooklyn, and president-elect of the organization, said he still supports modifications to the tenure law if the new process is divorced from internal and city politics.
Anna Switzer, principal of P.S. 234, the Independence School in TriBeCa, one of the highest-performing schools on the citywide third- and fourth-grade tests last year, also supports modifications to the tenure law if there is job protection.
"What I hear a lot from the Mayor and the Chancellor is they need a mechanism to fire bad principals," said Ms. Switzer, who has been in the system for 25 years. "They also have to pay attention to the fact that they cannot replace principals in New York City. The work conditions are hard, salaries are low, the system is under-resourced and the classes are big. Very many of us could work elsewhere. Anywhere else we go would be easy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melvin B. Katz quit the New York City schools in 1998 to be a principal in Montclair, N.J. "I left because of the money and low morale," he said. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JERICHO HIGH SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRINCIPALS (SCHOOL); WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (79%); CITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); ACADEMIC TENURE (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (51%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; CREW, RUDY (CHANCELLOR) RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



451 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Web Sites Offer a New Lure for Writers: Wealth on Paper

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
Casting about for ways to raise its profile, Nerve.com, a little-known Web site billing its contents as "literary smut," last week sent out come-ons to 60 of the country's best-known writers, from Joyce Carol Oates to John Updike, offering them not just $2 a word for their contributions, but a package of stock options in the company.
Options, the speculative scrip given mythic status by the success of some Internet start-ups, are seeping into the literary and journalistic world, as Nerve.com has taken its cue from Web sites like Salon and TheStreet.com, both of which have used stock options to lure or reward freelance talent. 
 Never mind that Nerve.com is still romancing venture capitalists, and a long way away from an initial public offering or acquisition -- events that would eventually give the options whatever bankable value they may have. Rufus Griscom, 28, who is Nerve's editor in chief and chief executive, boasts that "next week we will have a Pulitzer Prize-winner" committed to write for the site.
Mr. Griscom's effort to find a name-brand literary asset to call his own -- and subvert the economics of the freelance writing business -- comes as name-brand writers are slowly turning up on the Web. David Talbot, the editor of Salon, the San Francisco-based Webzine, has Garrison Keillor and Camille Paglia as regular contributors. He said that he had offered stock options to about 10 of Salon's best-known freelance writers and illustrators -- but would not say which.
The options in Salon, which offered stock to the public in June for an initial price of $10.50, "allow recipients to purchase Salon shares for $1 or less in most cases," according to Todd Hagen, Salon's chief financial officer.
"I have used options for consultants and contractors for years," Mr. Hagen, who has handled the financial affairs of Web companies and software companies, said. "The concept of using options isn't unique. What is unique is that we as a media company are doing it with columnists and freelancers."
Scott Moore, publisher of Slate.com, an on-line magazine owned by the Microsoft Corporation, said he had not heard of the practice of offering stock options to freelancers. "There are plenty of fantasy stories of people hitting it rich off Internet stock option payments," Mr. Moore added. "But these offerings could be completely worthless, too." For Slate, he said, it would make little sense -- the magazine is owned by Microsoft, making the currency of options too valuable for this purpose.
Joyce Carol Oates, one of those who received the offer from Nerve, said: "I really don't write for the Web. I'm not a Web person." Gay Talese, another writer on Nerve's list, said: "I don't know why this would have any appeal. It has no appeal to me." He said he thought such a speculative deal "would have a one in 10,000 chance of working out."
John Updike said he had not yet received Nerve's offer, adding, "I probably would not have responded anyway." He added, "Young writers may be willing to gamble writing for stock options, but at my advanced age, I prefer to get paid in dreary old cash."
The approach of Nerve, Salon and TheStreet.com has its parallels in other Web ventures. In May, Atomfilms.com, a privately owned on-line film distribution company, which buys licensing rights for independent short films, began offering artists stock packages along with cash payment for licensing rights to their films, said Heather Redman, senior vice president of business affairs for Atomfilms.com.
"It shouldn't be the reason an artist chooses us," Ms. Redman said. "It's more like this is something to put in the back of your underwear drawer and pull out if we make it big one day. There really isn't any worth to it until we go public or we're acquired."
Last March, Alanis Morissette, the rock singer, received a stock package payment from MP3.com, an Internet company that posts recordings for free downloading by users. Ms. Morissette agreed to endorse MP3.com, allowing the site to post exclusive photographs from her current tour. In return, MP3.com agreed to help sponsor the singer's tour and to pay a total of 436,000 shares, roughly 2 percent of the company, to Ms. Morissette and Atlas/Third Rail, an entertainment company in which her manager, Scott Welch, is a partner.
"They said they couldn't pay us in the traditional sense," Mr. Welch said. "So we took a handshake and the stock. We didn't know what it would be worth, but it didn't hurt that the deal was in all the papers with Alanis's picture next to it."
MP3.com went public on July 21 at $20, and its value soared, closing the first day of trading above $63. Since then it has retreated, closing last Friday at $32.625. But that still makes the stake owned by Ms. Morissette and Mr. Welch worth a total of $14.2 million. Mr. Welch declined to discuss how soon the two are entitled to sell some or all of those shares.
Stock-for-words deals are not entirely unprecedented. In 1953, when Hugh Hefner was putting together the first issue of Playboy, he persuaded more than half the contributing illustrators and writers to accept stock in lieu of cash for their work.
In a 1998 Playboy magazine article, Mr. Hefner quoted one early Playboy writer, Burt Zollo, who accepted stock, as saying, "I sold it the first day it was traded and became a millionaire."
Jonathan Weber, the editor in chief of The Industry Standard, a magazine focusing on Internet commerce and culture, said he believed the phenomenon of options payments would not last. "I would be surprised if it were the beginning of a trend," he said. "It's very much driven by the current hype about options."
Those who are not there when the options are passed out, he added, may not be missing much. "Most people who get stock options do not get rich," he said.
Dave Kansas, editor of TheStreet.com -- in which the New York Times Company has a minority stake -- offered options to some key freelance contributors earlier this year, before The Street.com made its initial public offering in May. "It's a good way to reward important contributors and it's a good way to make sure they stick with you over the longer term," he said.
Mr. Hagen, the chief financial officer at Salon, said that most of the options offered its writers vest -- meaning that the freelancers gain legal title to the options -- in stages over a four-year period, beginning one year after the initial offering last June. the stock is currently trading at $6.
Michael Lewis, a contributor to several magazines, including The New York Times Magazine, has written about his decision to turn down The Street.com's offer of a 2.5 percent stake a few years ago in return for writing a weekly column.
The illogical speculation in Internet stocks has created its own logic, at least temporarily, Mr. Lewis said in an interview. "For this brief moment, perceptions are creating their own reality," he said.
Mr. Griscom is only too happy to peddle his perceptions. "Everyone knows people are making a huge amount of money off these Internet companies and they want to participate in that," he said. He added, "The only way we can make a more generous offer than a New Yorker or a Vanity Fair is to offer fat stock options packages."
Will it all last? Mr. Lewis said he doubted it. "There will be astonishing aspects of capitalism in the near future," he said. "But this particular astonishing aspect won't last. I don't think it's sustainable for journalists to become millionaires, unless they cease to be journalists. I don't think they are that valuable economically. Culturally they're valuable, but not economically."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about Internet companies' use of stock options to attract freelance writers misstated the age of Rufus Griscom, editor in chief and chief executive of Nerve.com, one of those using the incentive. He is 31, not 28. The article also misstated a description his site has used about itself in the past. The phrase is "literate smut," not literary smut.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Garrison Keillor (Associated Press); and Camille Paglia write for Salon, but Joyce Carol Oates, top right, has turned down Nerve. (Chris Lee for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (80%); TST (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); NERVE (MUSIC GROUP); THESTREET.COM MICROSOFT CORP (80%); THESTREET INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); NERVE (MUSIC GROUP); THESTREET.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; WRITING AND WRITERS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; MAGAZINES STOCK OPTIONS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); WEB SITES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); STARTUPS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (61%); 

PERSON: UPDIKE, JOHN; OATES, JOYCE CAROL; LEWIS, MICHAEL; KILGANNON, COREY JOHN HOYER UPDIKE (73%); CAMILLE PAGLIA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999



452 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Don't Give Up On Russia

BYLINE: By Robert E. Rubin; Robert E. Rubin was the 70th Secretary of the Treasury. Michael Froman, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Deputy Assistant Treasury Secretary, contributed to this article.

 BODY:
This morning, the House Banking Committee is scheduled to open hearings on the Clinton Administration's Russia policy. This debate can be useful, indeed helpful, provided it takes into account three important factors.
First, we must realize that the United States has a critical interest in Russia's stability and economic success and in its transition over time to a market democracy. Second, we must recognize the obstacles Russia faces in switching to a market economy. And third, we must realistically assess the choices the West faces, given the conditions in Russia and our own interests. 
 American self-interest in a democratic, market-oriented Russia has been at the core of the Administration's approach to supporting economic reform in Russia over the last six years. Throughout this period, we were fully aware that Russia's transition would take a long time to complete, with many ups and downs along the way. We were also aware that all of our decisions involved probabilistic judgments -- weighing many possible outcomes and the consequences of each, based on the information available at the time. There were no guarantees.
While the Soviet Union's spectacular collapse in 1991 may have led some to expect too much, too soon, the Clinton Administration and the international community realized that Russia's path from bankrupt Communism to a vibrant market democracy would have to overcome enormous obstacles. Unlike many countries in Central Europe, Russia had no memory of a functioning market economy. Contract law and property rights would have to be created from scratch. Institutions to develop and enforce market regulations would have to be established. Judges to interpret the laws and regulations would have to be trained. And the rule of law would have to overcome the twin dangers of criminality and corruption, which were recognized from the start as critical impediments to a successful transition.
The rule of law is not established overnight. Nor is a market democracy. These are long-term objectives. In the short term, however, the United States had an enormous stake in providing the support necessary to create a stable environment in Russia, in promoting reform and in helping to ease the impact of this extremely difficult transition for the Russian people. Over time, reform itself is an important antidote to crime and corruption.
Given the challenges Russia faced, it would have been unrealistic to assume that Russia could shake 70 years of Communist baggage and become a full-fledged market democracy in less than a decade. Indeed, a successful transition is likely to take a long time to accomplish, and the United States, the other industrialized nations and the international financial institutions face no easy choices.
Obviously, great challenges lie ahead, but there have been important accomplishments. After a painful period of adjustment, basic elements of a market economy are in place. The United States and Russia have cooperated on foreign policy matters, including in the Balkans. And there have been significant achievements in other areas like arms control.
Clearly, Russia falls far short of the sort of market democracy we would like to see. But it might be useful to point out some of the other things Russia might have become, but did not. It's not a country whose policies are marked by virulent anti-Western nationalism. It's not a country that sank back into the sort of authoritarian state planning mode that characterized Communist regimes before 1991. And it's not a country that fell into total chaos or anarchy.
All of the things we've tried to accomplish could still come to pass. So could all the things we've tried to avoid. It is vitally in our interests that we do everything in our power to increase the probability of a constructive result.
In this context, engagement is a much preferred course of action to abandoning or isolating Russia. Engagement does not mean suspending critical judgment; quite the contrary. We need to be realistic about what can actually be accomplished, but we must also be prepared to deny Russia support, as we have in the past, if it fails to meet our conditions. Conditionality has to be an important part of any program.
In that regard, serious allegations have recently been raised about criminality, corruption and the possible misuse of International Monetary Fund money. Clearly, the appropriate authorities need to determine what the facts are and then respond appropriately. This is critical not only for Russia's economic future, but for our own efforts to combat international criminal activity.
This would be a complicated matter in any situation. But given our stake in Russia's success, we must approach it in a level-headed way. Only then will appropriate judgments be made about what course of action best serves the interests of the American people.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Alexander Gelman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ETHICS (78%); TRENDS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); CORRUPTION (67%); CONTRACTS LAW (64%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



453 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Dollar Slips,Cutting Prices Of Treasuries

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell yesterday as traders grew pessimistic when the dollar reversed course against the Japanese yen, declining after several days of gains.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 10/32 of a point to 100 26/32, sending its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, up to 6.07 percent from 6.04 percent on Friday. 
 Yesterday's session was marked by quiet trading in which bond prices stayed within a tight range. Dealers attributed the slow day to the absence of many traders who were observing the Yom Kippur holiday and to a lack of new data on the economy.
Bond prices, as they had last week, followed fluctuations in the dollar against the Japanese yen. A week ago, the dollar fell to its lowest level in three and a half years against the Japanese currency. A rebound by the dollar late last week helped push bond prices higher. But yesterday, after gaining more ground early in the day, the dollar slipped back.
A falling dollar not only discourages foreign investors, but also makes imports more expensive in the United States, creating a degree of inflation pressure. Traders worry that the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee, which has already raised rates twice this year, may see a need for a third rate increase at its meeting on Oct. 5.
In the broader market, prices of short-term Treasury securities were up by 1/16 to 1/8, and intermediate maturities were up 7/32 to 5/16, according to Bridge Telerate, a financial information service.
Yields on three-month Treasury bills were 4.65 percent as the discount rose 0.01 percentage point from Friday. to 4.53 percent. Six-month yields were 5.06 percent, as the discount rose 0.01 percentage point, to 4.86 percent. One-year yields were 5.24 percent, as the discount rose 0.03 point, to 4.97.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, rose to 5.19 percent from 5.06 percent late Friday.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds fell 9/32 , to 11229/32 . The average yield to maturity rose to 5.86 percent from 5.85 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.822	97.528	High Rate	4.66%	4.89%	Coupon Yield	4.79%	5.09%	Low Rate	4.61%	4.85%	Median Rate	4.65%	4.89%	Total applied for	$25,208,070	$29,096,404	Accepted	$9,838,570	$11,437,204	Noncompetitive	$1,248,484	$1,213,442	

Both issues are dated Sept. 23, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 23, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on March 23, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); BOND ISSUES (79%); INFLATION (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); YOM KIPPUR (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



454 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Report by U.N. Agency Asks Trade Opening to 3d World

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Industrial nations must relax trade barriers and open their markets to the developing world, lest these third world countries be forced to rely on unpredictable foreign capital for economic growth, the United Nations trade and development agency said here today.
A study of some 40 developing countries showed increased trade deficits and declining economic growth, the agency, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, said in its annual report. It urged that the concerns of poorer countries be the centerpiece of forthcoming global trade negotiations, contending that market access, not foreign capital, was the key to growth. 
 Its concerns were seconded by the World Bank, which backed a far-reaching trade round today -- including agriculture and construction, areas of prime interest to emerging economies -- to start at the World Trade Organization's ministerial meeting in Seattle in November.
Joseph Stiglitz, chief economist for the World Bank, speaking to reporters at a meeting on developing countries that was organized along with the W.T.O., said that the "liberalization of agriculture should be a priority." Cutting back farm subsidies, a sensitive political issue, particularly in Europe, is on the agenda of the next round of trade negotiations, which is expected to last three years.
World Bank research indicated that a 40 percent reduction in global agricultural export subsidies would be as effective as an equal percentage reduction in manufacturing tariffs.
In the United Nations agency's annual review, Rubens Ricupero, head of the agency, said it had found that economic growth in the 1990's was an average of two percentage points below what it was two decades ago. At the same time, trade deficits were, on average, three points above their 1970's mark.
"Here we have the worst of two worlds," said Mr. Ricupero, a former Brazilian Finance Minister. "We have had a deterioration in trade balances, and a very sharp deterioration in trade deficits, whereas economic growth has been going downward."
 The "disturbing trend," he maintained, stems in large part from the sluggish growth in industrial economies, especially Japan and European Union nations. That, combined with other factors like trade barriers, has made it hard for developing countries to increase their exports enough to cover balance-of-payment deficits, which have been created by a surge of imports.
Predicted gains by third world countries from trade liberalization have not materialized in many cases, the 146-page report said. Instead, there has been increased poverty and unemployment.
Mr. Ricupero urged the advanced economies to "work harder to convince a sometimes skeptical public that there are direct benefits, in terms of more jobs and rising incomes, from expanding trade" with developing countries.
Opening market access to them means lowering tariffs and dismantling agricultural subsidies, which total some $350 billion -- twice developing nations' agricultural exports from 1996 to 1998, according to the report. It cited European Union producers of dairy products, who despite having the world's highest costs, have retained a 50 percent share of the world market.
Among other impediments to trade by third world countries, the report cited the use of health and safety standards to control imports, antidumping procedures and increasing export restraints. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH RUBENS RICUPERO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



455 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Battle Waged In the Senate Over Royalties On Oil Firms

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Oil companies drilling on Federal land have been accused of habitually underpaying royalties they owe the Government. Challenged in court, they have settled lawsuits, agreeing to pay $5 billion.
The Interior Department wants to rectify the situation by making the companies pay royalties based on the market price of the oil, instead of on a lower price set by the oil companies themselves. 
 A simple issue? Not in the United States Senate. Instead, it has become a textbook example of how Washington works. The battle over royalties shows how a senator can use legislation to right a wrong, in the view of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican who is blocking the Interior regulations. Or it shows how Congress does favors for special interests, in the view of Senator Hutchison's opponents.
The issue could come to a vote this week, and it appears as if the Senate might side with the oil companies.
Senator Hutchison, who has received $1.2 million in contributions from oil companies in the last five years, has been winning the battle to block the pricing regulations since the Interior Department imposed them in 1995. The department estimates that oil companies are saving about $5 million a month, money that would otherwise be flowing to education, environmental programs and other projects.
Senator Hutchison calls the regulations a breach of contract and an unfair tax increase. She says she represents "the overwhelming majority of the Senate who want to do the right thing, who want fair taxation of our oil and gas industry."
For four years, she has placed amendments and riders into annual spending bills to keep the Interior Department regulations from taking effect. To do otherwise, she argues, would be "to let unelected bureaucrats make decisions that will affect our economy."
Senator Hutchison's chief antagonist has been Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who has condemned the underpaying of royalties as a scheme intended to "rob this Treasury of millions and millions of dollars."
"We shouldn't have a double standard just because an oil company is powerful, just because an oil company can give millions of dollars in contributions," Senator Boxer said.
The Senate has never actually voted on Senator Hutchison's measure. It has been inserted into must-pass spending bills that provide a perfect vehicle for controversial measures that might attract public notice if they were openly debated.
This year, however, the Senate decided it would stop attaching such riders to appropriations bills. Now the Hutchison amendment has turned into a running battle on the Senate floor.
The Interior Department first proposed the regulations in December 1995, nearly 10 years after the State of California first began to suspect that energy companies were underpaying the royalties they owed on oil pumped from Federal and state land. The royalty is 12.5 percent for onshore drilling and 16.67 percent for offshore production.
For the industry's giants, the royalties are a small fraction of earnings. For the Exxon Corporation, they represent about one-eighth of 1 percent of company revenues. According to Interior Department figures, the new regulations would cost Exxon $8 million, an additional one-hundredth of a percent of revenues.
The money goes to the Treasury, which sends it to environmental and historic-preservation projects, and to 24 states, many of which use the money on education.
But instead of basing their royalties on the actual market price of oil, the energy companies have been using a price they set that has run as much as $4 a barrel less than the market price.
According to the sworn testimony of a retired Atlantic Richfield executive in a California lawsuit in July, the policy of his company and others was to pay royalties based on a price "at least four or five dollars below what we accepted as the fair market value." The retired executive, Harry Anderson, said his company's senior executives had decided "they would take the money, accrue for the day of judgment, and that's what we did."
The testimony was first reported by Platt's Oilgram News, a trade publication.
This practice allowed 18 oil companies, including Shell, Exxon, Chevron, Texaco and Mobil Oil, to avoid paying royalties of about $66 million a year, according to Interior Department figures published in the Congressional Record.
Sued by state governments, and now under investigation by the Justice Department, most of the major oil companies have signed settlements totaling about $5 billion with seven states.
But Ms. Hutchison says forcing the companies to pay royalties based of the true market price of oil amounts to an unfair tax increase.
"They are breaking a contract and saying: 'We are going to raise your taxes,' " she argued on the Senate floor this week.
"If we allow that to happen, who will be next?" the Senator asked. "Who is the next person who is going to have a contract and have the price increased in the middle of the contract? Contract rights are part of the basis of the rule of law in this country, and we seem to blithely going over it."
If the Hutchison amendment comes to a vote -- and it might this week -- it appears likely to pass, with support from almost all the Senate's 55 Republicans and a few oil-state Democrats.
If the Senate lets the regulations take effect, says Senator Frank Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who supports the amendment, the message will be clear: "We will be saying, 'Go ahead. Raise royalties and taxes. We, the U.S. Senate, yield our power.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, left (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times), is seeking to protect companies that drill on Federal land. Senator Barbara Boxer says they are underpaying. (Ed Carreon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XON (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT EXXON CORP (59%); INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ROYALTIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (91%); ROYALTIES (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; HUTCHISON, KAY BAILEY (SEN); BOXER, BARBARA (SEN) KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (90%); BARBARA BOXER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



456 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Issues Nudge Nasdaq Close to Its High

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The big technology companies propelled the Nasdaq composite index within a point of a new closing record yesterday, capping a quiet session that left most stock indicators little changed.
The Nasdaq gained 16.53 points, or nearly six-tenths of a percent, to close at 2,886.15, just under its closing high of 2,887.06 set on Sept. 10. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 20.27, or about two-tenths of a percent, at 10,823.90, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 0.11 point, or a hundredth of a percent, to 1,335.53.
But declining issues outnumbered those advancing three to two on the New York Stock Exchange, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 1.25, to 433.20.
An array of technology companies pulled the Nasdaq higher. Sun Microsystems rose 5 7/8, to 94 9/16, after declaring a 2-for-1 split late on Friday. Aerial Communications, a maker of digital cellular phones, soared 6 5/8, to 26 5/8, after Voicestream Wireless agreed to acquire it for $3 billion in stock and cash.
Apple Computer rose 2 1/8, to 79 1/16, and Microsoft picked up 1 1/8, to 97 9/16.
After the close of the market, however, Apple announced that shipments, revenue and earnings for the current quarter would fall short because of smaller-than-expected deliveries of microprocessors from Motorola. Apple was lower in after-hours trading.
 The renewed strength over all in technology shares, however, provided a rare spark in one of the quietest sessions of the year, with many traders observing Yom Kippur yesterday.
Big Board volume was 568 million shares, compared with 842.63 million on Friday.
Analysts said that the dollar's fluctuations against the Japanese yen had kept the market somewhat off balance -- the dollar was up in the morning but closed down -- and that investors also appeared unwilling to take significant new positions in advance of the Federal Reserve's meeting on Oct. 5.
Stocks have been hurt in recent weeks by concerns that the Fed's Open Market Committee will raise interest rates for the third time this year. The committee raised rates twice this summer to avert inflation. With no significant inflationary data scheduled for release before the central bank meeting, some analysts say that stocks will remain in a narrow range.
"We expect the Dow industrial average will remain locked within a 10,500-to-11,500 range," said John H. Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest in Hartford. "Thereafter, we expect a very solid rally based on very positive earnings reports and growing investor confidence that future Fed rate hikes will likely be limited."
Philip S. Dow, director of equity strategy at Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis, said earnings reports, or advance notices of earnings surprises, would most likely be the inspiration for the market's next big move.
"Until then, it's hard to come up with any convincing arguments that the market should go way up or way down," he said.
Dole Food offered the latest evidence of investors' harshness toward companies that miss estimates. It fell 2 3/4, to 21 1/4, after the company said it expected to break even or record a slight loss for the third quarter, in contrast to analysts' predictions of earnings of 13 cents a share.
The strength in technology shares extended to the Dow yesterday. I.B.M. rose 4 3/4, to 130 1/8, and Hewlett-Packard was up 3 7/8, to 104 1/16, as both companies rebounded from losses on Friday.
General Electric rose 2, to 122, after a Merrill Lynch analyst, Jeanne Terrile, reinstated the stock as a Merrill Focus One issue, praising the company's Internet strategy.
Furon, a polymer manufacturer, which Norton has agreed to acquire for $25.50 a share, or about $472 million, was up 8 13/16, at 25 1/8. Norton, a unit of the French company Saint-Gobain, makes abrasives, ceramics, plastics and chemical-process products.
ZDNet, a unit of Ziff Davis, rose 3 5/16, to 21 7/16, on speculation that it would be acquired.
Priceline.com, rose 5 15/16, to 64 3/16. Warburg Dillon Read raised its rating on the stock to a strong buy from a buy, saying a recent selloff was too severe.
Another winner in the technology sector was Vitria Technology, which rose 2 3/8, to 50 5/8. Vitria, which had its initial public offering on Friday, makes software that allows companies to manage transactions and place orders over the Internet in real time.
Overseas, the Nikkei stock average in Japan rose 1.3 percent. The DAX index in Germany rose 0.9 percent, the FT-SE 100 in Britain was up 0.3 percent, and the CAC-40 in France closed 0.8 percent higher.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (91%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); YOM KIPPUR (50%); 

PERSON: PHILIP S DOW (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



457 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
In Japan These Days, Few Speak Kindly of Central Bank

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan is under siege. At no time since the central bank was granted independence from Government control last year as part of a sweeping overhaul of the nation's financial system has it come under so much pressure.
International experts ranging from the United States Treasury Department to prominent private economists and investors want the central bank to loosen what the bank already considers a loose monetary policy. A looser monetary policy, they say, will help give the Japanese economy the jolt needed to loft it, finally, out of a decadelong slump. 
 Adding to the pressure is the unexpected strength of the yen, which hit a three-year high against the dollar last week, setting off concerns that it would derail the start of any economic renaissance.
The bank, however, says it can do little more to spur the economy -- having dropped interest rates practically to zero and injected large sums into the money markets, only to have produced little in the way of increased demand for money to spend and invest.
"Large amounts of excess reserves currently exist in the banking system," Kazuo Ueda, a policy board member, said in a recent speech. "Not a single bank has said that a further increase in reserves would increase their lending."
The wrangling has evoked a sense of the past among economists here. "It's very, very reminiscent of the bad old days," said Brian Rose, an economist at Warburg Dillon Read, "when the Bank of Japan had no independence and the press would announce its policy changes ahead of its own announcements, the Ministry of Finance ordered it around, and politicians felt free to weigh in as well."
The bank has resisted the appeals to do more, but on Tuesday, the policy board will hold its regular meeting, where monetary policy and the strength of the yen will undoubtedly be discussed.
Currency traders, the country's leading financial daily newspaper and others were betting today that the bank would capitulate and announce plans to increase the money supply that would work in tandem with some sort of foreign intervention to suppress the yen's rise.
Expectations of an announcement weakened the yen in Tokyo trading and contributed to a surge in the Tokyo stock market, where the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues rose 1.34 percent today.
Japanese Government officials also think that the bank will move on Tuesday to ease monetary policy -- but in such a subtle way that the markets may miss it at the outset, and foreign governments may be disappointed.
The officials are betting that while the bank would not reverse any of its policies, it would begin increasing the money supply, probably by adding to the one trillion yen pile of money -- $8.9 billion at current exchange rates -- it leaves in the market every day.
Such an increase would achieve the same effect as the abandonment of Japan's "sterilized" currency interventions to influence the yen's exchange rate. In such interventions, the central bank offsets the surge in the money supply created by selling yen with other actions in the money market.
The United States and others who are concerned about the yen's strength have said such interventions have only limited effect. But the Bank of Japan does not want to be seen as caving in to the criticism.
The pressure on the central bank over yen intervention underscores the steadily rising tension between the central bank and its former masters, the Ministry of Finance and the ruling political party. That tension has been simmering since April 1998, when the bank was made independent.
There also is a continuing confrontation over Government bond purchases, with the Finance Ministry and prominent politicians urging the central bank to underwrite Government bonds and the bank refusing to take on that role.
The bank contends that that would give the Government unfettered ability to spend money at a time when the country's debt has climbed precariously. Central bank officials are still resentful that pressure to purchase Government bonds was perceived as the impetus behind its decision in February to reduce interest rates to one-quarter of a percent.
In its effort to defend its independence thereafter, the bank has further compromised the perception that it makes monetary policy solely on its own. "The Bank of Japan seems always to be driven into these untenable situations," a senior official said in frustration.
Last November, when it made moves to aid corporations with financing, it was seen as responding to political pressure at home, and in February, when it lowered interest rates, the bank was accused of bowing to the dictates of Robert E. Rubin, then the American Secretary of the Treasury, who had urged the bank to ease monetary policy.
"I'm sympathetic to their rationale for doing what they do, but markets and the political environment change rapidly and sometimes it's better to act pre-emptively," said a senior Finance Ministry official, who insisted that the ministry had not tried to strong-arm the central bank. "Unfortunately, they have tended to wait until the last minute before taking action, and thus appear as if they're being forced into it by those who have already advocated it."
At the moment, the bank evidently feels as if it has been backed into a corner. No one could have made that clearer than its Governor, Masaru Hayami, during comments after a meeting with Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa last Thursday.
Mr. Miyazawa's remarks were those of the seasoned politician he is. He said he had not discussed any specific issues regarding monetary policy with Mr. Hayami. "We had an important exchange of opinion," he said.
But he apparently angered Mr. Hayami by telling reporters that he had arranged the meeting, thus suggesting that once again, the Finance Ministry was trying to dictate to the bank.
Mr. Hayami subsequently declared that the bank had no intention of changing its policy on "sterilized intervention."
"The zero interest rate policy is already more than sufficient as a monetary easing step," he said, forgoing the even more nuanced language with which most Japanese officials speak.
But perhaps even more telling was the choice of the site for the meeting. Apparently, neither man wanted to be seen on his opposite's turf, and so they met in a hotel room in central Tokyo. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN; TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF JAPAN (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN; TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TRENDS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



458 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A City Takes a Stand Against Hate

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS 

DATELINE: EAST PEORIA, Ill.

 BODY:
For years, the hard-working residents of this mostly white town on the eastern bank of the Illinois River did not take seriously the white supremacist views of Matthew F. Hale, 27, the son of a retired local policeman.
They recall trying to ignore his leaflets and appearances on public-access television. When he set up the headquarters of the World Church of the Creator in his parents' home, some thought it was a joke. 
 But after the Fourth of July weekend, when Benjamin Smith, a former World Church member, went on a two-state rampage against Jews, blacks and Asian-Americans, killing two and wounding nine before shooting himself, the laughter stopped.
"We were sickened," said Dennis Triggs, 54, the City Attorney. "We had the sense that benign neglect must come to an end."
Mr. Triggs called Morris Dees, co-founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit civil rights organization, to ask what East Peoria could do.
Mr. Dees sent Mr. Triggs and Mayor Charles Dobbelaire, 59, a copy of the center's publication "Ten Ways to Fight Hate," and advised city leaders to do two things: Speak out immediately and form a broad-based coalition on race issues.
Mr. Dees also put leaders in touch with the Rev. David Ostendorf, a United Church of Christ minister in Chicago who leads the Center for a New Community, a group dedicated to fighting white supremacist ideas and organizations in the Midwest.
Mr. Ostendorf, who has said that "the only way this movement is going to be stopped is if communities stand up and say no and organize to oppose it," added a stop in East Peoria to a civil rights tour that retraced Mr. Smith's deadly trip through Illinois and Indiana.
On July 22, with members of Mr. Ostendorf's caravan and 200 local residents present, the Mayor announced that East Peoria, which has only a few dozen nonwhites in its population of 23,400, would set up a Human Relations Commission "to guide us in combating hate and teaching tolerance."
"We will not surrender the minds of our young to Matt Hale," Mr. Dobbelaire continued.
"I know that still today there are those who believe we should not attract attention to the hatemongers," he said. "They believe that if we quietly go about our everyday life, those who preach hate will fade slowly into the night. I ask you this: If we do not speak out, loud and clear, when the hate messages spewing forth from this so-called church lead to death, then when do we speak out?"
Mr. Dobbelaire's speech was followed by a prayer vigil in front of the Hale family home. On the other side of the ordinary, tree-lined street, a neighbor had posted a sign saying "Hate Has No Home Here."
The Mayor, who grew up in East Peoria and said racial issues rarely crossed his mind, appointed a new Human Relations Commission on Aug. 17.
"We're in this for the long haul," he said.
East Peoria has survived severe blows before, the worst being the closing of a Caterpillar tractor plant that had been its economic cornerstone. But it has enjoyed a comeback in recent years, with a new riverboat casino and jobs in entertainment, tourism and service industries.
The idea that their town might be seen as some kind of hate capital horrified the Mayor and the human relations commissioners.
"This is really causing a bad image for our tri-county area, not just East Peoria," said David Mingus, the commission chairman. "It's unfortunate and unrealistic. Our towns are good towns."
Mr. Mingus, 48, a mental health professional, said the commission intended to take a broad look at diversity and tolerance.
"We will keep it open to all areas," he said. "It's something nobody has on the scope all the time. We have to change attitudes."
Another member of the commission, Charles Randle, 53, who is black, said he had lived in an upscale neighborhood of East Peoria for 17 years with no difficulty. But Mr. Randle said he could not forget the searing experience of childhood on a cotton plantation in Mississippi, where two of his brothers, then young boys, were jailed for supposedly whistling at a white woman. To escape that life, their father, a sharecropper, moved his wife and 10 children to Peoria, where he worked at a slaughterhouse and then started a series of successful family businesses.
Mr. Randle, the director of economic development for Illinois Central College, said he saw the Human Relations Commission as a chance for East Peoria "to step outside the box and look around."
Other communities have made similar efforts.
In Boise, Idaho, several years ago, the state's image began to worry the staff at Hewlett-Packard, said Cindy Stanphill, the company's diversity and staffing manager.
"When we recruit, people know about Idaho potatoes and the Aryan Nations," Ms. Stanphill said. "The image does not necessarily represent the reality, but you have to deal with both."
For three years, the Hewlett-Packard staff has tried to find ways to insure that people they recruit and employ in Boise feel welcome at work and in the community. Staff members are now trying to organize an Idaho Inclusiveness Coalition, a group of major employers and human rights groups to promote tolerance and celebrate diversity.
In Pennsylvania, the state's Human Relations Commission has helped more than 50 communities form groups to do something about hate. One group started in Boyertown, a historically all-white community northwest of Philadelphia where the Ku Klux Klan distributed recruitment literature once a month.
Residents formed a unity coalition and asked citizens to pledge 5 cents to 50 cents for each minute the Klan spent in town. The money went to civil rights groups and helped organize the town's first rally to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
The head of the local Klan complained that the group, which was collecting $1,051 an hour, was using the Klan's name to raise money, said Louise Doskow, a member of the coalition. But the group persisted. "We have raised over $11,000," Ms. Doskow said. "We did it every month for 13 months, then they didn't show up again for a year. One person came to the corner at the end of June, so we did another collection."
The experiences of these communities and others, collected by Jim Carrier, a former reporter for The Denver Post, have been added to an updated version of "Ten Ways to Fight Hate." Mr. Carrier said the Southern Poverty Law Center would distribute a million free copies of the booklet and a companion, "Responding to Hate at School." The booklets will go to every school principal, mayor and police chief in the nation, as well as to human rights groups, religious leaders and interested citizens.
One group profiled, Coloradans United Against Hatred, was formed after an African immigrant was murdered by a skinhead in 1997. Seeing the use of the Internet by hate groups, the group set up its own Web site to offer an alternative.
"Are we making a huge impact?" said Anita Fricklas, the Colorado director of the American Jewish Committee, which helped underwrite the project. "It's hard to know. But an impact? Definitely."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In July, the Rev. David Ostendorf, head of a group that fights white supremacist ideas, led a prayer vigil in front of the East Peoria home of Matthew F. Hale, the leader of a white supremacist group. Dennis Triggs, left, East Peoria's City Attorney, and Mayor Charles Dobbelaire have started a campaign against hate in their community. (Photographs by Fred Zwicky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (69%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD CHURCH OF THE CREATOR SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (69%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD CHURCH OF THE CREATOR SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST PEORIA (ILL); UNITED STATES (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; HATE CRIMES; BLACKS; JEWS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; FRINGE GROUPS AND MOVEMENTS CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, JO; OSTENDORF, DAVID (REV); SMITH, BENJAMIN; HALE, MATTHEW MORRIS DEES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



459 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Possible Rift For Detroit In Labor Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 20

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler A.G.'s tentative contract with the United Automobile Workers contains company concessions that may create problems when the union demands similar concessions next from General Motors and Ford.
DaimlerChrysler agreed in the contract to hire more employees if the work force at any factory complex falls by more than 5 percent during the four-year contract for any reason except a downturn in automobile sales. 
 While DaimlerChrysler has a relatively young work force and has been hiring more workers to keep up with demand for its sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, the Ford Motor Company and particularly the General Motors Corporation have large, older work forces that they have been trying to reduce through attrition.
DaimlerChrysler also agreed to a so-called side letter that contained a surprisingly categorical ban on any move to get rid of unionized businesses. Over the years, the U.A.W. has sometimes allowed auto makers to have different side letters provided that they accepted identical labor contracts. But the DaimlerChrysler side letter represents a precedent for an effort by some in the union to stop Ford's planned spinoff of its auto parts division, which has $18 billion in annual sales.
Details of the contract emerged in a compendium of contract provisions prepared by the union as labor negotiations accelerated in Canada and the United States today.
Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, said today that the risk of a strike against Ford there on Tuesday night was receding, but that a 35 percent chance of a walkout remained. And Stephen P. Yokich, the U.A.W.'s president, said that intensive talks with G.M. in the United States would start on Tuesday.
For the current labor contract, DaimlerChrysler and G.M. had proposed to guarantee the jobs of current U.A.W. members with at least 10 years of seniority. In exchange, both auto makers wanted relief from a provision in the previous contract, which expired on Sept. 14. The provision required DaimlerChrysler, G.M. and Ford to hire more workers if employment in any region of the United States fell by 5 percent or more from 1996 levels because work was moved to other factories.
But the U.A.W. rejected that proposal. The compendium of contract provisions released today showed that the union and DaimlerChrysler did not agree on job guarantees for senior workers. Instead, they retained the rule requiring new hiring and broadened it to require that workers be hired if employment fell sharply for any reason, and not just because work was transferred to other factories. The rule also appears to require new hiring if employment falls steeply at a single factory complex instead of in a region.
The new contract language is complicated, however, and has a few small pieces of good news for the auto makers. For example, the required drop in employment before new hiring occurs will relax somewhat over the four years of the contract. A 10 percent drop in a factory complex's work force will be required to lead to new hiring by the end of the contract in 2003. The provision could nonetheless pose problems for G.M. and Ford. G.M. had been hoping that up to 6 percent of its work force will retire each year for the next several years and would not have to be replaced. Ford has been reducing employment at its older car factories in Ohio while hiring workers at sport utility vehicle factories in Kentucky, and has run afoul of the "5 percent" rule in Ohio. Partly as a result, Ford has paid Ohio workers up to $45,000 apiece to move to Kentucky.
Yet the 1996 agreement also turned out to have important loopholes that still allowed G.M. in particular to continue shrinking its work force, although not quite as quickly as executives had hoped. Whether the current contract has such loopholes will not be known for months, but Diane Swonk, the chief economist at the Bank One Corporation, predicted that the auto makers would be able to continue downsizing somewhat under the new agreement.
Ford and G.M. declined to comment today on the DaimlerChrysler contract. DaimlerChrysler officials also refused to discuss it.
Regarding the side letter, the union's summary said: "The new letter states that DaimlerChrysler will not close, nor partially or wholly sell, spin off, split off, consolidate, or otherwise dispose of in any form, any plant, asset or business unit of any type, constituting a bargaining unit under the agreement."
While the union has always demanded that each auto maker accept virtually identical labor contracts, covering issues like wages and benefits, side letters are tailored to each auto maker's circumstances. DaimlerChrysler's side letter could nonetheless create problems for Ford, which is making plans to spin off or sell its auto parts division, Visteon Automotive Systems. The U.A.W. has left negotiations with Ford for last this year, and could ask Ford for a similar side letter.
While Ford has long had the best labor relations in the auto industry, the union is divided on how to handle Visteon, union officials said. While many want to prevent a spin-off of Visteon, others note that G.M. spun off its auto parts unit in May without reaching an understanding with the union first. Because in-house auto-parts divisions tend not to be competitive, stopping Ford from following G.M.'s example would result in the union's penalizing Ford for having tried to negotiate the issue.
The U.A.W. compendium of the contract also said that there had been no changes in DaimlerChrysler's prescription drug plan. Complaining of steeply rising costs, the auto makers had sought higher co-payments for prescriptions, particularly for popular medicines like Viagra, an impotence treatment.
Over the years, U.A.W. compendiums of labor agreements have tended to be accurate because misrepresentations could result in subsequent challenges to ratification votes.
In Canada, Mr. Hargrove, the Canadian union leader, said at a news conference this afternoon that he saw only a 35 percent chance of a strike when his union's current, three-year contract with Ford expires at 11:59 P.M. on Tuesday. Ford's initial offer on Friday had infuriated Canadian union officials, who dismissed it as inadequate, but Ford revised its offer on Sunday and negotiations since then have gone fairly well, Mr. Hargrove said.
"Our focus and energy is to try to do this without a shutdown of production," he said, while cautioning, "I'm reluctant to say we can avoid a dispute here."
James Hartford, a Ford spokesman, said "there are still a heck of a lot of things that remain on the table." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (96%); DAI (BIT) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLERCHRYSLER; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS DAIMLER AG (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; SALES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



460 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Colombian Leader Says U.S. Won't Be Drawn Into War

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 20

 BODY:
President Andres Pastrana of Colombia insisted today that despite his Government's request for a huge new infusion of aid from abroad, the United States would not be drawn more deeply into Colombia's 40-year fight against leftist rebels.
"The times of intervention are over," Mr. Pastrana said in an address to the United Nations on the opening day of the General Assembly. "These are times of cooperation." 
 In an interview, Mr. Pastrana sought to reassure Americans about the Clinton Administration's deepening commitment to Colombia, saying military aid and training would be channeled mainly to special units like army battalions being formed to fight rebels who support the drug trade.
Mr. Pastrana indicated that his Government had decided not to ask the United States for sophisticated attack or transport helicopters. Instead, he said, Colombia will seek American authorization to buy such aircraft with its own money.
Colombia will seek United States aid to strengthen its radar and refurbish or replace many of its air force jets as part of a stepped-up effort to intercept planes involved in the drug trade flying into and out of the country, Mr. Pastrana said.
He said that Colombia, for the first time, had joined Peru in trying to shoot down such planes. American officials confirmed that the new policy took effect last year.
The Pastrana Administration is seeking at least $3.5 billion in international aid over the next three years to carry out a wide-ranging strategy to deal with leftist and rightist insurgents, a surging drug trade and a faltering economy.
Colombian officials hope that most of that aid will come from the United States, and they are using Mr. Pastrana's visit to New York and Washington this week as a diplomatic sales tour that will include meetings with President Clinton, Congressional leaders and others.
Privately, Colombian officials did not deny that they hope American help is well above the $1.5 billion that Clinton Administration officials cited last week as the high end of what they have considered providing to Colombia over the next three years. The United States is giving Colombia $287 million in the fiscal year that ends this month, according to State Department figures.
In the interview, Mr. Pastrana seemed to have no quarrel with the notion, widespread in Washington, that his year-old Government is in trouble.
"It has been a difficult year," he said wearily as he sat back in an armchair in his midtown hotel suite. In the next room, a pile of Colombian newspapers announced that leftist rebels had decided again to suspend their participation in peace talks.
But Mr. Pastrana pointedly challenged the American perception that the most serious new turn in Colombia's troubles is the growing alliance between drug producers in the south and the leftist guerrillas there who tax the producers' crops or protect their laboratories and fields.
While the guerrillas may be growing stronger and the traffickers are recovering from serious blows in the mid-1990's, Mr. Pastrana said, their violence is not as serious as it was a few years ago when rival drug cartels were still fighting ruthlessly against each other and the state.
"The security issue was much more serious in Colombia at the end of the 80's and the beginning of the 90's," he said. "What is happening now is that the security problem is becoming mixed up with the economic problem."
With the Government's debt burden at a critical level, commodity prices falling and unemployment on the rise, Mr. Pastrana said, the country simply cannot afford to fight its battles alone, particularly those against powerful cocaine and heroin traffickers.
"Colombia is ready to put up some cash, and we are putting it up, but we need international aid," Mr. Pastrana said. "This is a partnership in which all of us must contribute -- the Americans, the Colombians, the Europeans, the Asians."
American officials said the Pastrana Administration hoped to obtain at least $775 million in loans from international financial institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and that the total could rise to as much as $1.5 billion. But despite talk of "international cooperation," the officials said, Colombia will turn to the United States for almost all of the remainder.
While his aides said that about 55 percent of Colombia's proposed aid would be spent to fight drug trafficking, the leftist guerrillas and right-wing paramilitary groups, Mr. Pastrana also sounded frustrated with the lack of emphasis in Washington on social development, the substitution of other crops for drugs and trade programs.
"For the first time, we are looking at not just the police part of this; we are looking at the economic part," he said. "This is what we have to make people aware of in the United States and elsewhere."
Discussing details of his military aid request for the first time, Mr. Pastrana said he would not ask the United States to provide the Colombian Army with advanced UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters to use as troop transports, as American officials expected. Instead, he said he would seek American authorization to buy as many as 15 aircraft and arm at least some of them for use against the guerrillas. Such arms generally include small machine guns and rocket launchers.
The shift -- which officials said would also involve using smaller UH-1N helicopters to transport a new American-trained army antidrug battalion -- would probably mean less American scrutiny on the Colombian military's use of the helicopters as gunships against the guerrillas. The Colombians had previously considered buying Apache and Cobra attack helicopters, officials said, but had been discouraged in part by the difficulty they were likely to have in getting American authorization.
Mr. Pastrana also indicated that he would seek to expand a program under which the United States is soon to refurbish 10 of the Colombian Air Force's fleet of 14 A-37 fighter jets, installing radar in 5 of them. In a telephone interview from Bogota, the air force commander, Gen. Hector Fabio Velazco, confirmed that Colombian jets had shot down 4 drug planes since late last year, while hitting 11 others and forcing down 10.
The Colombian Defense Minister, Luis Fernando Ramirez, said that as part of the plan, Colombia hoped to create as many as four of the new counternarcotics battalions over the next three years in addition to the first such unit, which is expected to begin operations at the end of the year. He also said the Colombian military hoped to as much as double its contingent of 2,500 navy and army troops now fighting drug traffickers and their guerrilla allies along the country's rivers.
Clinton Administration officials said they were generally pleased with Mr. Pastrana's plan, which Colombian officials presented to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright last Thursday. But Administration officials are continuing to debate how they should seek financing for the plan to keep Republicans in Congress from cutting other foreign aid programs.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Custom Agencies in Accord
 By The New York Times
MIAMI, Sept. 20 -- The United States Customs Service and its counterpart in Colombia will sign an agreement on Tuesday that, customs officials say, will help the two countries investigate drug smuggling and money laundering.
Under the agreement, the officials said, both countries can obtain evidence and help in building cases directly from their customs counterparts, rather than through slower diplomatic channels.
 In particular, they said, the accord will help both countries investigate what he called the "black market peso exchange," which funnels some $5 billion in drug profits into Colombia every year.
With the signing of the agreement, customs officials in both countries will be able to exchange information on products and producers often used in the laundering scheme, officials said. In the past, such information was gained only informally or through diplomatic exchanges.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Andres Patrana of Colombia in New York yesterday. He said in an interview that the large amount of American aid he is seeking should not drag Washington into the Government's 40-year battle with leftists. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CIVIL WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMIES (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); TRENDS (74%); ARMED FORCES (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); HELICOPTERS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



461 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Federal Commission Predicts Increasing Threat of Terrorism

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The United States faces increasing threats from terrorism in the next 25 years and is likely to be compelled to intervene in other conflicts like Kosovo and East Timor even as its military shrinks, a Federal advisory commission warned in a report issued today.
The report makes grim predictions about crises and threats at home and abroad. The commission, headed by former Senators Gary Hart and Warren B. Rudman, warns in the 143-page report that the country "will be vulnerable to an increasing range of threats against American forces and citizens overseas, as well as at home," from terrorists or rogue states. 
 "While conventional conflicts will still be possible, the most serious threat to our security may consist of unannounced attacks on American cities" by terrorist groups using germ warfare, said a report summary. "Another may be well-planned cyber-attack on the air traffic control system on the East Coast of the United States as some 200 commercial aircraft are trying to land safely in a morning's rain and fog."
The commission predicted that the American military will increasingly be called upon to conduct humanitarian missions and what the Pentagon calls "operations other than war" in trouble spots around the world. But its status and influence will fuel resentment toward the United States, making it a target for attacks at home and abroad. In one of its grimmest predictions, the report added, "Americans will likely die on American soil, possibly in large numbers."
The commission said the United States is not prepared to defend itself against terrorist threats at home. That, its report concluded, will lead to more pressure on the military to expand its scope into domestic law enforcement as the line between foreign and domestic threats is blurred.
The commission's effort is the latest in a series of reviews undertaken inside and outside the Government during the last few years to try to assess threats to the United States in the post-cold-war era. Many of its findings echo those made by the Pentagon's own Quadrennial Defense Review in 1997 and a Congressional group, the National Defense Panel, which issued a report a year later.
Still the commission is expected to influence the debate over funding for the Pentagon and its programs for dealing with new threats, including a stronger focus on chemical and biological weapons and a missile defense system.
At a news conference last week previewing the report, Mr. Rudman said he hoped that the commission's work would ultimately lead to a rethinking of the organization of the nation's national security agencies -- the way similar reviews after the end of World War II led to the creation of the Air Force, the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council. The commission stopped short of offering prescriptions, saying it would offer those in its subsequent reports.
In looking ahead, the commission was not entirely gloomy. The spread of democracy, advances in medicine and technology and new economic opportunities raise the prospect of increased stability and security around the world, it said.
But some of the same trends have less benign consequences. The increasing integration of the world's economy will mean that economic crises that were once local might spread, while scientific advances could hasten the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as missiles to fire them. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; EAST TIMOR; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); CYBERCRIME (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (53%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; HART, GARY; RUDMAN, WARREN GARY WARREN HART (72%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



462 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

NAME: Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Raisa Gorbachev, the Chic Soviet First Lady of the Glasnost Era, Is Dead at 67

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany. She was 67.
The cause was leukemia, aides to Mr. Gorbachev said. She had been under treatment in University Hospital in Munster since late July. 
 Mr. Gorbachev's rise to the leadership of the Communist Party in 1985 was the first sign of a seismic shift in the Soviet Union's calcified politics and economy. But it was Raisa Gorbachev who, both at home and abroad, soon came to embody the changes to come. She emerged as a First Lady who had her own mind, her own style and according to reports of a secret videotape that circulated after one of her foreign trips, her own American Express card.
None of this endeared her to the Soviet public, who began to grumble early in her husband's tenure that she was too pushy, too flashy and too influential. Her appearances on foreign trips and her cultural projects at home stirred debate in many Russian kitchens over whether the proper place for Kremlin wives was -- as it had always been -- at home, or at least in the background.
But since the beginning of this month, when Russians first learned that their former First Lady had been hospitalized in Germany with an advanced and rare case of leukemia, sentiments toward her in Russia began to shift. Favorable articles began to appear in the press, and thousands of letters and telegrams of sympathy arrived at the hospital in Munster, where her husband kept a faithful vigil that touched many Russian hearts. "It must be in the Russian character -- to run somebody into the mud, and them laud them to high heavens after a tragedy strikes," said Vladimir Polyakov, a Gorbachev spokesman.
President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev's bitter rival in the early 1990's, sent a message of condolence today, and in a statement he said that a "wonderful person, a beautiful woman, a loving wife and mother is no longer with us."
In his autobiography, published in 1996, Mr. Gorbachev acknowledged that the resentment over his wife's high profile surfaced in letters written to the Communist Party's Central Committee. "Who does she think she is, a member of the Politburo?" he quoted one as saying. "The simplest answer would have been: 'No, she is my wife.' "
She first became known in the West in 1984 when she accompanied her husband, then a ranking member of the Soviet Politburo, to Britain, where they were received by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Diplomats and reporters, scanning the couple for clues about the next generation of Soviet leaders, quickly focused up on her wardrobe -- in particular her gold lame sandals with chain straps, a far cry from the dowdy shoes worn by other Kremlin wives. On a later trip to France, the French press labeled her clothes "elegant, but not chic."
On her foreign travels, she also became known for a haughty conversational style that bordered on the pedantic. During the 1986 summit meeting in Reykjavik, Iceland, she needled her tour guides with persistent questioning, adding didactic commentary of her own. Visiting the United States for the first time in 1987, she irked Nancy Reagan with lectures on subjects ranging from architecture to socialism, reportedly prompting the American President's wife to quip, "Who does that dame think she is?"
As she became more comfortable in her role as the Soviet First Lady, she loosened up and her wardrobe became more subdued. On a visit to Washington in 1990, she established more friendly relations with Barbara Bush, from whom she got a recipe for blueberry pie.
Born in the Siberian city of Rubtsovsk, Raisa Titarenko grew up as the daughter of a railway engineer. She graduated from school with a gold medal -- top honors in the Soviet system -- and went on to the prestigious University of Moscow. She was studying philosophy there when she met Mr. Gorbachev, then a law student. According to his book, he was smitten, but she was aloof.
"Our first meeting had not impressed Raisa at all," he wrote. "She seemed calm and indifferent -- judging by the look in her eyes." Not much later, at an impromptu party staged by Mr. Gorbachev's roommates for Raisa and her friends, "I wanted to impress her," he wrote, but "I think I made a terrible fool of myself. She was reserved and was the first to suggest breaking up the gathering."
After an intense courtship, the two penniless students were married in 1953, the year of Stalin's death. They had one daughter, Irina, born in 1956, who survives her along with Mr. Gorbachev and two granddaughters.
After the couple completed their college work in 1955, the family returned to Mr. Gorbachev's home region of Stavropol in southern Russia. There Mrs. Gorbachev completed a doctoral dissertation, entitled "The Emergence of New Characteristics in the Daily Life of Collective Farm Peasantry," based on an unusual amount of field research, which was accepted by the Lenin Pedagogical Institute in Moscow.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
As the wife of the Soviet leader, she was enlisted as a board member of the Soviet Cultural Foundation, headed by Dmitri S. Likhachev, one of Russia's most distinguished academicians, which was created to promote the arts and to restore the country's cultural heritage.
In this role, she became one of her husband's conduits to the Russian intelligentsia, which was then rallying to his call for more "glasnost," or openness. As Soviet censorship eased, the Soviet people rushed to rediscover books and parts of their own history that had been buried under a rigid Communist ideology.
Mrs. Gorbachev's most traumatic moments came during the August 1991 coup, when the Gorbachevs were held hostage at a seaside villa in the Crimea while a group of Communist hard-liners tried to seize control in Moscow. The coup failed, and Mr. Gorbachev and his family returned to Moscow, visibly shaken. "Raisa Maksimovna took it very hard," said Mr. Gorbachev at a news conference after their return to Moscow.
In 1991, Raisa Gorbachev published a book of reminiscences, entitled in English, "I Hope," which she decided to write after a visit with Mrs. Bush in 1990 to Wellesley College where, she said, "the girls showered me with questions." Reviewers found the book self-serving in parts but also informative about the couple's intellectual journey as, together, they came to realize the flaws in the Soviet system.
In her last years, Mrs. Gorbachev started a club that drew together a dozen well-known and high-powered Russian women for conferences, charitable projects and informal debates. She described the group as an attempt to promote a civil society in Russia. Against her wishes, the club became known as the Raisa Maksimovna Club.
Lyudmila Telen, a deputy editor at the newspaper Moscow News and a member of the club, said her impressions of Mrs. Gorbachev changed as she got to know her better. "She set herself very high goals -- she felt she had to improve herself," said Ms. Telen. "Going from wife of a provincial first secretary to First Lady was a big jump.
"She wanted to represent the country in a new way. She understood that what Mikhail Sergeyevich was doing was a revolution, but she had many complexes, too -- a natural reserve and a Soviet way of behavior that she tried to overcome."
Ms. Telen said Mrs. Gorbachev was well aware of the resentment against her felt by many Russians. But she herself was never bitter. "She realized that people had been used to different women, different traditions, different leaders," said Ms. Telen. "She understood it. It hurt her of course, but I never heard her be mean or bitter about it."
As a couple, the Gorbachevs shared interests in philosophy and literature, theater and politics. Mr. Gorbachev on several occasions acknowledged that he often turned to his wife for advice. In his book, he recalled how the two would have their most serious discussions in the garden of their Government-provided apartment, beyond the earshot of K.G.B. eavesdropping devices.
Their close relationship was the envy of their friends. At a dinner in Paris in the fall of 1985, her host said she confided: "I am very lucky with Mikhail. We are really friends, or if you prefer, we have great complicity."
After the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991, when Mr. Yeltsin took over Mr. Gorbachev's office in the Kremlin, he became a political pariah in Russia, widely blamed for ushering in reforms that led to a decade of political and economic instability.
After a disastrous run for the presidency in 1996, he maintained a low profile at home, while Mrs. Gorbachev, who accompanied him on the international lecture circuit, became practically invisible until her recent illness.
With a diagnosis of acute lukemia, Mrs. Gorbachev was rushed to the hospital in Munster on July 25. News of her hospitalization became public only in early August.
According to Russian news reports, Mr. Gorbachev remained at her side day and night. "Dear God," the former Soviet President, visibly exhausted, told a Russian television reporter on Aug. 9, "for her to undergo such a drama these two days before my very eyes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Gorbachevs leaving Moscow in 1987 on one of their many trips abroad. Raisa Gorbachev had a tense relationship with Nancy Reagan and, as she relaxed in her role, a more friendly one with Barbara Bush. (Camera Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%); AMX (LSE) (56%); AMEXP (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LEUKEMIA (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, RAISA MAKSIMOVNA; BOHLEN, CELESTINE; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S RAISA MAKSIMOVNA TITORENKO GORBACHEV (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



463 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Big Quake Hits Taiwan, Leaving Hundreds Dead
A powerful earthquake rocked Taiwan before dawn today, killing hundreds and trapping hundreds more in collapsed buildings. Many people were sleeping when the earthquake struck and may have been unable to get out of buildings in time, becoming buried under debris. Taipei, the capital, appeared to be hard hit. A1
 
Warning Sounded at U.N.
Secretary General Kofi Annan, in an address on the opening day of debate in the General Assembly, urged the Security Council to act faster and more effectively to meet the challenge of a world engulfed in civil wars that quickly descend into the slaughter of helpless civilians. A1 

Iraq Refuses Inspections
Iraq indicated that it was not ready to go along with any of the proposals for a new system for United Nations weapons inspections. A5
 
Peacekeepers Arrive in Dili
More than 1,000 Australian soldiers, the vanguard of an international peacekeeping force, took positions throughout the silent and broken capital of East Timor, Dili. There was no resistance, but no welcome, either. A1
Indonesia's top military commander, Gen. Wiranto, disputed reports of thousands of deaths in East Timor and said fewer than 100 people had been killed in the bloodshed. A10
 
U.S. Security Threats Outlined
A Federal advisory commission said the United States would face threats in the 21st Century from economic crises and terrorism and be drawn into more military interventions. A7
 
Colombia Reassures U.S.
President Andres Pastrana asserted that despite his Government's request for a huge new infusion of aid, the United States would not be drawn more deeply into Colombia's 40-year fight against leftist guerrillas. A3
 
K.L.A. Agrees to Disband
The Kosovo Liberation Army agreed to disband and be replaced by a civilian force that would be nominally defensive and only lightly armed. A8
 
Hearings on Money Laundering
Congress opens hearings today on allegations of Russian corruption and money laundering. Lawmakers expect a partisan fight over President Clinton's policies, and an examination of the effects on American and international financial systems. A14
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A18-27
 
2d White Man Is Convicted In Dragging Death of Black
A Texas jury found Lawrence Russell Brewer, 32, guilty of capital murder in the beating and dragging death of a 49-year-old black man last year. Mr. Brewer, above, the second of three white men charged in the killing of James Byrd Jr. to be convicted, faces death or life in prison. A18
 
Gulf Storm Menaces Florida
A tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico strengthened as it headed for Florida's west coast, bringing with it high winds and expectations of flooding today. A cruise ship of the Carnival Line, with more than 1,700 aboard, managed to restart one of its two stalled engines and get under way to try to avoid the storm. A26
 
Lab Security Found to Improve
The Energy Department said a review had found that security at the Los Alamos National Laboratory improved but that security procedures at the nation's two other weapons laboratories, Lawrence Livermore and Sandia, still lagged. A20
 
Vote for Medical Marijuana
Voters in the District of Columbia learned that 10 months ago they overwhelmingly voted in favor of a measure that would allow marijuana to be used for medical purposes. Congressional opponents of the measure blocked a count of the votes until Friday, when a Federal judge ruled that the ballots could be tallied. A27
 
Black Farmers File Bias Claims
Nearly 15,000 black farmers have applied for a share of a multibillion-dollar Federal settlement over past discrimination, far surpassing the expected number of claims, lawyers said. A25
 
A Break With Tradition
William R. Ferris, whom President Clinton appointed chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, announced that Mr. Clinton would give the annual Jefferson Lecture on the Humanities. Because the choice is usually a leading scholar, Mr. Clinton's selection raised concern in some quarters that the endowment might be politicized. A25
 
Pat Buchanan's Views
The shadow competition for the Presidential nomination of the Reform Party has become embroiled in Pat Buchanan's views, expressed in his new book, that Hitler presented no threat to the United States after Nazi Germany's initial victories of World War II. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
F.B.I. Supervisor Named To Lead New Jersey Police
Governor Whitman nominated Carson Dunbar, an F.B.I. supervisor in New York and a former state trooper, to head the New Jersey State Police. Mr. Dunbar, 47, who disclosed that he was the subject of a racial-profile traffic stop several years ago, promised to strengthen the force's recruitment and disciplinary procedures and change its culture so that racial bias is not tolerated. A1
 
Encephalitis in Westchester
Two people in Westchester County have contracted the mosquito-borne disease, officials said, adding they would begin spraying pesticide on the southern third of the county on Thursday. The cases are the first in the current outbreak to be reported outside of New York City. A1
 
Lingering Effects of Floyd
Parts of New York and New Jersey remained in the sodden grip of last week's storm, with thousands still homeless or lacking utilities. B1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES C25
 
Raisa Gorbachev
The former First Lady of the Soviet Union was 67. C25
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Heading for Mars
The first of two American spacecraft approaching Mars is to arrive on Thursday, when it will begin to orbit the planet to study the atmosphere and prospect for water. F1
 
Transplanted Hand Functioning
A man who received a new right hand and forearm in a transplant operation has gained a sufficient grip to ride a motorcycle and even write with a pen, his doctors say. F7
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
FASHION B10
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Comparing Biographies
The publisher of "I Have Not Yet Begun to Fight: A Life of John Paul Jones," by James Mackay, delayed release for a check on its similarities to the last major Jones biography. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Warning From Apple
Apple Computer said shipments, revenue and earnings for the current quarter would fall short as a result of smaller-than-expected deliveries of microprocessor chips from Motorola. The warning, issued after the markets closed, quickly drove down share prices almost 10 points in after-hours trading, to $69.875. C1
 
Auto Worker Contract Details
DaimlerChrysler's tentative contract with the U.A.W. contains company concessions that may create problems when the union demands similar concessions from G.M. and Ford, judging from contract details made available by the union. C1
 
Oil Talks, but Not a Merger
Chevron and Phillips have discussed a joint petrochemical venture, people close to the companies said, but no merger is imminent. C2
 
Rolls-Royce Buys Vickers
The engine maker Rolls-Royce has agreed to acquire Vickers for $933 million, saying the deal will create a giant in the growing market for engines and other propulsion systems to push ever-bigger ships at ever-higher speeds. Vickers sold Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, which is not connected with the engine maker Rolls-Royce, to Volkswagen last year. C4
 
Food Maker's Overhaul
Quaker Oats announced a three-year effort to streamline its North American operations, including cutting nearly 1,200 jobs, or 10 percent of the work force, closing plants, consolidating some product lines and taking charges against earnings. C7
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Bringing principals into the fold; Floyd's selective damage; a Soviet First Lady; rushed job on nuclear security.
 
Columns: Gail Collins, Anthony Lewis.
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E7
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN & INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE INC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EARTHQUAKES (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); WEATHER (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (84%); HOMICIDE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CIVIL WAR (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); CAPITAL CRIMES (69%); MEN (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); VERDICTS (67%); CORRUPTION (67%); JURY TRIALS (67%); CRUISES (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



464 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Beginning a Bargain-Basement Invasion of Mars

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

 BODY:
Two American spacecraft are approaching Mars, the second wave of economy-class robotic orbiting and landing parties in an ambitious revival of exploration of the red planet.
One spacecraft, scheduled for arrival on Thursday, is to orbit the planet and study its atmosphere, prospect for water and generally observe weather through the seasons of a full Martian year (687 days). The second craft is on course for a landing on Dec. 3 at the edge of the south polar ice cap, where the terrain is thought to hold a layered record of the planet's climate history. 
 Mission officials at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said yesterday that both spacecraft, Mars Climate Orbiter and Mars Polar Lander, are in excellent condition and ready for their arrival. Last week, the orbiter fired thruster jets to fine-tune its aim on the planet.
Though relatively modest in cost and scope, the missions are integral steps in a long-term strategy of sending small spacecraft to Mars at each 26-month opportunity when the orbital relationship is right. Orbiters, landers, roving surface vehicles, balloons and miniaturized airplanes -- at all times over the next decade or more there should be a robotic presence on and over Mars. Their objectives are to map the entire planet and its resources and scout out clues to conditions there in an earlier, more temperate epoch.
Eventual objectives are to return samples of rock and soil, perhaps by 2008, and someday send astronauts for a long visit. Behind this methodical approach is the enduring question of whether life ever emerged on Mars and left some fossil traces, and whether it still exists in some moist recesses of this cold, arid world.
This is a far cry from the fictional travels to Mars that once fired the human imagination. In the marvelous tales of Edgar Rice Burroughs, also creator of Tarzan, the gentleman-adventurer John Carter simply closed his eyes and wished himself all the way to Mars (Barsoom in the novels), where he found spired cities, eight-legged beasts of burden and, not least, the beautiful Dejah Thoris, the princess he wooed and won.
Real-life exploration of Mars has proved to be tame stuff by potboiler standards. Long after the Martians of legend vanished, two spacecraft landed there in 1976 in search not of a princess but of the merest trace of microbial life in the red dust. Finding nothing, and under tighter budget limits, scientists have turned to the even more plodding operations of today.
"We're trying to do a whole lot more with less," said Dr. Sam Thurman, flight operations manager of the current missions. "The public and Congress have told us, 'Space is neat, but it's got to be done at less than a billion dollars a pop.' "
That was the price tag on the Mars Observer spacecraft, which failed just before reaching the planet in 1992. The failure was particularly devastating because the National Aeronautics and Space Administration had put all its eggs in one basket, and was left with nothing. The Viking life-seeking missions in 1976, though operational successes, cost more than $2 billion, a figure no longer acceptable.
By contrast, as a result of NASA orders to develop "cheaper, better, faster" science missions, the complete cost of the present Climate Orbiter and Polar Lander missions has been kept to $327.5 million, Dr. Thurman said. This represents a further paring of expenditures over the first two missions in the current program. The Pathfinder spacecraft, which landed with its little Sojourner rover two years ago, cost $270 million. Another $300 million went for the orbiting companion, Global Surveyor.
Global Surveyor is still going strong, returning the most detailed pictures ever for mapping the planet. The pictures of widespread water erosion and magnetic data showing that in an early period the planet churned with internal heat have further encouraged planetary geologists in their view that ancient Mars was a more Earthlike place, with abundant water, and could have supported the beginnings of life.
"We want to understand the history of that planet from a biological perspective," Dr. Charles Elachi, director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory's space and earth-science programs, said in an interview with Sky & Telescope magazine. He has been in charge of developing the current Mars exploration strategy.
In an effort to answer some of the life and climate questions, the orbiter is equipped to examine the temperatures, dust and clouds in the planet's atmosphere, composed mainly of carbon dioxide, and especially look for water vapor.
"That's a very important part of trying to understand Mars's climate," said Dr. Richard W. Zurek, the chief mission scientist. "We want to learn how water gets into the atmosphere, where it comes from and where it goes."
Launched last December, the 1,387-pound Climate Orbiter is approaching the northern half of Mars. A 16-minute firing of the craft's main rocket should slow it down to enter a wide-ranging elliptical orbit. The spacecraft will loop around Mars once every 14 hours, at first dipping in no closer than 130 miles from the surface.
Then the craft will be maneuvered to a closest approach of 60 miles to use friction from the upper atmosphere to bring its orbit down to a low circular course. This technique, known as aerobraking, was first demonstrated by Mars Pathfinder in 1997. Its advantage is economic: the reduction in the amount of fuel needed for rocket braking means the spacecraft weighs less and could be launched on its journey by a smaller, less expensive rocket.
By the middle of November, the spacecraft should be settled in a 262-mile-high orbit and ready to support the Polar Lander's planned 90-day operations on the surface. During that time, the orbiter is to serve as a communications satellite, relaying radio transmissions between the lander and Earth.
The 1,270-pound Polar Lander, 3.5 feet tall and 12 feet wide, is targeted to touch down on a broad, gently rolling plain near the south pole. Specifically, the landing site is a rectangular area 125 miles long and 12 miles wide, at 76 degrees south latitude, 195 degrees west longitude.
At landing time, it will be the end of spring in the planet's southern hemisphere. The site will be in 24-hour daylight, critical to operations of the solar-powered craft's systems. The thick polar ice cap, in seasonal retreat, will be farther south. But drilling into the frozen surface, the spacecraft should be able to investigate subterranean water ice and the details of the layers of dust and ice deposited there.
"We believe this layered terrain is a record of climate change on Mars," Dr. Zurek said. "In a sense, digging into the surface will be like reading tree rings or layers in an ice core."
Dr. Ronald Greeley of Arizona State University, a member of the lander science team, said a study of the thickness and geometry of the polar layered terrain should test "some of our ideas of how the layers relate to the planet's climate history" over millions of years.
The lander's 6.5-foot-long digging arm will probably take two days to scoop up soil samples and deliver them to an oven. Gases from the heated samples will be analyzed for any evidence of water vapor, among other things. Then the lander's cameras and other instruments are expected to collect data on atmospheric conditions and weather patterns. A microphone is designed to capture the sounds of Mars, perhaps the whistling of winds on the robot arm's digging operation.
To supplement some of its own explorations, the lander is supposed to release two projectiles about 10 minutes before touchdown. These probes are to crash at 400 miles an hour and bury themselves beneath the surface, where they will draw soil samples for heating and another search for vaporized water ice.
By March, when the lander's operations should be ending in the approaching polar darkness, the Climate Orbiter is scheduled to begin its own primary mission. One of its two science instruments is an infrared radiometer for measuring temperatures, dust, water vapor and clouds in the atmosphere from the surface to an altitude of 50 miles.
The orbiter also carries a color imaging system, combining digital wide-angle and medium-angle cameras, developed by Dr. Michael Malin of Malin Space Science Systems in San Diego. The wide-angle camera will be used for daily global pictures of the Martian atmosphere and surface. The medium-angle instrument should provide more detailed pictures of surface changes related to weather and seasonal conditions.
Because temperatures on the planet rarely rise above freezing, most water there is probably stored in the ground, chemically and physically bound to the soil or as ice. This may be especially true in the polar regions. Wherever water is, the orbiter's mission is to investigate its distribution and search for possible surface and subsurface reservoirs.
Now, as the Climate Orbiter cruises toward its encounter, all is quiet for flight controllers. Their simulations are completed. All instructions for maneuvers have been radioed to the spacecraft's computers. And Polar Lander, with another two and a half months to go before its arrival, is essentially flying on autopilot.
Soon enough, the controllers will be busy operating two vehicles at once, and the Global Surveyor as well. As another concession to the budget crunch, said Dr. Thurman, the flight operations manager, the ground support team has been trimmed to 80 people. Seven years ago, Mars Observer had a team of more than 200. And in the 1970's, the Vikings had 500.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about missions to Mars misidentified the craft that first used atmospheric friction, or aerobraking, to achieve orbit around a planet. It was the Mars Global Surveyor. (The Mars Pathfinder made a direct descent to the planet's surface, also in 1997.)

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "A Two-Part Mission to Mars"
The Mars Climate Orbiter will begin circling Mars on Thursday, and the Mars Polar Lander will arrive in December. They will map the planet's surface, study the atmosphere, detect surface ice reservoirs, and dig for traces of underground water.
 
MARS CLIMATE ORBITER
Reaching Mars after a journey of nine and a half months, the orbiter will study climate and water distribution on a planet with temperatures that rarely rise above freezing.
 
THE INSTRUMENTS
 
MARS COLOR IMAGER
will gather images to produce daily global weather images, and will produce a map with 130-foot resolution.
 
PRESSURE MODULATOR INFRARED
 
RADIOMETER will measure temperatures, dust, water vapor and clouds using a mirror to scan the atmosphere.
 
THE MISSION
 
The orbiter will observe weather over a Martian year (nearly two Earth years).
 
AEROBRAKING To reduce velocity and circularize its orbit, the spacecraft will use a technique called aerobraking. Every time the spacecraft dips into the
atmosphere, at the closest approach to the planet in each orbit, friction will cause it to slow down and descend to a lower orbit for its primary operations.
 
SUPPORT AND MAPPING The orbiter will settle into a polar orbit about 262 miles above the surface and await the arrival of the Polar Lander, to which it will act as a communiThe second spacecraft will arrive in December near Mars's south pole, and dig into the layers of dust and ice, a well-preserved record showing 100,000 years of Martian geology and history. As the lander approaches Mars, it will release two microprobes. The probes will collect atmospheric data before crashing and penetrating three feet underground to test new technologies and search for traces of water ice.
 
(Source: NASA)(Illustrations by Juan Velasco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARS (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (57%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (57%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARS (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MARS (PLANET); MARS CLIMATE ORBITER (SPACECRAFT); MARS POLAR LANDER (SPACECRAFT); WEATHER; WATER SPACECRAFT (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (63%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE JOHN CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999



465 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 36; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: What Web Retailers Really Need Is a Whole Lot of Shelf Space

BYLINE: By JON CHRISTENSEN 

DATELINE: RENO

 BODY:
IN a clever advertising campaign promoting itself as "Earth's biggest bookstore," Amazon.com emissaries were portrayed earlier this year as searching for storage space in famously huge places like the Pyramids, the Taj Mahal and even the planet Mars. But about the same time, in the real world, the company was quietly settling into an anonymous-looking warehouse about 30 miles east of here.
The 322,560-square-foot warehouse covers seven acres of former farm fields, an area larger than seven football fields. That is a pretty big building, but not in these parts. Here it is just one of dozens of similar bland, boxy buildings scattered among the sagebrush hills on the outskirts of a city more famous for glittering gambling halls. 
 Hidden inside these otherwise unremarkable structures are the engines of a second economy for this region. In these high-technology warehouses, the virtual world of E-commerce is increasingly blending with the realities of commerce by any name: inventory, order fulfillment and delivery of products to customers.
Here and across the country, dot-coms may see their shares soar, but some of the most mundane types of businesses are benefiting more tangibly, in a little-noticed ripple effect. For the warehouse industry, for instance, E-commerce is already causing significant changes, said J. Eric Peters, a supply chain analyst with Andersen Consulting. "And it's going to get a lot bigger."
More than 80 percent of the nation's warehouses are wired with electronic management systems that keep track of products with bar codes and computerized databases, said Mr. Peters, who surveyed 200 warehouse managers last year. While only 22 percent of the warehouses were connected to the Web at the time, he said, that number is growing rapidly.
Most of the nation's 2.5 billion square feet of warehouse space (enough to cover Manhattan nearly four times over) was set up to store cases and pallets of products for wholesalers and retailers. But E-commerce is pushing the warehouse industry to get wired to meet the growing demand for speedy delivery of small individual packages. And it is pushing on-line companies to master the back end of their businesses.
These two trends meet in warehouses like those scattered near Reno. And inside these buildings, and in similar warehouses nationwide, experts say, some of the critical turf wars in E-commerce will be decided.
"It's fairly easy to put up a pretty neat storefront on the Web," said Dale Rogers, a professor of supply chain management at the University of Nevada, Reno. "But you need a good supply chain behind the store. And that is difficult. Order fulfillment is where a lot of the battles are going to be fought in the future."
Amazon.com moved into a building formerly owned by Stanley Works, a highly mechanized warehouse designed to supply retailers with packages of tools. But Amazon.com has had to reconfigure the inner workings of the building to handle the much more complex task of picking and packing products for individual customers.
Books, CD's and videos are being shipped from the warehouse, and by the end of the year, 300 people will be working there, according to the company. But the company declined to allow a reporter inside the building. Although Amazon.com is moving aggressively to expand its distribution network, it has been uncharacteristically quiet about this more mundane side of its business strategy.
When Amazon.com began in 1995, it had only 93,000 square feet of space for books at its headquarters in Seattle. In 1997, it leased a 202,000-square-foot warehouse in New Castle, Del. This year, it has expanded the back end of its operation almost tenfold, to 2.7 million square feet across the country, with two warehouses in Kentucky and one each in Kansas and Georgia.
Amazon.com shares fell in August after the company announced that it was spending heavily on the distribution centers, further delaying the time when the company will make a profit. The company has not released any details about the cost of the warehouses, but its fixed assets rose to $156 million in June from $29.8 million at the end of 1998.
According to some analysts, distribution was not part of Amazon.com's original business plan. But others say it is a logical and necessary step so that the company can compete effectively and continue to grow.
"It's a similar strategy to how Wal-Mart expanded," said Mr. Rogers, who noted that many Amazon.com executives once worked for Wal-Mart. "They've got cash because of the company's gigantic market capitalization. And they believe they need a lot of facilities with a lot of inventory around the country. And not just to sell books. They're planning to be a big store."
In many cases, experts say, the distinction between E-commerce and other kinds of commerce is getting harder to maintain as more companies conduct more of their business on line. Nowhere is that distinction being blurred more than inside a modern warehouse. Orders arrive by E-mail or on Web pages and electronic bar code readers and radio transmitters are wired to a database that keeps track of the contents. There is an increasingly seamless interface between inventory and information.
The Dell Computer Corporation, for instance, ships computer monitors to the West Coast from a warehouse near here. The computers themselves are built in Austin, Tex., and the two parts meet up on United Parcel Service delivery trucks on their way to customers in a dance choreographed by a Web-based computer tracking system.
More than 500 companies use Reno as a distribution center, including Michelin North America, the parts division of General Motors, J. C. Penney, the winery Kendall-Jackson and the wholesale book distributor Baker & Taylor. Barnes & Noble is looking for a warehouse near Reno after deciding not to pursue a bid to acquire the book distributor Ingram.
Reno has long been attractive as a distribution center because it is close to California and centrally located for shipments throughout the West. Space is cheap and plentiful. There is no inventory, individual or corporate income tax. And the railroad and Interstate 80 provide access.
U.P.S. has a large shipping center here, a crucial ingredient for companies that ship small packages to individual customers, and the United States Postal Service is planning to move a regional sorting center from Oakland, Calif., to the Reno-Tahoe International Airport.
These factors have begun to attract more pure E-commerce to the area, too, like Testwave.com, which sells analytical instruments, and Igo.com, which sells batteries and other accessories for laptops, cellular phones and other tools for business travelers.
Ken Hawk started Igo.com in 1991 when he was attending the Stanford Business School. The company, formerly known as 1-800-Batteries, grew so rapidly that Mr. Hawk found he had to move the business around the Silicon Valley nearly every year to find enough space.
"After four moves, my C.F.O. and I said, 'Why are we in San Jose?' " Mr. Hawk said. "One of the great things about a dot-com is that it can be located anywhere."
Mr. Hawk said he remembered the prediction of Faith Popcorn, the trend forecaster, that in the future people would live in places where they now take vacations, like nearby Lake Tahoe, and would go on vacation in places where they now work, like San Francisco or New York.
Mr. Hawk, who is an avid mountain biker, visited Lake Tahoe. He discovered that it got too much snow in the winter for reliable year-round shipping. But in Reno, at the foot of the Sierra Nevada, he found a place with enough space for his business to grow.
Igo.com is now paying 60 cents a square foot here compared with $1.70 in San Jose, Mr. Hawk said, and it plans to add 40,000 square feet to the 18,500-square-foot-warehouse it leases. The company has grown to 111 employees from 24 since it moved here in June 1997, and it plans to hire 30 more workers over the next six months.
With lower housing costs in the Reno area, Mr. Hawk said, most of his workers can afford to buy homes, something they could not do in Silicon Valley. Employee turnover is lower here, 1.5 percent a year, he said, compared with 30 percent to 50 percent in Silicon Valley. And Mr. Hawk can ride out the back door on his mountain bike into open space, one thing this area has in abundance.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amazon.com's high-technology storage site, covering an area the size of seven football fields, is one of dozens of warehouses in Fernley, Nev., 30 miles east of Reno. (Andy Barron for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (83%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); SWK (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); NEVADA, USA (91%); MARS (73%); 

CITY: RENO, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (83%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO (NEV); UNITED STATES (91%); EARTH (92%); NEVADA, USA (91%); MARS (73%); RENO, NV, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WAREHOUSES INTERNET RETAILING (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); ORDER FULFILLMENT (88%); BOOKSTORES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); WHOLESALERS (75%); TRENDS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (72%); VIRTUAL REALITY (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTENSEN, JON

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



466 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 39; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Can Defendants Cry 'E-Sanctuary' and Escape the Courts?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE prosecution of Kevin Jay Lipsitz, who was accused of trying to peddle magazine subscriptions from Staten Island, would have been a garden-variety consumer fraud case. But because it involved the Internet, it has become a watershed.
Mr. Lipsitz's solicitations for low-cost subscriptions came in the form of spam, group distribution sent through E-mail. But when 50 disgruntled consumers from New York and around the world complained that they never got their subscriptions or received fewer issues than promised, the New York Attorney General accused Mr. Lipsitz and his companies, including Krazy Kevin's Magazine Club and Tempting Tear-Outs, of violating the state's consumer fraud and false-advertising laws. 
 Mr. Lipsitz responded that the New York State court could not possibly have jurisdiction over the geographically limitless domain of the Internet and that, for similar reasons, it would be unconstitutional to apply New York laws.
But ruling in what she said was "a case apparently of nationwide first impression," Justice Diane S. Lebedeff of the State Supreme Court found that Mr. Lipsitz had sufficient connections to New York to enable the state's courts to adjudicate the consumers' claims and that the state's laws did apply.
"To place a realistic context on these matters and leave behind the rarefied air of cyberspace, the issues raised here would be the same if each involved a consumer individually sued in the Staten Island Small Claims Part," Justice Lebedeff wrote in June 1997.
"There is no compelling reason to find that local legal officials must take a 'hands off' approach just because a crook or a con artist is technologically sophisticated enough to sell on the Internet. Invocation of 'the Internet' is not the equivalent of a cry of 'sanctuary' upon a criminal's entry into a medieval church."
THE state of the law governing commerce on the Web is somewhere between the dusty streets of the Wild West and the decorous halls of the Supreme Court.
As path-breaking as the Lipsitz case has become for local law-enforcement and consumer groups, it has only scratched the surface of the legal questions that are arising with the explosive popularity of the Internet as the world's largest bazaar. While a trickle of court opinions in the United States and abroad has begun to define the commercial rules for the Web by applying analogies from older principles, the medium has created problems that defy easy answers.
Many other new technologies, like the telephone and television, raised a host of difficult legal questions. But the questions raised by the remarkably ubiquitous nature of the Internet are forcing an even more significant set of legal issues. In large part, these issues have arisen precisely because the law and the Internet are based on opposite notions.
The law is inherently based on geographic boundaries, historically an effective way to impose a socialized order on human behavior. But the Internet knows no such boundaries and has prospered because of a kind of anarchy. The law can only work when the government or a private plaintiff can identify a wrongdoer as defendant. By contrast, the Internet thrives on anonymity.
Economic realities have put a strain on the development of cyberspace law. Unlike the emergence of technologies like television or radio, the economic barriers to establishing a presence or business on the Internet are stunningly low. This has enabled many small businesses to use the medium to gain exposure to a marketplace that is potentially limitless.
Not surprisingly, these differences between the law and the Internet, and between the Internet and older technologies, have led to the emergence of some legal issues that the courts have never before confronted.
To take the case of Mr. Lipsitz, for instance, what would the judge have ruled if his business had been in New Zealand instead of New York, or if he had not concentrated on New Yorkers? If the court found a sufficient connection to apply its jurisdiction, whose laws should apply? And what kind of remedy would be available to New Yorkers for a business whose assets lay offshore?
More fundamentally, must a business that puts up a Web site abide by the laws and regulations of every jurisdiction around the world -- even those that may be inconsistent -- because anyone anywhere with a telephone, a computer and some basic software can theoretically read and respond to the site?
"The Internet presents a problem of both overinclusiveness and underinclusiveness," said Henry H. Perritt, the dean of the Chicago-Kent College of Law and the author of a legal treatise, "Law and the Information Superhighway" (Aspen Law & Business). "For the seller, there is the potential of much conflicting regulation. But there is also an underinclusiveness problem in that this patchwork may prove not to be efficacious in providing a remedy for victims."
At the Federal Trade Commission, the emergence of the Internet as a significant force in commerce has prompted a reassessment of every law and regulation to see how it could be affected.
Officials have also held a series of conferences and meetings with representatives of companies and consumer groups, and with foreign officials, to begin to make sure that American consumers have the same protections on line that they enjoy off line in every area from advertising that is deceptive to warranties.
But the F.T.C., which is widely regarded as being at the forefront of considering these issues, is only one small piece of a large, global equation, particularly because no international treaties directly address commercial issues and the Internet.
"Right now the battle is pitched, with industry asserting on one side that the law of the originator controls and the consumer groups screaming on the other side that it's the law of the consumer state," said Ronald L. Plesser, a lawyer at Piper & Marbury in Washington who is involved in international conferences on the issue and who represents companies that are confronting it.
"Both of those approaches have problems," Mr. Plesser said. "If you decide it's the law of the originator, then everyone will go to the state or country that has the lowest common denominator, putting their computer servers in those countries to minimize problems. But if you go with the law of the consumer state, you don't often know where that state is, and you wind up having to comply with a wide variety of different and conflicting rules."
He added: "So we're in this murky midlevel right now. The seas and the oceans are forming around us, but if this were viewed like the creation of the universe, we're in about the fourth day."
One way some companies have tried to avoid difficulties is by varying their Web sites. I.B.M., for instance, uses a different Web page for each of 167 countries, an approach that recognizes that the company has assets around the globe and that, by necessity, it must take steps to comply with many different rules.
Many popular auction houses offer to protect consumers by indemnifying them for a fee and acting as mediators in disputes.
Mr. Plesser and other industry lawyers have also suggested a self-regulatory approach through the establishment of basic rules for companies, which, if followed, would innoculate them from liability.
But consumer groups and law-enforcement officials, while applauding that approach as a good first step, say it will not be enough.
"We certainly welcome self-regulation and any effort by on-line businesses to be responsible corporate citizens in the same way they make those efforts off line," said Caitlin J. Halligan, the chief of the Internet Bureau at the New York State Attorney General's office, which expects to receive about 2,000 complaints this year about issues involving on-line dealings.
"But there are obviously situations where enforcement actions are appropriate when a company engages in fraudulent or otherwise unlawful activity," she said. "That's true whether the conduct is on line or off line."
AS for transactions either between two consumers in a chat room or between a consumer and a company, Ms. Halligan advises people to take the same basic precautions that they would ordinarily take, recognizing the possibility that even more problems than usual can arise because of the nature of the Internet.
"You also need to exercise the same, if not more, prudence than you do in an off-line transaction," she said, "particularly since you don't have the item in front of you while you are deciding whether to buy it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LAW AND LEGISLATION CONSUMER LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); EMAIL MARKETING (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); JURISDICTION (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (74%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN KEVIN JAY LIPSITZ (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



467 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 20; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Coming Soon to a Web Site Near You: A Simpler Sales Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
IF you are hoping that the Internet will become a tax-free zone, dream on. Business leaders know that would distort the economy, creating an uneven playing field that would benefit some companies while damaging their competitors. Also, state and local governments are not about to concede a chunk of their single biggest source of revenue, sales and use taxes worth $189 billion last year.
But if you like the standardization that makes a Big Mac the same in Philadelphia and Provo, Utah, you will love what E-commerce is likely to do to your sales taxes. 
 The patchwork of rules that makes a can of soda a taxable nonfood item in Ohio and a tax-exempt food in New York is under attack from all sides in the debate over the taxation of electronic commerce.
"The only certainty about E-commerce is that we will get simplification of the sales tax system," said Robert Cline, a state and local tax expert with the accounting firm Ernst & Young.
Although the debate over Internet taxes is far from over, it is clear that the passage last year of the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which created a three-year moratorium on taxes specifically on Internet activity while a panel of political and business leaders studies the issue, has prompted new thinking about how a tax that arose in the Industrial Age can be made to work in the Information Age.
Sales taxes took hold in the 1930's, promoted as stable sources of revenue in the Depression to pay for the police, teachers and other services. Today, 46 states, 4,831 cities, 1,511 counties and 139 school and special-purpose districts impose sales taxes, Mr. Cline said, which is only about one-fifth of the 30,000 jurisdictions cited by many advocates of a tax-free Internet.
Nevertheless, Mr. Cline sees a serious problem because no map exists that matches every address to each taxing jurisdiction. Thus, a company selling over the Internet could have three customers in the same ZIP code, one of whom owes sales tax at the state rate, one who lives in a city with an added rate and one who lives in the same city and in a special district and owes a third level of tax.
E-commerce and mail-order companies that operate in one state and ship to others have no incentive to create such a sales tax map because under current law they cannot be compelled to collect sales tax. A few companies, like Gateway, the mail-order computer maker, routinely collect sales taxes from all customers.
Creating a sales tax map is possible. J. C. Penney, which has stores in all 50 states and as a result must collect taxes on all sales from its Internet site and its catalogue, has built a detailed ZIP code database to determine the sales tax rate owed by every customer, said Jim Evatz, a Penney tax-compliance manager.
"We feel that a level playing field is an issue," Mr. Evatz said of the advantage enjoyed by competitors who do not collect sales taxes.
Stuart Feldman, the director of the I.B.M. Institute for Advanced Commerce, said, "It is not a big deal for a large firm to keep track of, or to get access to, what the tax rate is for clothing in New Jersey or even in a water district."
The problem, Mr. Evatz and Mr. Feldman agree, is knowing which products and services are taxable. "No uniformity, no rhyme or reason, no plausible categorization," Mr. Feldman said of the sales tax. "When I lived in New Jersey, caviar counted as tax-free food, which I sort of thought missed the point."
How, he asked, is everyone in E-commerce business to know "that purple sweaters are suddenly tax free -- this week only -- in Ulster County."
One E-commerce committee of the National Tax Association, which has representatives from business, government and education, has suggested developing standardized product and services categories but allowing each jurisdiction to decide which will be taxed and by how much. Business members of the association said they wanted absolute national uniformity on what is taxed.
E-commerce raises questions that extend beyond differences among the states and that will become increasingly important as Internet sales become global. For example, American-style retail sales taxes do not integrate well with the European-style value added tax.
E-commerce also raises questions about who is to be taxed and where. In an age when tangible products were paid for at a cash register, the sales tax had the virtues of being obvious to the customer and easy to collect. E-commerce changes that.
CONSIDER the problems posed by the sale of a book over the Internet.
If the book is ordered from a catalogue and shipped across state lines, Congress could easily require a seller like Amazon.com to collect any sales tax and pay it to the state from which the book is shipped or where the bill is sent.
The Supreme Court, in two major sales tax decisions, has told Congress that it has the power under the Constitution's commerce clause to require businesses to collect sales taxes for states to which they ship products, but Congress has never taken the hint. Taxes must be paid if the buyer lives in the same state as the mail-order company, and many Web sites have a button to establish the tax payment.
People who have products sent by mail owe use tax, the individual equivalent of sales tax, but hardly anyone obeys these state tax laws. In New Jersey, for example, only one in 500 people pay use tax. No state has made a serious effort to collect the tax.
But where is the sales tax to be levied when a resident of Buffalo, while changing planes in Pittsburgh, downloads an electronic version of the book before flying to Oregon? Is sales tax due in Buffalo, where the bill goes? In Pittsburgh, where the product was acquired? Or is no tax due because the electronic book is read in Oregon?
And what happens when a business buys a database, stores it on a computer in one city and then has its employees across the nation use it?
Gerald D. Bair, the director of revenue and finance in Iowa, who has been involved with the National Tax Association project to define the issues on Internet taxes, said Congress would have to require companies to comply with all state and local tax laws, which he said would have to be simplified. Otherwise, he said, "states and local governments are going to have to stand up and attempt to enforce their use tax laws." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVO, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE TAXES & TAXATION (94%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); SALES TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); INTERNET SALES TAX (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY JIM EVATZ (68%); ROBERT CLINE (68%); STUART FELDMAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



468 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 12; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Latest Hit on Campus: Crescendo in E-Major

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to offering degrees, the halls of academia are not immune to fashion. Colleges and universities bank on blue-blazer classics like history and philosophy. But they also like to try what's hot every now and then.
What's sizzling right now, given the successes of the dot-com crowd, is the E-commerce credential. In what many professors and administrators say is the fastest trend to take hold in the slow-changing world of higher education, colleges and universities nationwide are rushing to turn the study of business on the Internet into degrees, majors, minors, concentrations, specialties, certificates, fellowships and research centers. 
 "While the University of Alabama does not have an E-commerce program yet, we are working full speed to set one up," wrote Bill Gerdes, a university spokesman, in an E-mail response to a query about E-commerce degrees on the Tuscaloosa campus.
There are as many variations on E-commerce instruction as there are institutions offering it. Of the dozen or so programs now available, some focus on Internet technology, with training in Web-site design, electronic data interchange and authentication technology along with marketing and consumer services. Others concentrate on entrepreneurship and the basics of running a business on the Web, including keeping tabs on finances and inventory.
Some involve intensive curriculums and undergraduate degrees in subjects like computer science or finance. Others make fewer course requirements and would appeal to students who are not necessarily facile with computers.
Carnegie Mellon University's graduate business school in Pittsburgh just introduced a master's of science program in electronic commerce that combines instruction in business and in computer science. The yearlong program, which began last May, costs $38,000 and, the university said, should enable graduates to build and run a company's on-line system from the floor up.
The master's of science program at Marlboro College in Marlboro, Vt., which began in 1997, offers on-line instruction in basic Web design, marketing and strategic planning for Web businesses. The 11-month program requires students to be on campus every other weekend and costs $15,000. "We focus less on deep, technical infrastructure and more on teaching students to orchestrate Internet strategies," said Paul J. LeBlanc, the college's president.
At the University of Florida in Gainesville, a certificate in E-commerce as part of a two-year M.B.A. program is awarded after completion of seven E-commerce courses that cover subjects like pricing of information services and products and one-to-one marketing over the Internet.
Any student at LaSalle University in Philadelphia may qualify as an E-commerce "fellow" by attending two E-commerce courses; courses in other disciplines with an E-commerce component, or a seven-part lecture series. All fellows must write a 2,500-word research paper and work in the field -- for a company or a community service organization, for example -- for 40 hours. The fellowship designation appears on graduates' transcripts, and fellows walk away with portfolios of E-commerce work.
Student interest in new E-commerce degrees and programs has been strong, university administrators say. Carnegie Mellon said it had received 180 applications, from which it chose its initial 37 candidates. Paul R. Brazina, the executive director of LaSalle's new Electronic Commerce Institute, said that 470 students had shown interest in applying to the institute's fellowship program, which is beginning this month.
At Vanderbilt University in Nashville, 110 students, or a quarter of the M.B.A. candidates, have chosen E-commerce as either a concentration or specialty.
Corporations are even more enthusiastic about E-commerce training than college and university administrators. Many companies think that employees with an intimate knowledge of modern computer technologies and E-commerce strategies might give them a competitive edge. Some companies are helping to sponsor E-commerce research centers, sometimes as a means for converting their business problems into case studies that students can try to solve.
"The breadth of companies asking for E-commerce experience, from CS First Boston to General Electric, to start-ups, like Priceline.com, is amazing," said Robert F. Bonner, the director of the career management office at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "A few years ago, companies would say E-commerce experience on a student's resume was 'nice to have.' Now they are saying, 'must have.' "
Wharton, which started its Electronic Commerce Forum three years ago as a research center for corporations, students and faculty members, has stepped up plans to introduce an E-commerce major for graduate students this fall. School officials said they were also considering offering a master's degree in electronic business.
Changes in salaries reflect the growing demand. Five years ago, a new Wharton graduate with experience in E-commerce could expect a starting salary of $62,000, not including a bonus or stock options, Mr. Bonner said. Today, those offers start at $80,000, about $10,000 more than other business fields.
It is not just the computer literate who are making money. The academic foray into E-commerce has been profitable intellectually and financially. In most cases, the new programs have been a financial boon, bringing in tuition dollars and millions in grants to set up E-commerce research centers and faculty chairs.
At Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., a new M.B.A. concentration, known as E-business, and a graduate-level certificate in electronic business have become part of a shift to technology in the entire business curriculum. School administrators said the change in focus had brought in $500,000 in additional tuition this fall along with at least $7 million in related grants and contributions for program support and development.
Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta and Drexel University in Philadelphia have received $1 million each from corporations to establish E-commerce research centers. Both plan to offer E-commerce certificates or concentrations next year.
The new programs also give colleges, universities and graduate schools a drawing card to attract accomplished students who help to improve the overall quality of their applicant pools.
"E-commerce is moving so quickly that people don't have time to wait for experience to teach them," said R. M. Erik Gordon, the director of the Center for Retailing Education and Research at the University of Florida's business school. "The E-commerce credential sends the signal that someone knows something about E-commerce and that they've learned it in a focused and strategic way."
But many professors and business executives dismiss E-commerce degrees and programs as more marketing ploy than academically sound initiative.
"I object to the E-commerce degrees profusely," said Amit Pazgal, a marketing professor who teaches E-commerce at Washington University's John M. Olin School of Business in St. Louis. "I think it's a fad and that universities are just jumping on the bandwagon."
At the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Ryan Nelson, the director of the McIntire School of Commerce, said he turned down a professor's request to start an E-commerce program, arguing that the subject should be an integral part of the business curriculum. Edward A. Snyder, the dean of the university's Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, agreed. "E-commerce degrees are silly in the same way that teaching international business in a global economy is silly," he said.
HARVARD and Stanford have one or more courses devoted to E-commerce, but Harvard, at least, says it has no plans for a separate concentration or E-commerce degree.
"We have a good number of cases that focus on E-commerce throughout the curriculum," said Maura A. Byrne, a Harvard Business School spokeswoman. "But we are a school of general management. That's what it comes down to. Obviously, E-commerce is a hot and important industry to look at. But H.B.S. is about educating leaders and the best managers."
Other objections to starting more E-commerce programs include a shortage of qualified professors and of comprehensive, up-to-date textbooks. Because technology is advancing so quickly, the few E-commerce textbooks, articles and case studies available quickly become obsolete.
There is no shortage of faculty members willing to teach E-commerce courses, administrators say. They generally come from closely allied fields, like computer science or information technology; recent Ph.D.'s whose dissertations were in E-commerce; faculty "gear heads," who have pursued consulting or research on behalf of Web-based businesses, and "disciplinary migrants" -- young and midcareer faculty members looking for fields in which they can become pioneers and make their reputations. The challenge, administrators say, is finding faculty members who are more expert on computers than the students they will be teaching.
With the E-commerce programs still in their infancy, it is unclear what real value they will have, many professors and corporate recruiters say.
"Someone who has been exposed to a lot of dot-com successes and failures, even in an academic setting, would be viewed as more attractive, all things being equal," said Randall Kelley, a managing director with the executive search firm of Spencer Stuart in San Francisco and the head of its technology services practice.
Michael P. Sherman, the executive vice president of the Fingerhut Companies, said, "I don't know exactly what an E-commerce degree is, but if it means more skills in the E-commerce area, we are interested."
But Richard Alexander, who runs his own executive recruiting firm in Lawrenceville, N.J., said that until the E-commerce degree and its recipients established some kind of track record, "it has little credibility."
"It's ludicrous right now," he said. "It's not the Web-site person that companies are looking for. It's the person who has strategic experience and can apply it."
Still, students like James W. Walker see no downside to earning an E-commerce degree. Last May, Mr. Walker, a principal at American Management Systems, an information technology consulting firm in Denver, became one of five students from his company to join Carnegie Mellon's inaugural E-commerce class.
"I looked at the program and was amazed at what they were doing," he said. "I saw that I could further my knowledge of the Internet and acquire the soft skills that many engineers lack. Those are skills I need to move up in management."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beth Staples, left, a senior majoring in English, and Bonnie Sanville, a sophomore in nursing, have enrolled in the fellowship program at the new Electronic Commerce Institute at LaSalle University in Philadelphia. The institute's executive director is Paul R. Brazina. (Michael Branscom for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LASALLE UNIVERSITY (61%); CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY (61%); WHARTON SCHOOL (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING INTERNET & WWW (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (76%); WEB BASED TRAINING (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); MARKETING STRATEGY (71%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); RETAILERS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (66%); PRODUCT PRICING (66%); 

PERSON: TABOR, MARY B W ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



469 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 22; Column 6; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: A Faster Way Of Shuffling The Data Cards

BYLINE: By STEVEN E. BRIER 

 BODY:
Al-go-rithm: 1. a repetitive procedure for solving a problem or accomplishing some end, especially by a computer; 2. the Veg-O-Matic of the data-mining world; it slices, it dices and it's faster than a speeding processor.
At its simplest, an algorithm is a set of instructions required to solve a problem. But at its best, an algorithm is a method of looking at information in ways that are not obvious to answer old questions better and faster, or to answer questions you didn't know you had. 
 "An algorithm is the teeny little engine that makes sense of masses of data," said Christopher Meyer, director of the Ernst & Young Center for Business Innovation in Cambridge, Mass.
Without algorithms, Mr. Meyer said, much of E-commerce would not be possible. Faster performance and unexpected results are what drive E-businesses, he said.
On-line businesses, and their marketing departments, collect mammoth amounts of data about their customers. What they looked at, what they bought, where they came from, where they went, where they live and dozens of other little pieces of information are tracked. Companies want to analyze that information and use it to tune their pricing, product lineup and welcoming screens.
"If you have to have a market analyst looking at every person and seeing what to market to them, it would not be economically feasible," Mr. Meyer said. "But if you can mine the data, you can make a business."
Mining those data requires more than fast processors, said William Pulleyblank, director of Deep Computing at I.B.M.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center. A well-designed algorithm can improve performance in a way that would take years through hardware.
Mr. Pulleyblank uses two methods of sorting 1,000 checks into numerical order to illustrate the improvement in performance that a clever algorithm can provide.
Version one requires rifling through the checks looking for the check with the lowest number and pulling it to the front, then going back and looking for the check with the next-lowest number and putting it behind the first. This would work, but you could end up comparing numbers on more than half a million pairs of checks. That is effective but time consuming.
Now try something different. Instead of sorting one big stack, divide the pile of checks in half. Then divide one of those halves in half again, sort each part and merge them. Now do the same with the other half.
Confusing? Maybe, but you just sorted the checks using only about 20,000 comparisons instead of half a million. And the savings in time grow exponentially with the size of the pile.
That's an algorithm in action. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR DATA MINING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); RETAILERS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: BRIER, STEVEN E CHRISTOPHER MEYER (80%); WILLIAM PULLEYBLANK (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



470 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 26; Column 4; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: A Ripe Target for Web Retailers, Teens Keep Heading to the Mall

BYLINE: By JULIE CONNELLY; Julie Connelly is a freelance writer based in New York.

 BODY:
TIM GEISENHEIMER, a computer savvy 15-year-old, has read most of the books of Iain Banks, the British novelist. But some of the surreal tales by the author are difficult to find in the United States. So a few months ago, the adolescent New Yorker checked in with Amazon.com, ordered what he wanted from England and paid for it with his mother's credit card. He gave his mother, Susan, cash when she received her statement. But she was aghast to discover the cost because the two paperbacks were shipped by air freight.
"Have you any idea what it costs to send books out from the U.K.?" she asked her son. "Before you do it again, let's talk about this." 
 So it is with teen-agers and the Internet. Many grew up wired and think on-line commerce is cool, but their parents, who worry about encouraging spendthrifts and protecting their own privacy, aren't as sure.
With Web retailing still in its infancy, most sites for teen-agers make money from accepting advertising and selling market research to manufacturers. "We don't sell names," said Dan Pelson, the chief executive of Bolt.com, which provides forums and information for teen-agers, "but we do sell trends. We have more data on teen preferences than anyone in the world."
According to Children's Business, a trade magazine, the sites encourage youngsters to "input information such as their names, ages, addresses, preferences, buying habits and even socioeconomic indicators" in an interactive format that doesn't always make it obvious that the teen-agers are taking part in a market research interview.
The potential customer base of teen-agers for on-line retailing is huge. There are 70 million children in the United States born to baby boomers since 1979.
Marketers know them and love them as Generation Y or the Echo Boom, a cohort that is more than 50 percent larger than the 45 million strong Generation X. Roughly 30 million are 12 to 19, a figure that will rise to 33.6 million by 2005. Their spending power is enormous. Teen Research Unlimited, a market research firm, says that teen-agers commanded $141 billion in spending last year, up 16 percent from 1997, and each youngster spent an average of $84 a week.
This teen-age population wave has crashed over the late 20th century's other big trend, the Internet. Find/SVP Research estimates that more than 20 million teen-agers will be on line by the end of the year. Once there, they will spend an average of a little more than seven hours a week on the Web, according to another researcher, Nielsen/Net Ratings.
How do they pass their on-line time? Chatting with their friends by E-mail, naturally -- two-thirds do that, consuming more than four of the seven hours.
Shopping has yet to command anywhere near that investment of time. Teen Research Unlimited surveyed 2,000 12- to 19-year-olds last spring, and of the 14 on-line activities they listed, checking out merchandise to buy at a store was 12th (26 percent of boys and 23 percent of girls did that), and buying goods on line was dead last (13 percent of boys and 7 percent of girls said they had done that). Rachel Geller, a partner at Geppetto, another market research firm, concluded that the Web accounts for a relatively small $1.4 billion of spending by adolescents.
Conversion rates, the industry term for turning an on-line window shopper into an on-line buyer, are still low. Web retailers do not release their figures, but across the Internet, the percentage ranges from one-half of a percent to 2 percent, meaning that only 1 in 50 browsers ultimately buys. Even so, like all Internet players, on-line merchants cannot resist extrapolating their growth into infinity, and sales estimates for the next century climb to 300 percent and 400 percent annual growth.
But what the retailers really do know is that half these youngsters have after-school jobs; they make money and are willing to spend it. "Teen spending is a very growing and important category," said Linda Freedman, the vice president for marketing at Fashiontrip.com, a site for teen-age girls. "They have high discretionary income because they don't pay taxes or rent."
The average on-line purchase is $38.35, according to Cheskin Research, and the goods that youngsters buy reflect what they buy off line at the mall: music, videos, accessories and clothing. Two of the most popular sites are Amazon.com and CDNow.com, though neither caters particularly to adolescents.
Music, however, is probably the easiest thing for youngsters to buy on line. They can sample the audio -- try it on, essentially, before they buy -- so there is less chance that they'll wind up with something that has to be returned.
Other popular Web stores are Delias.com, which has taken its famous catalogue for teen-age girls on line; Jcrew.com; Abercrombie.com, which has managed an amazing transformation from a frowsy purveyor of gun-check hunting jackets to a hip retailer for young men and women, and the ubiquitous Gap.com.
This assortment should not be surprising because there is no more brand-conscious consumer than a teen-ager. These youngsters may not have a clue who they are, but the brands they wear tell the world who they would like to be.
"For Christmas last year, my two brothers, who are 16 and 18, told me they wanted 'anything from Abercrombie & Fitch,' " said Renny Gleeson, the senior vice president at Iturf, the creator of Delia's on-line store. He noted that Brooke Shields and her Calvins brought name brands to the teen-age consumer 20 years ago, and brands have never looked back.
In theory, on-line retailing could turn mall rats into cyberrats, but marketers are hesitant to say so. Instead, they comment on the tendency for virtual merchants to become brick-and-mortar merchants to reinforce their presence on the Web. For example, Delia's, which has five retail stores nationwide, expects to expand to 12 to 16 by the end of the year. Moreover, the mall is still a gathering place. Unlike the Internet, which most youngsters troll from home, the mall is somewhere they go to when they need to get out of the house.
Ekaterina Walsh, a researcher at Forrester Research, said that while teen-agers say they plan to increase their on-line buying, less than 1 percent expect to forsake traditional stores.
In addition, Web shopping has drawbacks.
The most obvious is the one described by Mr. Pelson of Bolt.com: "Teens don't have the 16 digits." Only about 7 percent of teen-agers have their own credit cards. Everyone else has to borrow Mom's or Dad's. But Mom and Dad are worried about being scammed on line and prefer that their children order from catalogues over the telephone.
An on-line survey by Jupiter Communications this year of 2,000 households reported that safety concerns about the Internet are also rising. Seventy-six percent of parents said they were nervous about strangers their children might encounter in chat rooms or through E-mail, and 68 percent said they feared invasion of their privacy through direct-mail solicitations.
Concerns about protecting the personal and financial information of parents and children have given rise to a new solution for which retailers have high hopes, the "digital wallet." These sites let parents establish accounts from which children can draw to shop on line and limit the sites at which the money can be spent.
The big three are Icanbuy, Rocketcash and Doughnet. The average Icanbuy account, for example, is $50, and arrangements can be made for grandparents, aunts and uncles to contribute as well. Forrester Research reports that only 5 percent of teen-agers who buy on line have reached for the digital wallet, but the technology, a little more than a year old, is still in its infancy.
Shopping on the Web has other disadvantages. Purchasers can't try anything on, so they are frequently limited to accessories or items for which size doesn't matter. Even worse, teen-age shoppers frequently can't see what they are buying because the on-screen resolution, to use a technical term, stinks. A man's navy blue sweater at one on-line store was described as a V-neck, but the picture was so muddy, it looked like a crewneck, and shoppers have to take it on faith that the cargo skirt at another retailer has pockets. To rifle through a collection of dresses or khaki pants takes forever, because downloads plod along. Catalogues have much clearer photographs and drawings, and teen-agers can page through them faster.
But these are problems that newer chips and faster modems will eliminate.
The real experience that the Web cannot replicate is social. Shopping is something teen-agers do with their friends, especially girls who want to show each other how cool they look in the blue sweater they just found under a load of awful green ones.
"The Net kind of takes away the whole experience -- the hunt, the get and the buy," said Eva Kuhn, 13, of New York who browses on line but buys in the stores.
"Web shopping is just too perfect" she said. "You type in 'gray cords' and there they are. It's not fun. The fun is the hunt."
That's true, but the nature of the hunt changes on the Web. Teen-agers are extremely value-conscious shoppers, and they will comb the malls to get their favorite brands at lower prices. A growing Net-based economy is likely to push down prices because click-by-click comparison shopping is ultimately far less time-consuming.
"We're building the Bolt economy," Mr. Pelson said. "I can go to a cell phone manufacturer and say, 'I've got 10,000 teens who want your phones, but you sell them for $75 and they'll only pay $45.' That's pricing power as well as buying power."
That buying power exists, and teen-agers are just starting to flex it. Soon, the hunt will be on for the pricing power as well.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thirteen-year-old Eva Kuhn says the fun of shopping "is in the hunt." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (58%); GUIDELINE INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RESEARCH INTERNET RETAILING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); GENERATION Y (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); TRENDS (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); GENERATION X (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); SALES PROSPECTING (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: CONNELLY, JULIE GENERATION X ROUGHLY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



471 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 61; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: For This Supplier, the Sum of Its Parts Adds Up to Success

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
PEOPLE looking for fast-paced, cutting-edge careers tend not to think about manufacturing valves, maintenance products and replacement parts for industry. Even less exciting would be cataloguing and distributing such mundane wares, which is how W. W. Grainger Inc. makes a living.
But Grainger is a good example of how even the most seemingly humdrum businesses are undergoing reconstructive surgery as E-commerce spreads through the economy. And Grainger's story shows how old-line industry stalwarts are not easy to shove aside in the business-to-business E-commerce sector, where reputations for reliability, speedy delivery and expert advice may be even more important than they are with consumer-product companies. 
 Middlemen like Grainger, which is based in the Chicago suburb of Lincolnshire and had $4.43 billion in revenue in 1998, prosper by making life more efficient or less expensive for commercial buyers and sellers. The company says that about 80 percent of all American businesses are within a 20-minute drive of a Grainger branch.
Grainger carries more than 4,000 different sizes and types of motors. It describes its lighting selection as "every light bulb known to man." In all, the company offers its 1.5 million customers about 210,000 products, and its red-covered catalogue (also in CD-ROM form), which runs to more than 4,000 pages, is one of the most widely distributed publications in business. Grainger consultants help businesses sort out purchasing policies, and some companies hire Grainger to make their purchasing decisions.
But even relative giants like Grainger own a small piece of the pie. Businesses spend $300 billion a year in the United States in Grainger's area of expertise: the equipment and services grouped into what is known as M.R.O., or maintenance, repair and operations. They spend $200 billion more managing the procurement offices, receiving operations and other activities that are needed to make those purchases.
No wonder Internet entrepreneurs have smelled opportunity. Although it has happened less visibly than in the book and toy businesses and other consumer markets, Grainger's blue-collar world is also on the menu for upstart companies that are built around powerful software and visions of a new, Internet-based order.
Investors clearly anticipate a revolution in business-to-business commerce. When Commerce One, which created an Internet marketplace for business buyers and suppliers, went public in July, its shares soared to $62 from $21 on the first day of trading. A few weeks earlier, its rival Ariba did even better, with its shares quickly jumping to $90 from $23.
The market is also being shaken up by business-software vendors. For example, Project Software and Development, which is known for production-management software, has set up an Internet marketplace at www.mro.com. By combining orders for its clients, Project Software expects to negotiate lower prices.
GIANTS like SAP and Oracle are also working on Internet-based procurement software that could streamline buying and encourage buyers to cut out middlemen whose computers cannot link to those software programs.
Another group of vendors, including Freemarkets Online, is using the Internet to set up custom auctions. Instead of contacting manufacturers individually or checking Grainger's catalogue for prices and delivery terms, a buyer could tell Freemarket what it needs and let Freemarket set up an auction in which qualified suppliers bid for the contract.
So, is Grainger, with its overhead of more than 15,000 employees and a network of more than 500 branches, in danger of being shoved aside?
Hardly. When it comes to business-to-business electronic commerce, traditional industry leaders have huge built-in advantages, industry analysts say. Businesses are much more varied in their needs than, say, the book purchasers served by Amazon.com or Barnesandnoble.com. Many companies place a high value on proven distribution systems like Grainger's, which their employees know how to deal with, and on the expert advice that experienced middlemen can provide.
"In the end, the bricks-and-mortar companies will win," said Barbara Reilly, the research director of E-business strategies at the Gartner Group in Stamford, Conn.
That is, Ms. Reilly and other analysts say, assuming those companies adopt effective Internet strategies. Few have worked harder at doing that than Grainger, which has invested $35 million in a range of E-commerce initiatives.
"We're focused on leading the evolution," said Donald E. Bielinski, a Grainger group president who is overseeing electronic commerce. That wave is too powerful for Grainger to exert much control over, but analysts say the company is doing a deft job of riding it so far.
"At first I thought they were being defensive, but the more I look, the more I see offensive possibilities," said Russell Leavitt, an analyst at Banc of America Securities.
Grainger set up www.grainger .com, its "digital storefront," in 1995. On-line sales jumped to about $9 million a month this summer from a little more than $3 million a month in the first three months of this year.
Grainger calculates that 20 percent of the traffic on its site takes place outside normal business hours and that the average order is twice the size of the one received through traditional phone and fax contacts.
The company followed up its Web site by developing Orderzone.com, a marketplace where customers can order not just from Grainger but also from leading distributors in other business segments.
Orderzone leaves much to be desired for buyers who want E-commerce sites that are smoothly integrated with their own procurement-management systems. It offers one-stop shopping and payment but does not yet track deliveries, retain records of past orders or make it simple for buyers to compare competing products.
Grainger says that thousands of companies have registered since Orderzone.com went on line in mid-May but declined to release early revenue figures. Mr. Bielinski said that a surprising number of big customers had signed on, apparently seeking experience with what could be a step toward a full-service marketplace.
But the most intriguing piece of Grainger's E-commerce strategy has been its collaboration with many of the newcomers and large software companies like SAP, whose products and goals could make Grainger's life more difficult. Grainger has signed alliances aimed at insuring that as many software programs and Internet portals as possible link to its own site and to Orderzone.com.
IT is a risky approach. The other players may make it easy for Grainger customers to move to other suppliers or, by joining orders from many customers at a portal like MRO.com, pressure Grainger to cut prices. But Grainger has done more than sign on as a supplier; it has also taken stakes in several other concerns, including Project Software and Commerce One.
"Grainger is very Internet savvy," said Norman E. Drapeau Jr., the president and chief executive officer of Project Software. "They understand that some piece of their business may be cannibalized."
As Grainger sees it, though, the explosion in pathways to its doorway will give it more chances to exploit its brand name and distribution system.
"I have a real tough time with the word 'competitor' in the digital marketplace," Mr. Bielinski said. "There is so much room for cooperation. The potential payoff is huge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. W. Grainger's distribution center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., has widgets of every kind. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GWW (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GRAINGER, W W, INC WW GRAINGER INC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAINGER, W W, INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (84%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



472 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 62; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Drugstores Scramble to Find Choice Corners in Cyberspace

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST; Lisa Prevost is a Connecticut writer who contributes to The New York Times and The Boston Globe.

 BODY:
NOW that the big pharmacy chains seem to have built facing drugstores at every intersection in America, the competition to sell aspirin, shampoo and antibiotics is moving onto the Internet just as aggressively.
The idea has a lot going for it. From a practical standpoint, drugstore products are easy to ship. A pile of toiletries fits neatly in a relatively small package. And even the fruitiest of shampoos are nonperishable. 
 More important to customers, on-line pharmacies can make it easier than ever to refill a prescription or shop around for the best deal in over-the-counter remedies. At some sites, detailed information about individual prescriptions and thousands of health care products is only a click or two away.
The potential for persuading on-line customers to add a host of other, more profitable items to their prescription orders is so great that the market has grown crowded since the beginning of the year. Drugstore.com grabbed the media spotlight early as a result of its 40 percent backing by the on-line bookseller Amazon.com About the same time, Planetrx.com and Soma.com opened, sending the chain drugstores scrambling to bring their Web sites up to speed.
But to get from here to there, retailers have discovered they need the blessing of the pharmacy benefit managers, the companies that manage prescription benefits for health insurance plans. That blessing is slow in coming.
Pharmacy benefit managers arrange networks of pharmacies to fill prescriptions for the plans they manage and then reimburse the stores for prescription costs. Patients are more likely to shop at network pharmacies, where they can be sure their co-payments will be honored. So it behooves all pharmacies, on line and otherwise, to maintain contracts with benefit managers.
On-line pharmacies are not being warmly received in these networks because of a turf war over mail-order prescriptions. The largest pharmacy benefit managers, Merck-Medico Managed Care, Express Scripts and PCS Health Systems, have long held exclusive contracts with their clients for 90-day mail-order business. Reluctant to give ground to new competitors, some are aggressively moving ahead with their own on-line pharmacies.
If the fierce battle between Amazon.com and Barnesandnoble.com over the comparatively paltry $15 billion book market is any indicator of what is ahead, the on-line drugstore wars should be fierce. The pharmacy benefit managers' influence has already reshaped an industry that began early this year as a few high-profile on-line pharmacy upstarts and is now a complex array of independent ventures and strategic partnerships.
"Right now there's a lot of push and shove," said Evie Black Dykema, an E-commerce analyst for Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. "Everyone's staking out their ground."
The territory is huge. According to the National Association of Chain Drugstores, the retail drugstore industry is a $153.6 billion market. Chains account for about 60 percent of prescription drug sales, which total about $103 billion and are growing by about 10 percent a year, leading the president of Drugstore.com, Peter Neupert, to observe gleefully, "That's $10 billion in revenue just in new prescriptions every year."
Drugstore.com and Soma.com figured out quickly that they would need powerful allies to gain access to that revenue. One week, Mr. Neupert was boasting of the superiority of his on-line store to real drugstores, and the next he was announcing a partnership with the Rite Aid chain.
That deal gave Drugstore.com access to the 50 million customers served by PCS of Scottsdale, Ariz., the second-largest pharmacy benefit manager and a subsidiary of the Rite Aid Corporation, based in Camp Hill, Pa. Though Drugstore.com will remain an independent pharmacy, Rite Aid and PCS will have access to its site to make Internet sales.
Just before that deal was announced in June, the CVS Corporation said that it was acquiring Soma.com for $30 million. As the country's largest drugstore chain, CVS, based in Woonsocket, R.I., has 55 million prescription customers and about 9,000 insurance providers.
"We see the Internet as a logical, natural extension of our focus on convenience and value," said Larry Zigerelli, the executive vice president for corporate development at CVS. "Our Internet customers may choose to have their prescriptions mailed, or in the case of acute prescriptions, to pick them up in-store."
While Mr. Zigerelli said that most pharmacy benefit managers had already worked out a mail option with CVS, some of the largest are holding out, choosing instead to carve out their own presence on line. Just last month, Express Scripts announced that it was transferring its fledgling E-commerce subsidiary, Yourpharmacy.com, to Planetrx Inc., which will become the exclusive on-line pharmacy for Express Scripts' 36 million members. In return, Planetrx will pay the company more than $11 million a year in fees.
Express Scripts will continue to handle 90-day mail-order prescriptions, about 10 percent of its business, said Barrett Toan, the company's president and chief executive. But Planetrx will fill 30-day mail-order prescriptions for Express Scripts customers and try to sell them health and beauty products at the same time.
Express Scripts customers who shop at other on-line pharmacies will have to pay full price if they want their prescriptions shipped. However, co-payments will be honored when they order prescriptions at a chain drugstore Web site, like CVS.com, and pick them up at a store. That retail store business, after all, is the lifeblood of the pharmacy benefit managers.
"Certain products like antibiotics will always be the exclusive domain of the retail pharmacy," Mr. Toan said. "We don't see that changing."
T he chains agree with that perspective but carry it one step further, arguing that their contracts with benefit managers extend to their on-line operations regardless of whether the prescriptions they fill are picked up at the store or shipped. "The 90-day mail-order prescription -- that is business the P.B.M.'s have today and that will remain," Mr. Zigerelli said. "The 30-day, 60-day, or sometimes even 20-day prescription -- that is business that we fill. We fully expect that all of our on-line customers will be able to receive their prescriptions by mail if they choose."
No one is sure how this will play out. But David Restrepo, a health analyst at Jupiter Communications in New York, speculated that the pharmacy-benefit managers would have to reach a compromise. Such an awareness is hinted at in the contract between Drugstore.com and PCS, he noted. While Drugstore.com will be the exclusive on-line vehicle for mail-order prescriptions for PCS, the contract leaves the way open for PCS to fill 30-day prescriptions for retailers who set up shop on the Internet.
As for whether on-line pharmacies will supplant the corner drugstore, the National Association of Chain Drugstores is reserving comment. "There's no good way to determine their impact yet," said Phillip Schneider, the director of public affairs for the association.
But Mr. Zigerelli does not expect much pain at CVS. He expects on-line pharmacy sales to account for no more than 10 percent of the industry's revenue over the next decade. And he said he expected the Internet to open new territory for CVS stores west of the Mississippi.
Though many people will begin to buy their prescriptions and toiletries without going near their neighborhood pharmacy, partnerships between on-line and retail stores will continue to be crucial for reasons that have nothing to do with co-payments. No matter how many choices they have on line, some customers still will want to talk to a pharmacist in person.
"The level of personal interaction is a lot more important in this category than in, say, books and CD's," said Erik Brynjolfsson, the co-director of the program on electronic commerce and marketing at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "The on-line approach can bring in some cost-effectiveness, but what they lack is face-to-face human interaction."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: . . . across from this CVS store has hit the Internet with full force, producing a bevy of pharmacy sites. The brick-and-mortar competition that put this Duane Reade drugstore in Manhattan . . . (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (82%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (59%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (82%); PLANETRX.COM INC (55%); PCS HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (52%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGSTORES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (93%); PHARMACIES (93%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); 

PERSON: PREVOST, LISA JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



473 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 3; Column 3; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: 3 Brothers, 4 Months, 1 Fortune In an Early Success in Germany

BYLINE: By SALLY McGRANE 

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
SITTING at a makeshift confer ence table a white table top supported by cardboard boxes -- in the Spartan Berlin headquarters of Ebay Germany, the 26-year-old chief executive, Oliver Samwer, can barely contain his excitement as he outlines his company's spectacular and, in Germany right now, singular success story.
It doesn't take long: Last September, he and his 24-year-old brother, Alexander, finished their respective university degrees and packed their bags to join their brother, Marc, 28, as interns in Silicon Valley. There they came across Ebay, the on-line auction site, and thought they saw a niche for a similar site in Germany. 
 The brothers talked it over at Christmas, quit their internships and returned to Germany in January to start their own auction site on the Ebay model. They moved from their hometown of Cologne to Berlin, recruited three college friends (their 25-year-old chief financial officer, Karel Doerner, who worked at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company for two months, was the only founder with corporate job experience) and founded Alando.de in February. On March 1, the site went on line. Goldman, Sachs called on May 17 to say that Ebay was interested. Ebay's founder, Pierre Omidyar, flew to Berlin on May 21, and on May 30 -- less than a hundred days after founding the company -- the six 20-somethings sold Alando.de to Ebay for $43 million.
Not surprisingly, the story has inspired a flock of other young German entrepreneurs to undertake E-based start-up companies. But it remains an exception. "Right now, E-commerce is taking place in Germany," said Alexander Artope, a co-author of the European Communication Council's report on the Internet economy. "But other than auctions, nothing's happening."
Germany has more Web users than either Britain or France; it has one of the best telecommunications infrastructures in the world and is awaiting the drop in Internet toll charges that should follow the recent deregulation of its telephone industry. But industry insiders put Germany anywhere from eight months to five years behind the United States in E-commerce development.
Consumer reluctance to give out financial information over the Internet and unfamiliarity with credit card payment -- 80 percent of Germans do not have credit cards -- present significant barriers to Web browsing and buying. Add to this the conservative business practices of the traditional media publishing corporations that dominate Internet business in Germany (only one of the top 10 content providers offers Internet services exclusively, according to the New Media Report, based in Munich), and it is no surprise that in Germany, E-commerce has had a slow start.
There has also been a shortage of the kind of hard-charging, baby-faced, overnight millionaires that have produced the dot-com mania fueling start-ups across America. Referring to Oliver Samwer and his colleagues, Scott Barnum, Ebay's international general manager and vice president, said: "In the German Internet-commerce world, these guys are very atypical. But they represent a new group of entrepreneurs that is trying to take hold. They are successful role models for entrepreneurs, and there haven't been that many success stories."
That may be why this success story has entranced Germans. The young men have become German media darlings, and with scores of magazine articles and more than 15 television appearances under their belts, they have set off a wave of young start-ups. In the auction world alone, more than a hundred sites have sprung up since Alando, now called Ebay Germany. The founders offer consulting to fledgling entrepreneurships and have started Silicon City, a social networking group.
"Alando helped raise the attention for E-commerce ventures on a large scale" in Germany, said Christian Bachem, an on-line strategy consultant based in Berlin. But, he added, Alando's copycat model "might be a viable trend in German E-commerce, but it does not at all represent the German E-commerce market."
Oliver Samwer is enthusiastic about the nascent entrepreneurial community he has helped to create, saying that his own team would have welcomed the mentoring that it regularly dispenses to young start-ups. But he looks back with nostalgia at the skin-of-their-teeth route that the founders of Alando took, which included offering up their own childhood model trains at a fraction of their value to get the site going. "Mom," he said, "is still really sad about the trains."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Got rich quick: the founders of a German auction site, including brothers Alexander, Oliver and Marc Samwer, front to back on the right. (Ebay Inc.)
 
Drawing (Illustrations by Nannette Finkel Rebach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EBAY EBAY INC (95%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EBAY

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WRITERS (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); STARTUPS (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); DEREGULATION (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); RETAILERS (64%); CONSERVATISM (63%); PUBLISHING (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: MCGRANE, SALLY; SAMWER, OLIVER; SAMWER, ALEXANDER; SAMWER, MARC PIERRE OMIDYAR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



474 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Yemenis' Khat Habit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Khat-Chewing Yemen Told to Break Ancient Habit" (news article, Sept. 19): As a native of Yemen and as a doctor who has worked there, I am acutely aware of Yemen's suffering -- economically, socially and medically -- from this destructive habit. The effects are like those of amphetamines: mild euphoria, energy, increased communication, decreased appetite and sleep, followed by depressive symptoms in the evening. 
 While chewing khat, Yemenis also consume large quantities of cigarettes and tobacco, leading to an epidemic of cardiovascular diseases at younger ages than in the West. Perhaps the United States should support President Ali Abdullah Saleh's campaign against khat with more aid than what it now gives to Yemen, which amounts to 10 cents per Yemeni a year.
 
MOHAMED KHODR, M.D.
Winchester, Va., Sept. 19, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN; YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; KHAT (DRUG) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); TRENDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); DEPRESSION (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (53%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (53%); 

PERSON: KHODR, MOHAMED (DR)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



475 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Delinquent Debt Shows a Decrease

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
More Americans paid their credit card bills on time in the second quarter of 1999 and consumer-loan delinquencies hit a four-year low, the American Bankers Association said today.
The number of credit card accounts that were at least 30 days overdue decreased to 3.33 percent of all accounts from 3.58 percent in the first quarter. That compares with a peak of 3.72 percent at the end of 1996.
Based on the total dollar amount of outstanding credit card debt, delinquencies also fell to 4.10 percent from 4.44 percent in the first quarter.
"The favorable economy coupled with strong job growth has helped consumers make timely payments," the association's senior economist, Keith Leggett, said in a statement. "Savvy consumers reduced their debt burden by refinancing their mortgages and are using the additional money to pay their bills."
Mr. Leggett said banks, too, were being more careful about extending credit and trying hard to head off credit problems before they became acute. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); PERSONAL DEBT (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: KEITH LEGGETT (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



476 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Fliers may have missed it, but the nation's airlines have pledged to improve their customer service.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
BECAUSE concern about Hurricane Floyd crowded out much other news last week, few people appear to have noticed that the nation's airlines filed with the Transportation Department their pledges to improve customer service.
The "voluntary" pledges, which were actually adopted under Congressional threats to come up with improvements or else, are an outgrowth of growing customer dissatisfaction with the overall flight experience, dissatisfaction that boiled over after Detroit passengers were kept aboard planes for hours last January when a big snowstorm hit the city. 
 Now the airlines have agreed to tell passengers the lowest fare available for each flight; to notify customers of cancellations, delays and diversions;,to insure that all written complaints are responded to within 60 days, and to make every reasonable effort to provide food, water and restroom facilities for on-board passengers who are on the ground for an extended period.
Critics have said that some of the proposals, all of which are required to go into effect by Dec. 15, were already required by law or by custom. But some airlines have gone beyond that.
Delta Air Lines, for example, will telephone customers to notify them of flight cancellations when they are known at least two hours before departure. (The new pledges provide that airlines notify customers at the airport or aboard an affected airplane.) Northwest Airlines promised not to hold passengers on board an aircraft for more than one hour in the event of a flight delay. U S Airways plans a consumer advisory board to provide advice on the airline's performance.
UAL's United Airlines will deploy 600 high-technology baggage scanners at its busiest airports, and its Web site will list fares from other airlines. In case of a delay or overbooked flight, Alaska Airlines will offer, among other things, a kit containing a phone card, snack certificate and an offer of a choice of frequent-flier miles or a discount for future travel.
Still, none of the pledges addressed a big complaint of economy-class passengers: Since airlines continue to jam passengers into every available inch of space, why isn't at least one airline bold enough or prescient enough to adjust its seats to keep them from reclining into the lap of the person directly behind?
 
Airline Update
Air France is offering bargain fares to more than 80 European cities, including round-trip fares to Paris for $328 from New York, Newark and Boston; $388 from Washington; $408 from Atlanta and Chicago; $478 from San Francisco, and $528 from Los Angeles. Good for departures from Nov. 1 through March 31, 2000, tickets must be bought no later than Oct. 5. Restrictions apply.
Through midnight this Friday, British Airways has discount round-trip fares available for travel to London from Oct. 1 through Dec. 8. Examples: From nine East Coast gateways, including Boston, Newark and New York, $198 for departure on Wednesday, $300 for departure on Saturday. The corresponding fares for Chicago, Detroit, Houston, Dallas and Miami are $248 and $350, and from Denver, Phoenix, Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, $298 and $400. Restrictions apply.
Delta cut fares yesterday for travel in much of the United States and to some European destinations for travel between Oct. 5 and Dec. 15. The airline said fares would be as much as 35 percent less than 21-day advance purchase tickets, with even bigger discounts for booking on line. AMR's American Airlines and Continental Airlines matched the discounts.
On Nov. 2, Japan Airlines will begin flying between New York and Sao Paulo, Brazil, four times a week. Through Jan. 31., 2000, members of the airline's frequent-flier program will receive double miles, while first-class and business-class passengers who buy their tickets in the United States will also receive door-to-door limousine service.
Austrian Airlines made it official yesterday that it was joining the Star Alliance, effective next summer. The new member will give the alliance a formidable presence in central and Eastern Europe, to complement its presence throughout much of the rest of the world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US) DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (72%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



477 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The New Politics Of Inequality

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe is the director of the Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College and the author of "One Nation, After All."

DATELINE: CHESTNUT HILL, Mass.

 BODY:
If anything is a truism in American politics, it is that people do not care about income inequality. And as most such truisms eventually are, this one may be about to be contradicted.
The 1990's will be remembered as a time of Reaganism without Reagan. In an ironic confirmation of the conservative dictum that most consequences are unplanned, President Reagan's deliberate attempts to redistribute wealth to the rich now appear puny compared with what stock options and C.E.O. compensation have done under President Clinton. 
 Economists love to argue about numbers, but no study has disputed, because no study can dispute, that the boom of the past decade has widened an already large gap between rich and poor. The incomes of the best-off Americans have risen twice as fast as those of middle-class Americans, according to data from the Congressional Budget Office. The gap between the rich and the working class has grown even more. A study sponsored by the left-leaning Institute for Policy Studies in Washington showed that executives made 419 times more than factory workers in 1998, compared with 42 times more in 1980.
But up to this point, the wealth gap has not captured widespread public interest. That is partly because income inequality is still viewed as a cause of zealots out to redistribute the nation's wealth. Some leftists are indeed behind efforts to bring the issue to public consciousness; activists in Santa Monica, Calif., for example, have proposed a law mandating a "living wage" in their town. Most Americans are not prepared to follow them. For one thing, this economic boom, unlike the one in the 1980's, is increasing incomes across the board, if at differing rates. Yet candidates of both parties would be complacent if they dismissed the cause of income inequality as a fringe concern.
Luxury is a losing game. The fact that Americans hope to become rich does not mean that they admire the rich. Their acceptance of other people's financial good fortune all comes down to how people make their money. When I talked to middle-class Americans around the country in the mid-1990's, they did not like welfare recipients because they did not think that their income was properly earned. In a similar way, excessive C.E.O. salaries and stock options bothered the people I interviewed because such rewards have become disconnected from the efforts that go into earning them. Without the negative stereotype of welfare queens to stir up resentment, and with couples holding three or four jobs to scrape by, the idle rich who make themselves even richer may inspire increasing resentment.
Republicans may be identified with unfettered capitalism, but there are conservative strains in American politics -- one evolving from British Toryism (in its pre-Thatcher, landed-aristocracy incarnation) and the other rooted in Roman Catholicism -- that are identified with a distaste for the wealth gap.
In good conservative fashion, the Tories insisted that tolerating gross differences in income was a formula for social instability. It was the Tory Benjamin Disraeli who, in 1845, coined the phrase "two nations" to describe the impact industrial capitalism was having on his country.
Our Tory conservatives have belonged to both parties, and their names have generally been Roosevelt. Teddy, the Republican, attacked monopolies in ways not unfamiliar to European conservatives, and Franklin and Eleanor, the Democrats, spoke for the conscience of the nation. Today George W. Bush inherits the mantle of aristocratic conservatism. He finds himself uttering a word like "compassion" not generally found in his party's vocabulary, even if, given his record, his conviction is doubted. "The purpose of prosperity is to leave no one out, to leave no one behind," Mr. Bush said in announcing his candidacy.
The conservative who most speaks for economic justice, unfortunately, is Patrick Buchanan, who won the Republican primary in New Hampshire in 1996 with his attacks on Wall Street. Though his fellow Roman Catholics may find many of his other views highly offensive, they do understand the doctrine of a just wage: principles of economic justice have been at the center of Catholic social teachings for over a century. In a series of turn-of-the-century papal encyclicals, the Vatican accepted the legitimacy of labor unions and tried to develop a non-socialist justification for what would become the European welfare state.
In the United States, if it takes demagogy of the sort associated with Mr. Buchanan to verify that hard-working Americans may well feel a sense of injustice as they watch the building of ever more trophy homes for the stock-market rich, that is only because, with a few exceptions, other politicians have failed to take up the issue. One possible exception is another Catholic politician, Mayor Richard Riordan of Los Angeles, a Republican who supports pro-business policies but who nevertheless pays employees at his own restaurant a living wage and stresses society's obligation to help the poor.
But Democrats who think they have the issue of economic justice locked up by default should think again. The problem is that for the party's liberal wing, any focus on the plight of the working poor and lower middle class would have implications that would be difficult to accept. It would constitute an implicit confession that Democrats are paying less attention to the nonworking poor. The Democrats need to understand that majority sentiment in this country insists that people be eligible for help only when they demonstrate that they deserve help. No longer can Democrats listen to the message of liberal academics who believe it is morally wrong to use a world like "morality" in discussing the plight of the poor.
There is something that politicians of both parties can do about this issue: they can speak about it. On the subject of economic justice, a little rhetoric can go a long way. Under Bill Clinton, the Democrats moved away from welfare and toward helping the working poor and the middle class. Now Republicans might find that voters would like a privileged candidate courageous enough to shame the rich for their greed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Bierut)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FALN (ORGN); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE SANTA MONICA PLACE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (55%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FALN (ORGN); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (55%); INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARDONS; TERRORISM; EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE, DOCTRINE OF LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); TERRORISM (59%); FACTORY WORKERS (52%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: WALLISON, PETER J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



478 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: A. K. Haldenstein, 74, Broker And Devotee of Brownstones

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
Austin K. Haldenstein, a real estate broker whose enthusiasm for brownstones helped start New York City's town house revival, died on Monday at a nursing home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 74.
Mr. Haldenstein also helped develop the ethics segment of the curriculum at New York University's Real Estate Institute and was an adjunct professor there. But his friends and colleagues remember him as a man with another mission. 
 Opening his own office in the late 1960's, he could not believe that so many of his city's brownstones, full of original details (and tenants), were unloved, cut up or derelict -- and practically unsalable, especially on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn.
"It's hard to believe now, but especially the Upper West Side from 86th to 96th, from Central Park West to Amsterdam, was pretty scary," said Elizabeth Dean, now a vice president at Stribling Associates and one of a group of the city's real estate agents who came to regard Mr. Haldenstein as a mentor. "Austin had fabulous faith in the area," she said.
Until the late 1970's, that stretch was the object of a controversial urban renewal project, pending since the late 1950's, that included plans to demolish dozens of brownstones and to build high-rise housing projects.
Mr. Haldenstein joined other town house devotees in speaking out against city plans to demolish the houses, some of which have been restored and are now selling for more than $2 million each. In the end, the city agreed to rehabilitate many of the old houses, and when it did build new housing, to keep it low-rise on the side streets.
He helped organize brownstone seminars on the Upper West Side and in Greenwich Village and Brooklyn Heights, lecturing potential homeowners on how to finance and maintain the historic houses.
He was also one of the first major Manhattan brokers to champion the concept of cooperative apartments for all economic levels. While there had been co-ops on Park and Fifth Avenue for decades, the movement had not caught on, said Melvin B. Bisgyer, a mortgage broker who often worked with Mr. Haldenstein.
"I remember in the late 60's when Austin said he was going to open an office to sell co-ops, and I said, 'You're crazy,' " Mr. Bisgyer, now retired in Oregon, recalled. Asked how much he was planning on investing in the new venture, Mr. Haldenstein replied, "About $20,000."
"I told him: 'I got a better idea: why don't we just go out to the track, gamble and sit in the sun; it'll be more fun to lose the money that way,' " Mr. Bisgyer said. "Well, every year after that, he'd take me out to a real, real expensive restaurant and kind of nicely rub it in." He paused, then said. "Austin became very successful."
At one time, Mr. Haldenstein had three offices, on the East Side and the West Side and in Greenwich Village; his company was bought out by Douglas Elliman in 1987. From 1990 to 1992, he was director of West Side sales for Ambrose-Mar Elia, another real estate concern, and in 1993, he joined Vandenberg Real Estate as the senior vice president and "senior statesman," in the words of Dexter Guerrieri, Vandenberg's president.
Mr. Guerrieri nicknamed Mr. Haldenstein "Columbo," not only because of the way he dressed, his socks seldom matching and his shirt always seeming to have escaped his trousers, but also because "he would appear to be distracted and then came up with these insightful comments." Sometimes, the disarray was disarming; he would sometimes show up on the tennis court in the guise of a disheveled old man -- and then win the tournament.
Mr. Haldenstein had been a fine tennis player since he was a student at Horace Mann High School in New York. Even after he graduated from the University of Miami, he continued to play with colleagues.
He is survived by a daughter, Susan Federspiel; a son, Kenneth Haldenstein, and two grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Austin K. Haldenstein (The New York Times, 1985)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CURRICULA (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ETHICS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (61%); 

PERSON: HALDENSTEIN, AUSTIN K; ROZHON, TRACIE AUSTIN K HALDENSTEIN (96%); MELVIN B BISGYER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



479 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Words of Clinton: 'Three Resolutions for the New Millennium'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's address yesterday to the United Nations General Assembly, as recorded by The New York Times:
For all our intellectual and material advances, the 20th century has been deeply scarred by enduring human failures, by greed and lust for power, by hot-blooded hatreds and stone-cold hearts. 
 At century's end, modern developments magnify greatly the dangers of these timeless flaws. Powerful forces still resist reasonable efforts to put a human face on the global economy, to lift the poor, to heal the earth's environment. Primitive claims of racial, ethnic or religious superiority, when married to advanced weaponry and terrorism, threaten to destroy the greatest potential for human development in history, even as they make a wasteland of the soul.
Therefore we look to the future with hope but with unanswered questions:
In the new millennium, will nations be divided by ethnic and religious conflicts? Will the nation-state itself be imperiled by them or by terrorism? . . .
Will we be free of the fear of weapons of mass destruction or forced to teach our grandchildren how to survive a nuclear, chemical or biological attack? Will globalism bring shared prosperity, or make the desperate of the world even more desperate? . . .
The truth is that the 20th century's amazing progress has not resolved these questions. But it has given us the tools to make the answers come out right, the knowledge, the resources, the institutions. . . . With that in mind, I offer three resolutions for the new millennium.
First, let us resolve to wage an unrelenting battle against poverty and for shared prosperity, so that no part of humanity is left behind in the global economy.
Globalism is not inherently divisive. While infant mortality in developing countries has been cut nearly in half since 1970, life expectancy has increased by 10 years. According to the U.N.'s Human Development Index, measuring a decent standard of living, a good education, a long and healthy life, the gap between rich and poor countries on this measure has actually declined.
Open trade and new technologies have been engines of this progress. . . . But this promising future is far from inevitable. We are still squandering the potential of far too many: 1.3 billion people still live on less than a dollar a day. More than half the population in many countries have no access to safe water. . . .
We must refuse to accept a future in which one part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy while the other lives at the knife edge of survival.
What must we do? Well, we can start by remembering that open markets advance the blessings and breakthroughs we want to spread.
That's why we in the United States have worked to keep our markets open during the recent global financial crisis, though it has brought us record trade deficits.
It is why we want to launch a new global trade round when the W.T.O. World Trade Organization meets in Seattle this fall, why we are working to build a trading system that strengthens the well-being of workers and consumers, protects the environment and makes competition a race to the top, not the bottom. . . .
The challenge and opportunity for developing countries is to skip the cost of the industrial age by using technologies that improve the economy and the environment at the same time.
Finally, to win the fight against poverty we must improve health care for all people. Over the next 10 years in Africa, AIDS is expected to kill more people and orphan more children than all the wars of the 20th century combined. Each year diseases like malaria, tuberculosis, pneumonia, leave millions of children without parents, millions of parents without children.
Yet for all these diseases vaccine research is advancing too slowly, in part because the potential customers in need are too poor. Only 2 percent of all global biomedical research is devoted to the major killers in the developing world. No country can break poverty's bonds if its people are disabled by disease and its government overwhelmed by the needs of the ill. . . .
The second resolution I hope we will make today is to strengthen the capacity of the international community to prevent and, whenever possible, to stop outbreaks of mass killing and displacement.
This requires, as we all know, shared responsibility, like the one West African nations accepted when they acted to restore peace in Sierra Leone, the one 19 democracies in NATO embraced to stop ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Kosovo, the one Asian and Pacific nations have now assumed in East Timor, with the strong support from the entire United Nations, including the United States. . . .
Finally, as we enter this new era, let our third resolution be to protect our children against the possibility that nuclear, chemical and biological weapons will ever be used again. The last millennium has seen constant advances in the destructive power of weaponry. In the coming millennium this trend can continue. Or if we choose, we can reverse it with global standards, universally respected. . . .
We must work to deny weapons of mass destruction to those who would use them. For almost a decade, nations have stood together to keep the Iraqi regime from threatening its people and the world with such weapons. Despite all the obstacles Saddam Hussein has placed in our path, we must continue to ease the suffering of the people of Iraq. At the same time, we cannot allow the Government of Iraq to flout 40, and I say 40, successive U.N. Security Council resolutions and to rebuild his arsenal. . . .
There are many other challenges. . . . In meeting them, the United Nations is indispensable. It is precisely because we are committed to the U.N. that we have worked hard to support the management -- effective management -- of this body.
But the United States also has a responsibility to equip the U.N. with the resources it needs to be effective. As I think most of you know, I have strongly supported the United States meeting all its financial obligations to the United Nations and I will continue to do so. We will do our very best to succeed this year. . . .
Not long ago I went to a refugee camp in Macedonia. The people I met there, children and adults alike, had suffered horrible, horrible abuses. But they had never given up hope because they believe that there is an international community that stood for their dignity and their freedom. I want to make sure that 20 or 50 or 100 years from now, people everywhere will still believe that about our United Nations. . . . 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); TERRORISM (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); CHILDREN (74%); POLITICS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (63%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



480 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Hopes to Find A Compromise For Iraq Fade At the U.N.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Hopes faded today that the Security Council could agree this week on a new approach to Iraq, with the United States and Russia still far apart on how to monitor Iraqi weapons programs and on when -- or if -- to begin lifting sanctions.
American and British officials said today that meetings would continue this week to explore compromises on outstanding issues like how to measure Iraqi cooperation and how much control the United Nations would have over money Iraq would earn if sanctions were suspended. 
 But a high-level meeting tentatively planned for Friday is not likely to be held, diplomats said. The Foreign Ministers of the permanent Council members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- are all in New York this week for the General Assembly's annual debate.
Iraq has repeatedly said it would not consider any plan that did not lift sanctions. And the only surveillance the Iraqis are likely to accept would be nonintrusive monitoring without the short-notice or challenge-type inspections that characterized the work of the weapons-monitoring program by a United Nations Special Commission that was set up after the Persian Gulf war.
The inspections were to have been the key to lifting sanctions imposed on Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
There have been no United Nations inspections in Iraq since last December, when inspectors were withdrawn in advance of punitive air strikes by Britain and the United States, and President Saddam Hussein barred them from returning. But even before that, months of Iraqi interference had made the work of the Special Commission, which had been disarming Iraq since 1991, largely ineffective.
Without inspectors in Iraq, it is difficult if not impossible to know whether Mr. Hussein has renewed prohibited weapons programs.
The French say that this is reason enough to end the stalling over a new inspection system. Diplomats said today that France had suggested the early adoption of a "statement of principles" on Iraq, as an interim measure.
An American official said today that the stalemate on Iraq had been discussed by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia over dinner on Monday. The official said Ms. Albright had emphasized that the United States opposes any changes in sanctions rules until the Iraqis demonstrate compliance with arms inspections.
In his speech to the General Assembly, Mr. Ivanov mentioned the Iraqi impasse as one of the causes of a more general decline in the authority of the Council.
Russia is prepared to ease sanctions without waiting for progress in inspections and indeed would use a suspension of the embargo as an incentive to the Iraqis to comply with inspectors. The Russians contend that there may be nothing left to find in Iraq and that to make successful inspections the trigger for sanctions is unrealistic.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



481 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Survey Details Problems Of Minorities and Credit

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Even in the current flush economic times, with home ownership rates reaching record highs, a disproportionately large number of minorities, chiefly blacks, have poor credit ratings, according to a study released today.
The report, issued by Freddie Mac, indicated that 36 percent of black adults aged 20 to 40, and 51 percent of Hispanic consumers have good credit histories, compared with 61 percent of whites. In addition, the report noted that 48 percent of blacks and 34 percent of Hispanic consumers have poor credit records, compared with only 27 percent of whites. 
 The study, which consisted of a survey of 12,000 consumers with household incomes of less than $75,000, a group for whom securing and maintaining credit is most critical, indicated that the disparity in credit ratings persisted across all income spectrums. Black and Hispanic consumers tend to have worse credit ratings than their white counterparts, whether they live in households earning less than $25,000 or in homes with earnings between $65,000 and $75,000.
The survey defined consumers with "bad" credit records as those who have been either 90 days late on a bill payment in the last two years; have been 30 days late on a payment more than once during the last two years; have a record of delinquent liens, or have filed for bankruptcy.
The study is part of an initiative by Freddie Mac to help develop strategies to increase the number of minorities who own their own homes. Though home ownership rates are at record levels, racial disparities remain firmly in place. Currently 72 percent of white adults own their own residence, compared with 46 percent of blacks.
Lenders like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, both of which deal in the secondary market, have been saying that the market for white homeowners is becoming saturated and that for continued growth to occur, banks and savings and loans must figure out how to increase lending to minorities, many of whom often have poorer credit histories.
"Increasing the pool of qualified minority home buyers will play an important role in future expansion of the home mortgage industry," said Leland C. Brendsel, chairman and chief executive of Freddie Mac. "This initiative is not only good for our nation, but makes good business sense."
Over the last few years, Freddie Mac's sibling, Fannie Mae, has moved aggressively to persuade lenders to increase the number of mortgages that are extended to minorities, underwriting $6 billion in loans using experimental means to assess risk during the last five years, according to Ann Logan, Fannie Mae's executive vice president for single-family business.
To date, Freddie Mac has been slower in moving to help lenders raise their mortgage activity among minorities. Today's release of its study and its announcement that it will grant $2 million to six historically black colleges to develop programs to teach black consumers the importance of maintaining a good credit rating indicate that Freddie Mac is beginning to move more assertively into this area.
While the study points out the stark differences in credit ratings between whites and the black and Hispanic consumers, it is less clear why the disparity exists. For example, all groups studied say they have been unable to adhere to a relatively simple set of financial behaviors such as controlling spending, planning for the future and saving money.
The study did find disparities between whites and blacks and Hispanic consumers when it came to such events as a significant involuntary drop in income, a large medical expense, a big tax or legal problem or an extended period of unemployment that could cause someone to fall behind on bill payments.
But with the exception of unemployment, the disparities were not large. For example, 30 percent of blacks surveyed reported an involuntary reduction in income during the last two years. But so did 24 percent of Hispanic respondents and 20 percent of the whites. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); FNM (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; DISCRIMINATION; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT REAL ESTATE (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); FAMILY COMPANIES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; BRENDSEL, LELAND C

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



482 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief Defends U.S. Aid to Russia, but Calls for Safeguards

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers today vigorously defended the Clinton Administration's policy of supporting aid to Russia, but warned that the Russian central bank had to comply with safeguards to maintain American backing for assistance.
The conditions are not new. But taken together in the climate of a running Federal inquiry into allegations of Russian money laundering, they represent a new and hardening tone by an Administration official who, in July 1998, was the chief American architect of a multibillion-dollar loan to Russia from the International Monetary Fund to prop up the ruble. Within a month, however, President Boris N. Yeltsin dismissed his team of reformers and devalued the ruble. 
 Mr. Summers was testifying before a House Banking Committee hearing on the investigation into reports of laundering billions of dollars. He sought to blunt Congressional criticism that the Administration had done too little to combat Russian corruption and should cut off international economic support to Russia.
"To quarantine, contain or write off Russia as too corrupt would ill serve our national security," Mr. Summers said, raising the risk that the United States and the West would be branded as scapegoats for Russia's failures.
Under an agreement signed in July, Russia is eligible for $4.5 billion in loans in the next 18 months. The first $640 million was released in July, and approval of an installment of roughly the same size hinges on the outcome of an external audit of the central bank and some affiliates. Both installments are intended to pay down previous loans and do not enter the Russian banking system.
 Although he said there was no evidence that any I.M.F. money had been diverted through laundering, Mr. Summers added that the Administration was insisting that the Central Bank strengthen how it managed foreign-currency reserves and submit to regular external audits that would be made public. A review of the bank's offshore operations is also being awaited.
As Congress opens a series of inquiries into corruption and money laundering, including at least $4.2 billion diverted through the Bank of New York in the last 18 months, the investigation is likely to take many twists and turns. Investigators are examining bank transactions that involve Mr. Yeltsin's inner circle.
Facing his first major test since he succeeded Robert E. Rubin, Mr. Summers said the Treasury and Justice Departments would announce on Thursday the Administration's strategy to combat money laundering. The plan would tighten bank regulations and offer legislation to apply money-laundering laws to foreign officials and arms traffickers.
The Administration is trying to stay in front of Congress on the fast-breaking inquiry. James A. Leach, the Iowa Republican who leads the Banking Committee, introduced legislation today to require United States banks to pay closer attention to their foreign customers and impose new restrictions on their dealings with offshore banks.
Many Democrats quickly threw their support behind the legislation. Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said he would introduce a companion bill in the Senate.
The issue has taken on sharply partisan overtones. Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, last week called the Administration's Russia policy "the biggest foreign policy failure since Vietnam."
Democrats are trying to protect the Administration, especially Vice President Al Gore, who has been an influential voice in Russia policy.
But the hearing today was surprisingly devoid of drama. About 15 of the 60 panel members were present at any given time during testimony.
Republicans threw few pointed questions at Mr. Summers. When Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California, asked why Mr. Summers and other senior Treasury officials agreed to the $4.5 billion I.M.F. loan this summer, even though they had known of the Federal inquiry since April, Mr. Summers said that the reports only reinforced changes that the fund had instituted in its lending practices to Russia after the ruble collapsed in August 1998.
Mr. Summers's refrain throughout his testimony was that the Administration had faced a set of admittedly bad choices in dealing with Russia as it evolved from a Communist dictatorship afflicted with corrupt officials to a free-market economy governed by the rule of law.
Although the results have not been ideal, he said, the pessimistic predictions that Russia would collapse under hyperinflation, political chaos and civil unrest have not come true. Moreover, Russia has dismantled more than 1,500 nuclear warheads, slashed its military spending and offered new, if still somewhat limited, personal freedoms to ordinary citizens, he said.
But Mr. Summers also underscored that the United States and the West could be of only limited help in Moscow's painful economic and political transformation. "We cannot want successful market reform in Russia more than Russia's Government and its people do," he said.
Other witnesses warned that ordinary Russians were increasingly cynical toward their Government and an economy dominated by oligarchs, resentment that is spilling over to the United States.
A former Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey, said, "We are seen, in short, by average Russians as supporting the system and the individuals who are exploiting them."
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (74%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY LAUNDERING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEVALUATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AUDITS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



483 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Nasdaq,Once Hot for a Public Issue, Now Heading Private

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
JUST a few months ago, the buzz among the Nasdaq market's members and advisers was I.P.O. -- an initial public offering of Nasdaq shares that would transform the market where some of America's hottest technology stocks are traded.
But lately, the talk has shifted. Now, the emphasis is on a private placement, an arrangement that would allow the National Association of Securities Dealers, Nasdaq's owner, to sell a minority part of its stake privately to substantial outsiders, including Wall Street firms and even technology giants like Microsoft and Intel. 
 For the N.A.S.D. leadership at least, a private placement would be an interim step toward the goal of a public offering of Nasdaq shares. But the placement, expected to be on the agenda for discussion when the Nasdaq board meets in two weeks, raises two serious questions for the association and its chief executive, Frank G. Zarb.
Can Mr. Zarb attract the strong investors he needs? And can he do so without alienating the small brokerage firms, which may feel threatened if their giant rivals become the dominant investors in the new Nasdaq market?
On the first issue, early signs are encouraging. A Wall Street executive who has been briefed on the association's plans said that major investment banks have already been approached about the possibility of taking a minority stake in the Nasdaq market, and have been "impressed by how forward-looking this really is."
Moreover, he confirmed that there were plans to offer some of those shares to certain Nasdaq-listed companies like Microsoft and Intel. "By bringing in the leading listed companies, there is a much higher likelihood that those and other companies like them would remain listed on the Nasdaq system," he said.
That should not come as a surprise, several market executives said privately. In the fine print of a news release that the N.A.S.D. issued in July, one item on a list of next steps was "move toward a possible private placement to key participants," including companies whose shares are listed on Nasdaq and technology partners.
But as for the second question, Mr. Zarb obviously still faces a delicate balancing act. The association's leadership still hopes that it can eventually spin off Nasdaq as a publicly traded company, with a private placement as a sort of halfway house on the road to public ownership sometime in the future, perhaps by the end of next year.
A private stock sale would generate cash to help finance the association's regulatory arm, which would remain under the control of the parent group. And, advocates say, a private sale might inject healthy profit motives into an organization that has sometimes been hamstrung by competing interests.
Private placements have been done by several foreign stock exchanges that subsequently became publicly traded companies, according to Benn Steil, a senior fellow in foreign economic policy at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. "But the key to its effectiveness is to make sure that the shareholder base is as diverse as possible," he said.
If powerful Nasdaq companies like Microsoft and Intel are being invited to participate in the private placement, along with giant Wall Street firms and active Nasdaq market makers, that could be a very healthy development, Mr. Steil added.
"If Microsoft only owns 1 percent of Nasdaq, then their ambition will be to maximize the value of those shares, whereas if all the shares are given to members, that would not be the case," he said.
On the other hand, he said, if N.A.S.D. members are able to limit the private placement to themselves -- or if no more than a minority stake is ever sold to outsiders -- it would probably have little effect on Nasdaq's ability to confront the competition it now faces from new the stock trading services called electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s.
In the last year, Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange have explored the possibility of changing their ownership structure so that they can better compete with these new rivals for America's stock-trading business.
Both markets are, in effect, owned by their members. But while the Big Board's members own the exchange directly through their ownership of seats, association members have only an indirect stake in the Nasdaq market, John C. Coffee Jr., a securities law professor at Columbia University, noted.
The Nasdaq market, created in 1969, is already structured as a for-profit company with shares of stock outstanding. But all of those shares are owned by the N.A.S.D., a nonprofit association with a 33-member board representing roughly 5,500 member firms.
Because those members have competing and sometimes conflicting interests, the association's leadership has not been able to respond quickly enough to new competitors in new technologies, Mr. Coffee said.
"What brought all this about was the inability of the N.A.S.D. leadership to get the small broker-dealers to buy into their vision," he added.
In theory, the association's board could sell a minority stake to outside investors without a full membership vote, since the association would still retain control of Nasdaq.
But Mr. Zarb and his staff are very sensitive to the views of the organization's smaller members, according to the executive who has been briefed on the association's plans. "I don't think they are going to go too far down the road without trying to make sure that they have support from the membership," he said.
The next test will come at the association's board meeting Oct. 7, when the organization continues its discussions about the future of Nasdaq. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ STOCK MARKET; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ STOCK MARKET; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; ZARB, FRANK G FRANK G ZARB (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



484 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1916 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Lab May Do Studies Of Bioterrorism

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: PLUM ISLAND, N.Y.

 BODY:
Alarmed at what the Clinton Administration views as the growing threat of biological terrorism to America's food supply, the Agriculture Department is seeking money to turn the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, one mile off Long Island, into a top security laboratory where some of the most dangerous diseases known to man or beast can be studied.
The Agriculture Department already operates here at Plum Island, just across Gardiners Bay from the wealthy Hamptons, a laboratory where such dreaded foreign animal diseases as foot-and-mouth and African swine fever are examined. But the department is seeking $75 million this year and $140 million over the next two years to upgrade the center to handle even more dangerous animal diseases that can affect humans. 
 While there are four civilian and military laboratories in America equipped to study such diseases -- technically known as Biosafety Level Four facilities -- their work is focused on germs that primarily affect humans, not domestic animals or plants.
Officials say the proposed expansion and upgrading of Plum Island is part of a new effort by the Clinton Administration to deter terrorists who might spread germs to destroy American crops or livestock for political purposes or financial gain, a threat they now see as equal to that of terrorist attacks aimed at people.
"Given the contribution of crop and animal exports to the nation's prosperity, we must do far more to protect our plant and animal resources," said Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican and co-author of legislation in 1991 and 1996 that provided money to bolster defenses against unconventional terrorism and stop the proliferation of such weapons.
"This is not about food per se; Americans would not go hungry if we were attacked," said Floyd P. Horn, the administrator of the Agricultural Research Service, who helped persuade the Administration to include his agency in January in its counter-terrorism plans and programs. "But such an attack, or even a credible threat, would severely disrupt America's economic and social infrastructure for weeks, if not months or years."
Plum Island, which was once operated by the United States Army Chemical Corps, was designated as an animal-disease research center and transferred to the Agriculture Department in the early 1950's. It is already what scientists call an agricultural "Biosafety Level Three" center, which means that its containment areas, which hold germs dangerous to animals, have filtered air, sealed doors and negative air pressure that prevents germs from leaking out of the labs. Liquid waste is decontaminated.
All who enter the labs wear white lab coats and slippers. After leaving the containment areas, they are required to shower, shampoo their hair, scrub their nails and rinse their mouths, since lethal germs can live in human throats and infect animals up to two days later. To stop viruses or microbes from escaping to the mainland, no clothing or articles, even eyeglasses, are permitted to leave the labs without being soaked in disinfectant, said Dr. Alfonso Torres, the deputy administrator of the Agriculture Department's Veterinary Services Division and former director of the center, who conducted this reporter on a tour.
The building's perimeter is also tightly guarded. While Dr. Torres declined to discuss specific security measures, the shores of this pork-chop-shaped, 840-acre island are said by Federal officials to be monitored by electronic sensors and patrolled by boats and helicopters. Once a year, deer and other animals that have swum across to the island are killed in what island officials call a controlled hunt.
Despite an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease on the island in 1978, which led Plum scientists to abandon their holding areas for large animals, "there has never been a leak of a dangerous pathogens to the mainland from Plum Island," Dr. Torres said.
Moving to the next level of bio safety would require that scientists working with dangerous pathogens wear the protective decontaminated suits portrayed in movies like "Outbreak," and breathe only filtered air pumped into their hoods. Such precautions would allow scientists to work with even more dangerous animal pathogens that can affect humans, like the Hendra virus, which afflicts horses, and the Nipah pig virus, named for the Malaysian village in which it was first isolated this year. The virus has already killed more than 100 people.
"We intend to work closely with local officials and community groups to allay any concerns about safety," said Dr. Horn, who acknowledges that Plum Island has long been shrouded in mystery and plagued by what he and Dr. Torres call unfounded rumors and fears.
The 850-acre island was opened to news organizations only in 1992 in response to concerns about safety at the center. In 1995, the Department of Agriculture was fined $111,000 for illegally storing hazardous chemicals here. Since then, the agency has changed the contractor who operates the island, and there have been no violations.
The extent of the threat posed by agro-terrorism remains in dispute, even within the Clinton Administration. Some scientists and terrorism analysts argue that there is little reason to believe that terrorists would attack American agriculture or livestock.
But intelligence reports increasingly conclude that several countries, including Iraq, have developed germs to attack the food supplies of their adversaries. And senior American officials now believe that an outbreak of screwworm, a parasite that afflicts animals and people, was spread deliberately 14 years ago in Mexico less than 50 miles from the Texas border by workers who were employed in a screwworm eradication program and feared the loss of their jobs.
Although no one was ever arrested or charged in the incident, John Wyss, an Agriculture Department veteran of 25 years who supervised the project from Washington, said that the agency's investigations showed that the outbreak, given its nature and location, had to have been deliberate.
In recent interviews in Russia and Kazakhstan, former Soviet scientists also disclosed that they had developed weapons specifically aimed at crops and livestock. Sadigappar Mamadaliyev, the director of the Scientific Agricultural Research Institute, now in the Republic of Kazakhstan, said that in Soviet times, his was one of four centers dedicated to developing lethal germs as weapons against foreign crops and animals.
"The Soviets here concentrated on cow and sheep pox and blue tongue," he said. "We also cooperated closely with the All-Russian Institute of Animal Health in Vladimir, Russia, which worked on foot-and-mouth disease, and with the Pokrov Institute of Veterinary Virology, which specialized in African swine and horse fevers."
Dr. Mamadaliyev said he had more than 200 strains of dangerous animal pathogens at his institute, whose former scientific staff of 150 has shrunk by half from budget cuts and which is struggling to survive.
There were more than 10,000 Russians working on plant and animal pathogens in the former Soviet germ warfare program, said Ken Alibek, a senior germ researcher who defected to the United States in 1992 and who recently wrote a book, "BioHazard" (Random House), in which he describes the vast scale and depth of the Soviet Union's illegal germ offensive warfare program. Many of those scientists are now without jobs.
Several Russian scientists said that Iranians had recently visited their institutes, some offering huge salaries to work in Teheran and specifically expressing interest in research on animal and plant microbes.
Fueled by growing concern about the proliferation of such expertise and such dangerous germs, President Clinton ordered the Government last year to prepare defenses against germ and other unconventional attacks on the nation's plants and animals. In January, Dr. Horn recruited four former Pentagon intelligence analysts and terrorism experts to form the Agricultural Research Services' first unit to evaluate such threats. In April, the White House formally included the Agriculture Department in the group of agencies that meet regularly under National Security Council aegis to weigh plans to deter or respond to unconventional terrorism, a $2.8 billion effort.
At a public meeting in September in Washington, Dr. Horn discussed his concern about the nation's growing vulnerability to agro-terrorism, mentioning his desire to upgrade Plum Island and make it a centerpiece of the Government's effort to protect the nation's food supply.
Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, plans to hold hearings on agro-terrorism in October that will explore the Administration's plans for Plum Island.
Plum Island has 300 employees, 60 of whom are scientists, 70 buildings, many of them closed or deteriorating, independent power and water treatment plants, and a fleet of four boats. Dr. Torres calls the $14.5 million that the Government spends a year on Plum Island a "small investment" in the nation's food security given the $140 billion earned from commodities exports.
As disease after disease has been eradicated, Dr. Torres said, Washington has reduced the budget for veterinary services, which now stands at $116 million a year. Yet demand keeps growing. Agriculture scientists now conduct about 500 investigations of foreign animal diseases a year, more than half of them in birds brought back to the country by the millions of American travelers each year. "Our emergency response systems are becoming very, very thin," Dr. Torres said.
David R. Franz, a vice president of the Southern Research Institute and former director of the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, a Biosafety Level Four center, maintains that recent changes in the structure of American agriculture have heightened vulnerability. Increased trade and international travel, reduced genetic diversity in farm animals and the high concentration of animals in yards have increased the risk that highly infectious diseases will emerge and spread, "be they naturally or deliberately introduced, " Dr. Franz said.
The changing nature of terrorism also heightens the threat, says Thomas W. Frazier, president of a consortium of private companies called GenCon.
"There are now hundreds of attacks a year on agricultural targets in the United States, Canada and Britain as a form of violent protest by extremist environmental protection or animal rights groups," he said. Plus, the nation's intelligence analysts expect increased assaults by state-sponsored bioterrorists, militant religious cults and other extremist groups on such targets as food and agriculture.
The largest animal disease outbreak in America in recent history, wrote Corrie Brown, the head of the pathology department at the University of Georgia's College of Veterinary Medicine, was one caused by avian influenza that erupted in Pennsylvania some 15 years ago. A deadly viral variant spread quickly, prompting Agriculture officials to kill all exposed chickens at a cost of $63 million to the Federal Government. Economists estimated that had they not been killed, the cost to United States agriculture would have been as high as $5.6 billion. Even so, Dr. Brown concluded, the six-month outbreak caused poultry prices to rise by $349 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Plum Island is about a mile off Orient Point on Long Island's North Fork. Federal plans call for a $215 million top-security upgrading. (Plum Island Animal Disease Center); Dr. Alfonso Torres, the former director of the Plum Island Center. (Judith Miller/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of Long Island shows location of Plum Island: The Agriculture Department sees Plum Island as a top-security lab. (pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PLUM ISLAND ANIMAL DISEASE CENTER; AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLUM ISLAND ANIMAL DISEASE CENTER; AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; PLUM ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; FOOD; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS TERRORISM (92%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); BIOCHEMICAL RESEARCH (89%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (77%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (77%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (76%); ARMIES (75%); BIOCHEMISTRY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (58%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILLER, JUDITH DICK LUGAR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



485 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Makes A Quick Trip To Raise Funds

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani took an afternoon trip to Minnesota yesterday to raise money for his prospective campaign for United States Senate.
Bruce Teitelbaum, the head of Mr. Giuliani's campaign committee, Friends of Giuliani, said the fund-raiser was held privately at the request of Mayor Norm Coleman of St. Paul. Mr. Giuliani, he said, "started his day as usual with his 8 A.M. staff meeting, then he held a cabinet meeting, followed by the dedication of a community center and a press conference before he left for a fund-raising event in Minnesota after which he returned to New York." 
 He added, "The Mayor's policy is to open all political events to the press unless the host chooses otherwise."
Aides said Mr. Giuliani left at about noon and was back at Gracie Mansion by 6:30 P.M. The trip was not listed on the Mayor's daily public schedule, which is put out by his press office at City Hall, nor was it publicized by Friends of Giuliani. City Hall officials said the Mayor did not intend to be secretive about the trip, which they described as extremely brief.
Mr. Giuliani traveled without his usual entourage, which often includes Mr. Teitelbaum and the City Hall press secretary, Sunny Mindel. The Mayor was accompanied yesterday only by his chief of staff, Anthony V. Carbonetti, and his chief fund-raiser, Laura Van Hove.
By law, when the Mayor is out of state, his powers pass to Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for operations, but Mr. Lhota had to be in New Jersey yesterday afternoon.
So for about 90 minutes, the city was left in the care of Randy L. Levine, the Deputy Mayor for economic development, who is third in the line of temporary succession. During his time in charge, Mr. Levine was said to have eaten lunch. Aides said that the Mayor remained in contact with City Hall by cellular phone throughout the afternoon.
Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, is widely expected to run for the Senate next year against the First Lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton. His trip yesterday raised about $60,000, aides said.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CITY HALL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) CITY HALL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES FUNDRAISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NORM COLEMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



486 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: TRADE DEFICIT RISE PROVOKES CONCERN OF RISK TO DOLLAR

BYLINE: By By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Another leap in the United States trade deficit in July fueled fears today that the continuing surge in imports was threatening the health of the dollar.
As the American currency dipped yet again versus the Japanese yen, largely because of disappointment over the widening trade gap at home and inaction by monetary authorities in Tokyo, stocks and bonds reacted by falling sharply in financial markets. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 225 points, slightly more than 2 percent. Page C10. 
 The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit for July hit $25.2 billion, higher than the June imbalance of $24.6 billion, confounding expectations that the deficit would start to shrink as economic growth picked up around the world. Imports from China, Western Europe and Japan all hit new highs, well above the projections of most economists who have followed the trade flows with increasing concern. And exports advanced only slightly.
Administration officials sought to put the numbers in perspective. "The figures are still not as bad as they were in 1987," William Daley, the Commerce Secretary, said today, noting that in 1987 -- the last time the trade deficit set a record -- the trade deficit was 3.3 percent of the country's gross domestic product. Today it is closer to 2.8 percent, but it is rising fast. "But the numbers are high enough that they are a political problem, and they could become an economic problem," he said.
While today's figures represented a record in dollar terms, it is the deficit's size as a percentage of the economy that is a truer measure of its importance.
But many analysts fear that the steady increase of the trade imbalance -- expected to hit $250 billion this year -- is undercutting the value of the dollar as money flows out of the United States to pay for an apparently insatiable American demand for imported cars, electronics and luxury goods. A weak dollar, which makes imports more expensive for consumers, could in turn contribute to inflation and prompt the Federal Reserve to engineer another increase in interest rates.
"With each new record trade deficit, the dollar grows more vulnerable," said Michael Fenollosa, an international economist with John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance.
 Until this summer, rising imports were generally regarded as relatively good news in the financial markets. The dollar was strong, and the influx of relatively inexpensive electronics, auto parts and other goods served to revive shattered Asian economies and helped contain inflation. That contributed to keeping interest rates low.
But in the last two months, the calculus has shifted. While the American economy remains strong, the dollar has fallen more than 14 percent against the yen since July, far more than expected. Some analysts worry that there is no bottom in sight for the American currency.
And what the markets received today was a double dose of news that the challenges may only grow worse: just before the trade numbers came out, Japan's central bank declined to take aggressive steps to reverse the yen's heady rise in value. Those steps might have only been a stopgap measure. Nonetheless, they sent a message to investors that the yen would continue to rise, and that message soon became self-fulfilling. In New York today, the dollar settled at 104.87 yen, versus 106.38 yen on Monday, a significant shift by the standards of the currency markets.
 In early trading in Tokyo on Wednesday, the dollar stengthened a bit against the yen.
"It's fair to say that there's considerable tension with the Japanese right now," one senior Administration official said. "These are the kinds of shifts that can portend trouble if you leave them untreated."
Japan's Finance Minister and former Prime Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, is expected here this weekend for the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and Japan's strategy for capping the rise of its currency is expected to be the lead item on his agenda.
But last year, the Bank of Japan was granted independence from the Government. Since then, the central bank has come under strong political pressure, and Mr. Miyazawa has pressed it in recent days to loosen monetary policy further, even though interest rates are hovering near zero. The bank's refusal to comply today revealed a deep split with the Government and a surprising sense of fortitude that some say borders on foolishness.
Today's figures complicate the politics of trade for the Administration on several fronts. Surging imports from China -- the deficit was $6.31 billion in July and $35.65 billion so far this year -- greatly complicate the Administration's efforts to win Congressional approval of a deal to put China in the World Trade Organization this year, if talks on that deal are wrapped up soon.
Even apart from that, the Republican majority leader in the House, Dick Armey of Texas, said today that he doubted that any deal struck with Beijing would make it through the House. Lawmakers who "have a long-term commitment to freedom of trade, they're saying: 'I don't want to go home and face the anger of my constituents if I vote for this.' "
Mr. Daley acknowledged today that the most disturbing aspect of the figures was that exports to China were still falling.
"The decline in our exports to China is difficult to square with the continued strong growth in their domestic economy," he said. "China is part of the global marketplace; if China truly wants to join the World Trade Organization, the Chinese Government must open her markets to foreign goods and services."
The figures provide fuel for the critics of Vice President Al Gore. So far, the rising trade deficit is the biggest chink in the Administration's economic armor, and Republicans are trying to exploit the argument that Mr. Gore has contributed to a strategy of running up the deficit.
In fact, President Clinton has suggested that such a strategy was in place; he said in New Zealand last week that that United States deliberately let its trade deficit rise to aid the countries of Asia after the economic crisis that struck the region in July 1997. But he did not discuss how to reverse that trend now that their economies are recovering.
Imports in July surged 1 percent to a record $104.2 billion, exceeding the modest rise in exports to $79 billion from $78.6 the previous month.
The deficit with Japan slightly exceeded the deficit with China, at $6.78 billion in July, and $40.37 billion for the year so far. But the problem is not only with Asian nations -- trade with Canada and Mexico, America's partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement, totaled about a third of the deficit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" tracks dollar amount of imports, exports, and deficit, from February 1998 through July 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (63%); JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



487 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: City Calls Police Recruiting Drive a Success

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
A $9 million recruitment campaign that the New York Police Department began last winter with a goal of making the force more representative of the five boroughs yielded modest increases in the number of city residents and members of minority groups who signed up to take the police test, Police Commissioner Howard Safir said yesterday.
But some critics questioned whether the results of the campaign were dramatic enough to consider the recruitment drive, which was by far the city's largest and costliest ever, a success. A total of 15,200 people signed up to take the police test this year, up from 14,202 last year, Mr. Safir said. In past years, however, it was routine for more than 20,000 people to sign up for tests: 21,657 did so in 1997, and 31,986 did in 1996. The written test, to be administered this year on Oct. 2, is the first step toward becoming a police officer. 
 Mr. Safir brushed off the critics, saying this year's recruitment drive achieved its goals. "The whole idea of this campaign was to attract more city residents, which we did, and more people of color, which we have," he said. "What I find most amazing about all of this is that with the negative press that the N.Y.P.D. has experienced over the past year, in which the P.D. has been vilified by the press over and over again, it is even more of an indication of the success of the recruiting campaign."
The recruitment drive, which included television, radio and newspaper advertisements, as well as large outdoor rallies, was announced in February as the public outcry over the police shooting of Amadou Diallo mounted and many officials said they were concerned that the police force has a higher percentage of white officers than the city it serves. Some officials renewed their calls for legislation that would require police officers to live in the city.
Preliminary data indicates that 67 percent of the people who signed up to take the written exam this year live in the city, up from 64 percent of last year's group, Mr. Safir said. The number of black applicants rose to 25.9 percent this year, up from 21.1 percent last year, and the number of Hispanic applicants rose to 30 percent, up from 25.5 percent.
But critics questioned whether it was cost-effective to spend more than $9 million on a recruitment drive, considering the results: about 700 more city residents, about 800 more black applicants and about 800 more Hispanic applicants.
"It's incremental progress," said Norman Siegel, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. "With all the resources and attention paid to this, one would have hoped that the increases would have been more dramatic."
As the economy has strengthened, urban police departments around the country have had difficulty recruiting officers. In New York City, candidates must complete two years of college or military service before they are eligible to join the force, which pays a $34,000 starting salary, with benefits factored in. Many police officials said that the job, with relatively low pay, difficult hours and its inherent risks, is simply a hard sell.
Patrick Lynch, the new president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said that the city needs to improve the salaries and working conditions of officers. "I think they spent $9 million and wasted their money," he said. "The starting salary doesn't put food on the table. The best recruitment poster is a happy police officer, who goes home and tells his relatives and friends about the job."
Throughout the campaign Mr. Safir and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani have referred to the drive as a campaign aimed at city residents, not at members of minority groups. But their statements have left little doubt that they were hoping to use the drive to make the department more racially diverse.
The New York Police Department is one of the nation's least racially diverse big-city departments. Whites make up 67.4 percent of the force, but only 43.4 percent of the city's population, according to figures from the Police Department and from the 1990 United States Census. Among the nation's 10 largest cities, the only two with a higher percentage of white officers are San Diego and Phoenix, where a far greater percentage of residents are white.
The percentage of officers living in the city has dropped in the last decade, to 54 percent from 60 percent.
Lieut. Eric Adams, of the group 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, said the department will need better pay and better community relations if it is to attract more black and Hispanic applicants and city residents. "You can't buy this," he said. "You have to go out there and earn it one body at a time."
In addition to its advertising blitz, the Police Department gave out hundreds of pens and key chains with the department logo and opened a recruiting station in an empty storefront on a mall on DeKalb Avenue in downtown Brooklyn. One morning last month, shortly before Mr. Safir paid a visit to the station, a police officer approached a young man there.
"Interested in joining the Police Department?" the officer asked.
"I'm a gang member," the young man replied, walking on without stopping.
Mr. Safir said he expects the recruitment campaign to have residual effects as the Police Department prepares for its next drive in January, for a test in May. And he said he has no doubt that the numbers would have been much worse had the department not spent the time, money and energy in trying to attract applicants from the city. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); POLICE DEPARTMENT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); POLICE DEPARTMENT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; MINORITIES (US); TESTS AND TESTING POLICE FORCES (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SHOOTINGS (50%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; SAFIR, HOWARD (COMR) HOWARD SAFIR (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



488 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Bank Clings to Monetary Policy

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The Japanese central bank voted today to leave monetary policy unchanged, defying Government officials and economists here and abroad who have been demanding that the bank take aggressive steps to reverse the yen's heady rise in value.
"Foreign exchange rates themselves are not an aim of Bank of Japan monetary policy," the bank said in a tartly worded statement. "The Bank of Japan has learned valuable lessons from the bubble years that connecting monetary policy to control of exchange rates" carries the risk of getting policy wrong. 
 About 5 P.M. here today, when the bank issued its statement, the dollar was selling at almost 107 yen. Twenty minutes later, it was worth 104, as traders surged into the market to buy yen and sell dollars on a bet that the Japanese currency would strengthen. Late in New York today, the yen settled at 104.87 to the dollar, compared with 106.38 on Monday.
 Early Wednesday, the yen was virtually unchanged. The Japanese stock market, though, fell sharply, down more than 3 percent in the first two hours of trading.
"Now, it's going to be the markets versus the Bank of Japan," a senior Japanese Finance Ministry official said. "The market was disappointed, and so were many people in the Ministry of Finance."
The ministry had been pressing the central bank to further loosen what the bank already considers a loose monetary policy -- in the interest of weakening the yen, which surged to its strongest levels in more than three years last week.
The yen's strength reflects a belief among global investors that Japan's economy is emerging from a prolonged slump, which has increased demand for the currency. But a strong yen also makes Japanese exports more expensive abroad and could forestall economic recovery.
"A stronger yen means exporters get hurt, they cut wages, their employees cut their spending and that hampers economic growth," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo.
The United States Treasury has also pressed the Japanese central bank for a looser monetary policy as a condition for American participating in any coordinated effort to weaken the yen.
The currency markets had been betting that the Japanese would move in some way to dilute the yen's value by expanding the money supply, perhaps by pumping more excess cash into the money market than the one trillion yen now available. That expectation had pushed down the currency on Monday and helped rally Japanese stock prices.
The bank did not, in fact, rule out an expansion of the money supply, but it repeated its official position that such additional liquidity would have a short-term impact at best. "The Bank of Japan cannot resort to policies if it cannot explain their effects," it said.
The central bank has steadfastly maintained that it has gone as far as it can to pump liquidity into the economy, but to no avail. It has pushed short-term interest rates close to zero, and still, commercial banks are reluctant to lend and prospective borrowers to borrow. It has intervened in the currency markets, selling yen nine times since June to push down the currency, and yet the yen has moved higher and higher.
Mr. Feldman said he thought the central bank would now begin laying the groundwork for an an easing of monetary policy, with the aim of expanding the money supply, but without appearing to make a 180-degree turn away from its stated opposition to such an approach.
"The issue of saving face for the Bank of Japan is quite important," he wrote in a report to investors. Referring to Masaru Hayami, the bank's chief, he said, "Governor Hayami has taken a strong stance against easing, and he must be satisfied that the Bank of Japan is not being bullied and does not appear to be bullied."
Mr. Hayami has charted an independent course for the central bank since he took over as head of its policy board last year, when the bank was declared free from the Finance Ministry and the ruling political party. But he has had to fight the bank's former masters every step of the way, and in the process, has been accused of stubbornness and inflexibility. There has been speculation Mr. Hayami will step down, but he seems firmly committed to his job.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES MONETARY POLICY (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE MASARU HAYAMI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



489 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Bill Is Blocked In Fight Over Minimum Pay

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Trying to force a vote on a measure to increase the minimum wage, Democratic senators today blocked Republican legislation to revamp Federal bankruptcy laws, at least for the time being.
The bankruptcy bill, a version of which was approved by the House of Representatives in May, is one of the few Republican legislative initiatives still in play this year. Strongly supported by the banking and credit card industries, it would make it harder for consumers to avoid paying debts by declaring bankruptcy. 
 Democrats, led by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, want to attach an amendment that would raise the Federal minimum wage, now $5.15 an hour, to $6.15 in two 50-cent installments over the next two years.
"Raising the minimum wage is critical to preventing the economic free fall that often leads to bankruptcy," Senator Kennedy said today.
But most Republicans say raising the minimum wage would be devastating to some small businesses and would cost many jobs.
Voting along party lines this evening, the Senate rejected a Republican move to bring the bankruptcy bill to a vote by invoking cloture. The vote was 53 to 45, 7 votes shy of the 60 needed to halt debate. If cloture had been approved, the Democrats' minimum-wage amendment would have been foreclosed.
Behind the scenes, however, party leaders were meeting to try to negotiate a compromise. The prevailing view in both parties today was that a deal could eventually be worked out that would lead to passage of both the minimum-wage increase and the bankruptcy legislation.
The minimum wage issue has divided Republicans and Democrats for generations, and arguments have hardly changed since the minimum wage was introduced in the 1930's.
On one side are the Democrats and liberal economists who hold that market forces have failed workers in low-paying jobs. A fair minimum wage, they say, prevents sweatshops and rewards people who leave welfare rolls and go to work. These advocates maintain that the resulting job loss, if any, will be trivial.
On the other side, Republicans and conservative economists say that much of the benefit will go to teen-agers who do not really need the money and that some businesses, especially smaller ones, will go bankrupt, and others will raise prices, leading to inflation. Many poor people, the opponents say, will lose jobs because businesses will let them go rather than raise their pay.
Whatever the economic arguments, the political situation is clear: this is a good issue for Democrats, and Republicans are likely to switch rather than fight.
In the House, Republican leaders have conceded that they do not have the votes to defeat the Democratic bill. They are working on a compromise that would tie the minimum-wage increase to some modest tax breaks for small businesses.
Supporters of the legislation said today that despite the setback, they expected the bankruptcy measure to be introduced again, particularly since a similar measure passed in the last session by a vote of 97 to 1.
But even if it is adopted, the Senate legislation cannot become law until it is reconciled with a more stringent version that was adopted by the House last May. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION MINIMUM WAGE (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); DISMISSALS (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; LABATON, STEPHEN TED KENNEDY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



490 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

ASIA
 
INDIA: POLLS PUT HINDUS AHEAD
An exit poll for the private Star TV said the Hindu nationalist-led coalition is heading for a sweeping victory in national elections that conclude Oct. 3. Another exit poll, broadcast by the state television network, put the coalition firmly in the lead, though not by such a large margin. A third, smaller exit poll, by a regional newspaper in the state of Maharashtra, showed the coalition narrowly ahead. Celia W. Dugger (NYT) 

PHILIPPINES: PROTESTS GROW
Transport strikes crippled four cities and more than 100,000 protesters marched to oppose President Joseph Estrada's plan to rewrite the Constitution. Warning against the return of dictatorship, church and leftist groups joined forces in demonstrations in Manila and major provincial cities. Jaime Cardinal Sin and other leaders fear that Mr. Estrada is pushing to remove a provision limiting a President to one six-year term. (Reuters)
 
JAPAN: LIBERAL LEADER RE-ELECTED
The Liberal Democratic Party re-elected Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi as its president, thus extending his term as head of the Government. Mr. Obuchi, who has been in office a year, has proven unexpectedly popular, using his political skills to cobble together a coalition that insures him legislative success and doling out money to push the economy. Stephanie Strom (NYT)
 
MALAYSIA: 3 ANWAR ACTIVISTS HELD
Three key opposition activists were arrested in what appears to be a new crackdown on dissent after a wave of protests in support of former Finance Minister Anwar Ibrahim, who is hospitalized after allegations that he was poisoned. Four other activists were arrested on Monday. Meanwhile, the opposition coalition chose Mr. Anwar as its candidate for Prime Minister, despite his six-year prison sentence for corruption. (AP)
 
NORTH KOREA: MOVE ON CURBS WELCOMED
North Korea welcomed a partial lifting of United States economic sanctions and asked for remaining curbs to be removed. "It is a good development, though it is not comprehensive and came belatedly," the Government news agency said. (AP)
 
EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: GOALS TO END POVERTY
Elaborating on a recent pledge by Prime Minister Tony Blair to eradicate child poverty in Britain in 20 years, the Government set a series of measurable goals to improve housing, health care and education, increase jobs and incomes and counter bias. Social Security Secretary Alistair Darling said, "For the first time a Government is standing up to be counted setting specific standards against which we will be judged tackling poverty and its causes." Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: CLASHES CONTINUE
The rival Catholic and Protestant parties, Sinn Fein and the Ulster Unionists, met together with Senator George J. Mitchell in Belfast but continued to clash over whether the Northern Ireland peace agreement could go forward without any disarmament by I.R.A. paramilitaries. Senator Mitchell, chairman of the talks that led to the April 1998 accord, is in the third week of a mission to rescue the stalemated accord. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
GERMANY: VATICAN CURBS ABORTION
Bishop Karl Lehmann, the head of the German Bishops' Conference, has received a letter from the Vatican telling German bishops that the church can no longer hand out counseling certificates to women to enable them to get abortions. Under German law, a woman wanting to end her pregnancy must first receive a certificate saying she has been counseled by an advisory service. One-sixth of the 1,500 such services in the country are run by the Catholic Church. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
FRANCE: MUSLIMS' EXPULSION STANDS
The Government upheld a decision to expel two Muslim girls from their junior high school after they wore traditional Islamic scarfs in class. The Government commissioner upheld the education authority's decision at an administrative court in Caen. The debate has brought France's tradition of separation of church and state into conflict with freedom of religious expression. (AP)
 
FRANCE: NEW CHIRAC RIVAL
The already frazzled right-wing party of President Jacques Chirac suffered a new split when a sixth candidate, Michele Alliot-Marie, entered the race to head the Gaullist movement, the Rally for the Republic. This will make it even harder for Mr. Chirac to unite the party behind his effort to be re-elected in 2000. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
FRANCE, ITALY: ONE-DAY CAR BAN
Paris and Rome, and more than 150 other European towns and cities, will join to celebrate a pedestrians' day today by keeping cars out of urban centers. Many boulevards, avenues and squares will be accessible only to strollers, rollerskaters, joggers and pedicabs. Some will allow buses and electric vehicles. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: NEW EFFORT BY OPPOSITION
Fourteen academics and intellectuals who are trying to help eight opposition parties break the impasse in talks over forming a coalition for the July 2000 general elections said they were writing a new proposal for how the parties could pick a single presidential candidate. But Vicente Fox and Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the two main opposition candidates, exchanged icy greetings in a chance public encounter and both suggested that they are writing the coalition out of their plans. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: PROTEST ON U.N. ENVOY
Israel protested the selection by Secretary General Kofi Annan of a special envoy to the Mideast, saying Mr. Annan had expanded the title and functions beyond that of a coordinator of United Nations activities in the region. Terje Roed-Larsen was appointed Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process and Mr. Annan's personal representative to the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. Israel's United Nations mission says the title implies a role for the organization in peace talks and is "unacceptable to the Government of Israel." Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
IRAQ: JOURNALIST HURT IN ATTACK
A Swedish journalist was slightly hurt in southern Iraq when a missile apparently fired by a Western warplane landed within 50 yards of a car in which he was riding. Jan Arell, of The Goteborg Post, said the attack had been preceded by nearby antiaircraft fire. United States military spokesmen confirmed that American and British planes had been in action at about the time Mr. Arell was hurt. Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
IRAN: RIGHTS RECORD DEPLORED
President Thomas Klestil of Austria expressed the European Union's "dismay and preoccupation over the human rights situation" in Iran after the death sentences handed down last week against four people said to have been behind student protests in July. Mr. Klestil was ending a two-day visit, the first in 20 years by a European Union head of state. (Agence France-Presse)
 
IRAN: CONSERVATIVES RETAIN CONTROL
Iran's conservative Council of Guardians has reasserted its right to bar election candidates from the ballot at will, a move seen as damaging to reformers' prospects in coming votes. In a letter to Parliament, the council rejected a part of the proposed new law requiring it to say in writing why a candidate was disqualified. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
SUDAN: OPPOSITION SUED OVER BLAST
The Government has filed lawsuits against opposition parties that took responsibility for an attack on a new oil pipeline in Government-controlled territory north of Khartoum. A presidential spokesman said prosecutors had been told to sue the opposition National Democratic Alliance and the Umma Party on charges of blowing up the line. Repairs are expected to be completed by today. (Agence France-Presse)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WEST INDIA (92%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WEST INDIA (92%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (73%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); CORRUPTION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ARRESTS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); POISONINGS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); CHILD POVERTY (60%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); SENTENCING (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALISTAIR DARLING (55%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (54%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



491 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Raise Intervention Abilities, Clinton Urges U.N. Members

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton today urged other members of the United Nations to strengthen their collective capacity for intervening to prevent the kinds of mass killings and ethnic repression that ravaged Kosovo and East Timor, saying that there are limits to what individual nations can accomplish.
"Promising too much can be as cruel as caring too little," Mr. Clinton said in a speech to the General Assembly. "But difficulties, dangers and costs are not an argument for doing nothing. 
 "When we are faced with deliberate, organized campaigns to murder whole peoples, or expel them from their land," he continued, "the care of victims is important, but not enough. We should work to end the violence."
But the President offered no specific proposals for helping the United Nations take responsibility for peacekeeping, even though its efforts in that regard have been hobbled by the failure of the United States to pay what it owes the world organization.
Indeed, Mr. Clinton waited till the end of his speech before turning to the subject uppermost on the minds of most of his audience: the $1.6 billion that the United Nations says Washington owes in back dues, interest and other assessments.
The President described the United Nations as "indispensable" and said that "the United States also has the responsibility to equip the U.N. with the resources that it needs to be effective.
"As I think most of you know, I have strongly supported the United States meeting all its financial obligations to the United Nations, and I will continue to do so," he said. There was polite but unenthusiastic applause at the end of his speech. President Clinton's spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said there has been "obvious and articulated concern from many quarters" about the unpaid debt, but he described the response to Mr. Clinton's speech as positive and appropriate.
"It's not like a basketball arena where people are standing, loudly cheering," Mr. Lockhart said.
President Clinton started his day by discussing the arrears with Secretary General Kofi Annan.
A senior Administration official said, "The President again indicated that this was a high priority for him and that he was very much going to work hard to try to see if we could resolve this problem this year."
Under the United Nations Charter, the United States could be stripped of its vote in the General Assembly at the end of 1999 unless it pays sufficiently on its arrears. In a July report, the General Accounting Office estimated that the United States would need to pay about $153 million in addition to the $508 million the State Department expects to pay before the end of the year.
The Senate approved a bill in June authorizing payment of more than $800 million to the United Nations, but it attached conditions cutting the American share of the budget from 25 to 20 percent and its share of peacekeeping expenses from 31 to 25 percent. The House has yet to vote on the measure.
Several diplomats and representatives of non-governmental organizations said President Clinton had lost credibility in terms of his ability to get the American dues paid.
In his remarks about stopping mass killings and ethnic cleansing, President Clinton acknowledged the United States' reluctance to get drawn into other deadly internal conflicts like those in Africa.
"I know that some are troubled that the United States and others cannot respond to every humanitarian catastrophe in the world," Mr. Clinton said. "We cannot do everything everywhere. But simply because we have different interests in different parts of the world does not mean we can be indifferent to the destruction of innocents in any part of the world."
Mr. Clinton defended the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's decision to begin an air war against Serbia, saying that it followed a consensus in the Security Council that Serbian atrocities against Kosovo's ethnic Albanians were unacceptable.
"Had we chosen to do nothing in the face of this brutality, I do not believe we would have strengthened the United Nations," Mr. Clinton said. "Instead, we would have risked discrediting everything it stood for."
His assertion was implicitly contradicted by the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, who said that the United Nations' authority had been "seriously and painfully tested" by the crises over ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and weapons inspections in Iraq. Russia objected to military action in both.
"We have managed through joint efforts to bring the settlement of the Kosovo problem back within the legal and political framework of the United Nations," Mr. Ivanov said.
Mr. Clinton proposed two other long-term goals for the United Nations: first, eradicating poverty and disease and helping poorer countries join the global economy.
"We must refuse to accept a future in which one part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy, while the other lives at knife edge of survival," he said.
The second goal was stopping the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
President Clinton, said cooperation was especially needed to keep weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of terrorist groups.
"They may have weaker capabilities than states, but they have fewer compunctions about using such weapons," he said.
After his speech, Mr. Clinton heldmeetings with several other leaders, including President Andres Pastrana of Colombia, whose country has been destabilized by guerrilla warfare and drug trafficking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a luncheon for heads of state yesterday, the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, center, made a toast. He was flanked by South Africa's President, Thabo Mbeki, to the right, and President Clinton. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); KOSOVO (93%); INDONESIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); KOSOVO (93%); INDONESIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE GENOCIDE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); APPROVALS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); THABO MBEKI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



492 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Ford in Pact With Canada's Auto Workers

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company reached a tentative, three-year contract this evening with the union representing its Canadian workers, three hours before a threatened strike at midnight.
The agreement was similar to the generous deal that DaimlerChrysler A.G. negotiated with the United Automobile Workers union last Thursday, although that contract is for four years. 
 Both deals call for workers to receive annual wage increases of 3 percent plus annual cost of living adjustments nearly equal to the inflation rate. With Canadian inflation running at close to 2 percent, the union said that this would mean total annual wage increases would be roughly 4.5 percent.
Both deals also provide large increases in pension benefits, to encourage older workers to retire, partly to make way for younger workers and partly to allow auto workers to reduce their work forces slowly so as to become more competitive. The Canadian retirees will receive an immediate, 13.5 percent increase in monthly pension payments.
"This is an excellent agreement," said Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, which represents 13,300 Ford workers in Canada. The union's members will vote on the agreement on Sunday; similar ratification votes in the past have been easily approved.
The final issue in the negotiations involved the union's contention that Ford planned to move the production of minivan seats in 2002 from a unionized supplier, the Lear Corporation, to Magna International Inc., which is not unionized. Mr. Hargrove said that this issue had not been resolved, and would be the subject of further talks with Ford.
The Canadian union plans to ask the General Motors Corporation and DaimlerChrysler to accept similar deals. Mr. Hargrove said that the union had not chosen which company would come next in the negotiations.
Tonight's peaceful settlement is a coup for Ford. Canadian auto workers have a militant tradition of going on strike against at least one auto maker each time a labor contract expires; the contract in force for the last three years expired at midnight. The union has checked its records back to 1970 and found a strike every time that a contract expired except in 1993.
Jane Armstrong, a union spokeswoman, said that she believed that there had also been strikes after every contract expiration before 1970, going back to the first contracts in the late 1930's, although the union has not checked its records back that far. The Canadian Auto Workers union split off from the less militant United Automobile Workers union and became independent in 1984.
The Canadian workers have almost always struck the first company with which their leaders have sought a deal. An exception to that rule came on the last contract, in 1996, when the Canadian workers staged a three-week walkout against General Motors after reaching a pattern-setting contract with what was then the Chrysler Corporation.
Despite the frequency of strikes, auto makers have been willing to expand their operations in Canada. While auto workers used to earn the same on both sides of the border, the weakness of the Canadian dollar in recent years has made auto workers' wages and other costs there a third lower than in the United States. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); DAI (FRA) (84%); DAI (BIT) (84%); MGA (NYSE) (84%); MG (TSX) (84%); LEA (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336370 MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (84%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS FORD MOTOR CO (98%); DAIMLER AG (84%); MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); LEAR CORP (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (82%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS (60%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS (60%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; COST OF LIVING LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); STRIKES (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; HARGROVE, BASIL BASIL HARGROVE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



493 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Growth in Trade Deficit Prompts Concern for Dollar
Another leap in the United States trade deficit in July fueled fears that a continuing surge in imports is threatening the health of the dollar.
The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit for the month hit $25.2 billion, higher than the June imbalance of $24.6 billion, confounding expectations that the deficit would start to shrink as economic growth picks up around the world. Imports from China, Western Europe and Japan all hit new highs, well above the projections of most economists who have followed the trade flows with increasing concern. Page A1. 

Stock prices were pulled down by a further slide in the value of the dollar against the yen, warnings about third-quarter earnings, worries about the earthquake in Taiwan and the trade deficit. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 225.43 points, to 10,598.47. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 27.95 points, to 1,307.58. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 65.05 points, to 2,821.10. C10.
 
Goldman Posts Strong Results
Goldman Sachs Group reported surprisingly strong earnings in its first full quarter as a public company, a striking reversal from a year ago when fallout from Russia's economic woes forced the investment banking firm to postpone plans for its initial public offering of stock. Goldman, which went public with an offering of $3.7 billion on May 4, said it earned $638 million, or $1.32 a diluted share, in its fiscal third quarter, exceeding the expectations of Wall Street analysts. C2.
 
Disparity in Minority Credit Ratings
Even in the current flush economic times, with home ownership rates reaching record highs, a disproportionately large number of minorities, chiefly blacks, have poor credit ratings, according to a new study. C5.
 
Pension Fight Moves to Congress
The fight over cash-balance pensions has moved to Congress, where lobbyists and Congressional aides say the dispute over I.B.M.'s pension switch will probably help spur legislation to rein in the plans. C4.
 
Japan Monetary Policy Unchanged
The Japanese central bank voted to leave monetary policy unchanged, defying Government officials and economists who have been demanding that the bank take aggressive steps to reverse the yen's heady rise in value. C3.
 
Venezuela Plans to Make Payments
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, in an effort to reassure foreign investors, said his Government would make all its debt payments while at the same time working on a market-friendly proposal that would allow it to pay off its current debt over a longer period. His comments came as investors keep a close watch on emerging markets throughout Latin America. Ecuador is struggling to avoid a default on its foreign debt and Brazil is still working to come back from the devaluation of its currency in January. C3.
 
Hewlett and Oracle to Collaborate
Hewlett-Packard strengthened its Internet presence with the announcement of a deal with Oracle to collaborate on developing and selling Oracle's electronic-commerce software on Hewlett-Packard computers. C6.
 
U.S. Suit Against Tobacco Industry
The Justice Department is about to file a civil suit against the tobacco industry and try to recover billions of dollars in health-related expenses, a Government official said. A1.
 
3Com Earnings Beat Expectations
3Com attributed its strong first-quarter earnings, which exceeded estimates, to strong growth in hand-held computing products and improved operating efficiency. C8.
 
HarperCollins Announces Cuts
HarperCollins, which recently acquired William Morrow & Company and Avon Books, announced a series of moves to consolidate its imprints, which resulted in layoffs of 74 employees and the departure of top executives from Morrow. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,598.47, down 225.43
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.09%, up 0.02
The euro -- $1.049, up 0.01
The dollar -- 104.87 yen, down 1.51
 
Graph tracks the share price of Goldman Sachs, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ECUADOR (79%); TAIWAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ECUADOR (79%); TAIWAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (85%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PROFIT WARNINGS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



494 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AUSTRALIA;
TAXES TO BE CUT

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Australian Government plans to cut business and capital gains taxes to make the nation more attractive to investors. The business tax rate will be cut by six percentage points, to 30 percent, on a par with Germany and below the United States, the Treasurer, Peter Costello, said. The Government will also cut the highest rate of capital gains tax for individuals by half, to 24 percent, and exempt United States and British investors from paying capital gains tax on venture funds. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA; GREAT BRITAIN; AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

PERSON: PETER COSTELLO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



495 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 33; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 2394 words

HEADLINE: Man Emerges, Still Breathing, After E-Cave Confinement

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
AS humanity moves to the 21st-century method of grocery shopping -- over the Internet -- I see key limitations of old-style, walk-in markets. For one thing, they never told me that the banana is considered an herb because it lacks woody tissue.
I pick up that fact when I click on "banana" while strolling the produce section of Webvan, an on-line grocer that advertises same-day delivery. As I fill my virtual basket, I bask in the advantages of on-line shopping, like copious product information, and in the absence of time-consuming shopping hassles, like finding a parking space or wearing pants. 
 It is a Sunday night, and I have just sealed myself into an E-cave. For the next five days, I will order all sustenance and entertainment from the Net. I will hunker down in a bachelor pad in Palo Alto, Calif., armed with credit card and mouse. I will become the worst nightmare of OPEC and the makers of deodorant soap.
I click my way to Webvan's checkout aisle to schedule a delivery time. Tomorrow morning would be great. Then, crisis. I'm told that deliveries are first come, first served. Webvan can deliver the same day, but the next available appointment is Wednesday night. Wednesday? By Wednesday, I could walk to the nearest market and back -- on stilts. I could buy groceries and take a two-day seminar on "The Banana: Animal, Mineral or Herb."
E-commerce has revolutionized the selling of books, compact disks, travel and financial services and computer hardware and software -- commodities shoppers don't need to squeeze and prod to get a handle on. But will the on-line bazaar work for everyday survival, and as a means for daily upkeep of heart, soul, body, mind and, foremost, stomach?
Or, put another way, as I stare at Webvan's offer of a delivery in 72 hours: When E-commerce fails to deliver, which parts of my computer are edible?
 
Monday
Learning to Order Food In an Australian Accent
In his quest for food, primitive man faced disease, pestilence and the woolly mammoth. I face slothlike delivery schedules. Undaunted by my Webvan disappointment, I set out on Monday morning to hunt and gather 21st-century style. I soon spot prey.
A Web search turns up 69 sites offering "grocery delivery," including Groceronline, Netgrocer and Electrolley. I pop into and register at several sites, then head down the virtual aisles.
But each time I go to check out, I learn delivery is either not available in my area or will take 3 to 10 days. Electrolley serves only Perth, Australia. Internet Home Delivery focuses on Florida's North Pinellas County. A harsh reality dawns: either I wait a week for food or move to Australia.
By noon, frantic I'll star in the sequel to "Alive," I change strategies. I search on "food delivery, Palo Alto" and am led to Waiters.com, a service that takes on-line orders for local restaurants. At one spot I know, the Good Earth, I point and click through the menu. But I make rookie E-commerce errors, neglecting, for example, to complete registration forms. I inadvertently hit the browser's back button while trying to order a Danish. Two hours later -- it's 1:30 in the afternoon -- my $32 order arrives from the Good Earth. Hungry and having not seen another human being in nearly 24 hours, I practically hug Louis, the Waiters.com driver. This prompts some advice. "If I were you," he says, "I would have ordered over the phone. It's easier."
If he only knew. All day, I have battled not just delivery schedules but a debilitating injury. I have hurt my left pinkie. I jammed it in a recent basketball game, and it's swollen and purple, like a mini-eggplant.
If this sounds melodramatic, consider that in evolutionary terms, there is little worse than a crippled typing finger in the E-commerce age. I'm like a cave man unable to carry a club, a tiger without claws. I wince each time I type Q or A, two-thirds of the mother lode of all pertinent information on most sites. I speak of the "FAQ."
I divine an answer: the cybermedic. A search for "medical advice" returns the names of dozens of doctors who offer virtual consultations. I even find a specialist, a sports orthopedist named Stuart Zeman. "Most people dread going to the doctor," his site says. "It can be expensive, inconvenient and stressful." Dr. Zeman's alternative is an E-mail consultation for 10 bucks.
Not only is he inexpensive, he's also concise. You get one paragraph to describe your malady, and the virtual physician's response runs only a few lines. (Somewhere, an H.M.O. executive is taking copious notes.)
And so by the end of the day, I have scored several small E-commerce victories, including the fact that late in the afternoon, I have discovered an on-line grocer called Peapod. It was recommended not by a search engine but by Louis from Waiters .com. I arrange for a Tuesday delivery.
When I go to bed, I have fed my brain with food, and I have tended to my corpus with medical advice. Tomorrow, feeling more seasoned in the ways of E-commerce, I will feed my soul. I will buy a golf course.
 
Tuesday
Living Room Is Perfect For Sinking a 9-Footer
Well, not an entire golf course, but at least an indoor putting green. This will permit me to test my E-commerce mettle, alleviate the boredom that accompanies an on-line, in-house life style and address one of life's pressing concerns, improving my golf game.
My search-engine request on Yahoo spits out nearly 40 possible merchants, with names like Eagle Putting Greens and Chip-n-Putt. There are synthetic putting greens for the backyard, the home, the office, the home office and the backyard office. There are do-it-yourself kits, synthetic grass sold by the yard and pictures of children playing on elaborate miniature golf courses that can be constructed on large estates.
It occurs to me that the Net is the world's biggest mall, a discount shopping strip that stretches from Finland to Fresno. But it's a double-edged sword; the vast product choices can make for a bottomless shopping experience. An obsessive-compulsive comparison shopper may wind up being carried away in a padded van.
I settle on a shop called Big Moss Golf. This is partly because it feels like a local store and partly because it promises to bring my handicap out of the stratosphere. And partly because it has a toll-free number for customer service, and I'm starting to get a little lonely in the E-cave.
"You'll have to work that out yourself," Tony Terisco says. He's the owner of Big Moss Golf who sells me on the Big Moss Original, a $159, nine-foot-long piece of carpet simulated to feel like grass with a golf hole at one end.
"This will do more for your game than anything else in the golf industry," he promises.
It dawns on me that it may be even more instructive to play actual golf. But I'm in no mood to quibble. I pay an extra $30 for overnight delivery.
Just then, I receive a house call from my on-line doctor, Stuart Zeman. "You must get an X-ray," he prescribes in no uncertain terms.
Leave the house? Never! I've got a reputation to uphold. I decide to seek a second opinion. I fire off an E-mail to Dr. Michele Moore, who runs a site called www.askyour familydoc.com. She will give me a virtual bedside counsel for $25.
As dusk settles, I'm feeling ever more optimistic about my E-commerce prowess. Except for one nagging concern: Have I started to go a little stir-crazy? Does part of me long for casual conversation in the express checkout lane, a little flirtation with the waitress, even an exchange of angry words at a stoplight?
I quickly dismiss the notion. Frankly, I'm as sane at this moment as I've ever been. I am totally in control.
 
Wednesday
An On-line Warrior Victorious in Battle
Help. Send Prozac. Otherwise, I may torture and kill my neighbor. She's a nice enough young lady, but she's been practicing the piano for hours, repeatedly crashing down on the keys with hands like anvils. I look frazzled, with hair like Mozart's.
But I will combat her, E-commerce style. My weapons are earplugs and aspirin. My destination is pharmaceutical sites. I settle on Planetrx.com and Drugstore.com, which are battling it out to be the next millennium's Long's and Walgreens, but without the bricks and mortar.
I register at each site and check their delivery schedules. Then I take my budding skills to the next level -- I engage in a bit of hard-core price comparison. I open two browser windows and compare the sites side by side, checking response time, prices and product information. It is as if I were walking down an aisle with the products from the respective stores on each side of me. I am voting in real time with my mouse.
The arrows favor Planetrx. Minutes later, I "walk out" with earplugs and Advil, opting for overnight delivery for an additional $10. While I'm at it, I check out the stores' aisles of bandage tape for my injured digit. Drugstore.com offers eight pages of athletic tape and gauze products.
This is when I realize I've E-volved into a wily E-commerce veteran. I'm in and out of the drugstores in 10 minutes, far less than it would have taken to drive to a pharmacy. I've learned that E-commerce success depends on equal parts computer and modem but also confidence and experience. When I look in the mirror, I see a mouse-toting warrior, albeit one whose hair is standing on end, who is clad exclusively in boxer shorts. No shirt. No shoes. No problem.
Flush with success, I endeavor an E-commerce challenge with an Olympic degree of difficulty. I'm going to use my modem to get my cat to stop throwing up. I've tried the normal remedies, like giving her soft foods and beer, but frankly, I inherited the cat from an ex-girlfriend and I never could figure her out -- the cat, I mean.
I find a veterinarian to consult by E-mail. But then I ascend further, pinpointing a service that in and of itself may illustrate just how far this new commerce medium has come: Kay Cox, on-line pet psychiatrist, www.getnet.com/petcouns/. Ms. Cox, a self-proclaimed "pet therapist and talent scout," offers on-line consultation for $40 an hour. I send her an electronic missive and assure the cat it will be O.K.
Meanwhile, my own psychological salve has arrived -- my putting green. John Tuggle, the U.P.S. deliveryman, takes one look at me and says, "I think you need to get out of the house and go to the shopping mall."
Hardly. I'm on a roll. I've used the Net to gather my food, tend to my body, my soul, my own sanity and that of my pet. Now I will endeavor the final frontier. I will tend to my heart. I will find love.
 
Thursday
The Moment of Truth: Searching for Love
"They" say it's hard to meet good people these days. "They" say it's tough to find a soul mate amid the cacophony of modern life.
Well, they've never met Kitten664.
This is the woman I am paired up with by Matchmaker.com. The on-line service concluded we may constitute a love connection by comparing our answers to about 50 questions like personal hobbies, income, height and weight and reading habits. Kitten664 and I matched on 54 percent of our answers, like the fact that we're both avid readers and own sport utility vehicles.
Plus, we're both 5 feet 8 inches tall and weigh 160 pounds. It's true: I soon realize that among the criteria the company matches are our height and weight, which doesn't seem like a quality that either sex typically wants in a mate.
In a second attempt at a dating service, I fill out a questionnaire on a site that promises to help me find my soul mate. But when I finish, it takes me to an advertisement for free, on-line pornography. I don't think this is a site I'd like to bring home to my mother.
But there is good news on my penultimate day in the E-cave. The swelling in my pinkie has gone down. This is partly thanks to E-mail from Dr. Moore, who advocates icing and elevating the finger.
Also, I've ordered lunch with ease from Waiters.com -- without even needing to register because my registration is already on file. Plus, the cat has quit vomiting, even though the pet psychiatrist hasn't returned our E-mails. Sometimes the very suggestion of therapy inspires healing.
And I'm starting to sink my putts. OPEC is in real jeopardy.
 
Friday
A Little Wisdom Gleaned From Living Life on Line
Just when I am feeling as if I may never need the outside world again, fate intervenes. My office calls and tells me I must go on an urgent assignment. My week in the E-cave is cut short. I will put down the mouse and pick up the car keys.
As I do so, I reflect on the four days gone by. I have discovered that with a little practice and experience, the Net can yield some powerful dividends. Product information and diversity are unparalleled. The next time I need a sweater for my Irish setter and a pet sitter in matching attire, I'll toss aside the Yellow Pages and let my modem do the walking.
Plus, there is extraordinary capacity to compare prices. When my local retailer advertises "the lowest prices on the planet or we'll give you your money back and buff your car," I'll print out some prices from the Net and drive them over.
Then there's the downside. The on-line experience can be an isolating one. Some very important sense of community develops from shopping in the flesh, despite the hassles of driving, parking, fighting crowds and arguing whether you really have 10 or 11 items in the express lane.
There are other bugs, too. Like sometimes an E-commerce site just freezes up, and frequently a site won't answer customer service E-mails for days. In either case, it's like walking up to a sales clerk in a store, asking a question, then having him glower at you before turning around and walking away. "Hey, I'm talking to you," I shouted at one point during the week to a frozen site. I may need a pet therapist myself.
Ultimately, I conclude there are two basic and unassailable tenets of the E-commerce life: (1) you can order anything under the sun over the Net -- and in greater selection than in any other single venue on the planet, and (2) plan ahead, or you'll starve to death.
One more thing. Once you do hunt and gather your food, once you navigate the registration and saunter confidently into the virtual checkout line of life, make sure to include one key facet of the old economy: find someone to eat it with.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 22 in the special E-Commerce section about ordering goods and services on the Internet referred incorrectly to the criteria of an on-line dating service, Match maker.com, for matching couples. The service does not pair people by height and weight.

GRAPHIC: Photos: But Don't Ask How Often He Changed His Clothes -- The things, large and small, that keep Internet-man going include: a bandage for a jammed left pinkie; cereal and milk (bananas optional); contact with the outside world, in this case represented by the Peapod delivery man, Sterling Crockett, and, of course, an indoor putting green for sharpening his golf game. Not shown is Kitten664, the match arranged for Internet-man by Matchmaker.com. (Photographs by Steve Castillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (74%); FLORIDA, USA (64%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (74%); FLORIDA, USA (64%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET RETAILING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT STUART ZEMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999



496 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
With Mencken Around, Politicians Didn't Have a Prayer

BYLINE: By Walter Goodman 

 BODY:
Every so often, usually in the slough of a political campaign, I find myself returning to the works of H. L. Mencken. It is not any ideological affinity that draws me but the inimitable effervescence of the man's language. Particularly in the current combat, with so many Presidential claimants sporting religious credentials, Mencken, who died in 1956, remains as impertinent and as pertinent as ever.
The journalist assigned to cover the campaigns of George W. Bush, Al Gore or Elizabeth Dole, of Gary Bauer, Patrick J. Buchanan or others must perforce tread carefully when the candidates allude to alliances with religion. Who in the press is about to express public skepticism about anyone's faith? Even the most impudent critics, who feast on financial finaglings and sexual indiscretions, shy away from questioning or giving offense when it comes to professions of piety. 
Mencken had no such compunctions. Religion, particularly as practiced by American go-getters, was his specialty, and skepticism was a commandment. He hailed the skeptical approach as "socially very valuable, immensely more valuable, in fact, than any known sort of faith." He rarely acknowledged that politicians might be sincere about their religious beliefs, and, anyway, for him sincerity was no excuse for what he deemed outlandish notions.
The booboisie, as he liked to call his fellow Americans, provided him with "unfeigned delight," and in any period of campaign smog his prose was an air purifier. For readers unacquainted with his range, spirit and invective, here, from a 1922 essay, is his summary of American public manners: "the unending procession of governmental extortions and chicaneries, of commercial brigandages and throat-slittings, of theological buffooneries, of aesthetic ribaldries, of legal swindles and harlotries, of miscellaneous rogueries, villainies, imbecilities, grotesqueries and extravagances." He wrote, "Only a man who was born with a petrified diaphragm can fail to laugh himself to sleep every night."
What he called "theological buffooneries" occupy many pages of his work. The exhibitions of religious fervor as primaries approach sometimes bring to mind the knee-bendings of football players who seem to believe that God cares who scores a touchdown. Many assuredly must be in earnest, but it is not always easy to sort faith from ambition.
Although Mencken evinced little admiration for the practices of Roman Catholics and Jews, as a specialist in genus Americanus he directed most of his animadversions at various manifestations of Protestantism. In his book "Treatise on the Gods" he boasted that he could invent any number of new sects "and all of them would be 10 times as plausible" as any then in existence.
Mencken's views of religious fundamentalism became famous through his dispatches on the 1925 Scopes "monkey trial," but he went beyond the creationists when he took on "the corps of evangelical pastors . . . a body devoid of sense and lamentably indifferent to common honesty." He tells a story of a Frenchman who was leaving the church of his fathers. When asked what variety of Protestantism he planned to patronize, he replied, "I have lost my faith but not my reason."
Since then it has become impermissible for members of one denomination to come out so rudely against the competition. But Mencken, that ecumenical insulter, would surely have mined laughs from a President's taking counsel with his pastor about his relations with a young intern or of a Vice President's sudden appreciation of generous Buddhists.
Why has Menckenism gone out of style? One reason, of course, is a deficiency of talent. Few journalists have written so bitingly or humorously about public figures. But probably more important, by the time of his death America's constraints on his sort of invective had become more severe, and there were signs of further constriction on the way.
The casually disparaging cracks about selected groups to which Mencken was prone had gone out of style. After the Holocaust it was harder to make jokes about Jews, and as the civil rights movement gained force, the nation became more considerate about references to blacks. So, too, did sensitivity increase about Asian-Americans and Latinos, the gay and the disabled.
Even admirers of the Mencken spirit can welcome the increased shows of tolerance, respect and diversity in America. Most people take pride in the ability of different races and religions to live together in reasonable tranquillity, well worth the loss of a little easy humor. And yet, particularly when the political juices are flowing and language turns to jelly, Mencken is missed.
In his gentler moments Mencken could praise the Old Testament for its literature and Christianity for its spirit of charity. But mostly, by his accounting, the religious squadrons were composed of con artists and their gulls. When it came to politicians, he found religion being pressed into service "as a sanction for moral theories, for political and economic dogmas, for reforms (or opposition to them) in laws and manners, for social protests and revolutions and even for purely private enterprises, including the commercial and the amorous."
Getting elected must be among the less discreditable of those goals, but not even the naughtiest pundit these days is about to echo Mencken's opinion that in America, religion "is used as a club and a cloak by both politicians and moralists, all of them lusting for power and most of them palpable frauds."
All right, that's a broad-brush judgment, unfair and typically Mencken. But in these months of piety ascendant, with politicians and athletes and actors competing for heaven's support, it comes as a breath of refreshing irreverence. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; RELIGION AND CHURCHES POLITICS (91%); RELIGION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); CREATIONISM (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); WRITERS (71%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; MENCKEN, HENRY LOUIS (1880-1956) AL GORE (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



497 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 5; Circuits 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Job Site Is to Work On Line and Off

BYLINE: By LISA GUERNSEY 

 BODY:
AS any trend-tracking economist will tell you, most employees don't have jobs anymore; they have careers. Few people expect to use one set of skills for the rest of their lives. Fewer still expect to stick with one employer.
On-line job boards are paying attention. What began as simple databases of classified advertisements have been transformed into on-line career counselors, combining equal parts practical advice and training and dime-store psychology. 
 The latest entrant in this field is Brass Ring, based in New York. It announced yesterday that it would offer training tools, on-line and off-line career fairs, job listings, information and hiring software for companies to use to sort and manage the resumes that come their way.
What makes the company stand out from other job-board sites is its corporate pedigree. Brass Ring combines the resources of several companies: Kaplan Educational Centers, which runs career fairs and professional training centers; The Pavement, a Web site that offers career information for college graduates, and Hire Systems, a company that develops hiring-management software.
"This was built under the belief that the world will not work exclusively on line or off line," said Jonathan Grayer, Brass Ring's chairman and chief executive. "People lead fluid lives" that require a combination of person-to-person communication and on-line efficiency, he added.
Mr. Grayer envisions that once the Web site (www.brassring.com) is complete, it will be able to assist people with all career decisions.
For example, a computer programmer who is considering a career shift from C ++ programming to network administration could go to the site to determine what skills would be required and then take an on-line assessment. The site would provide test results, links to on-line training classes, job searches and resume services. Job seekers can even meet potential employers on line before sealing the deal at sponsored job fairs.
Marissa Gluck, an analyst at Jupiter Communications, said that other sites were also trying to add training options or combine services for employers and employees. But Brass Ring has the benefit of a large cash infusion from its corporate investors, which most other sites are missing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERS; HIRE SYSTEMS KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERS; HIRE SYSTEMS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); WEB BASED TRAINING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (74%); C++ PROGRAMMING (74%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%); 

PERSON: GUERNSEY, LISA JONATHAN GRAYER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



498 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: O Spacious Skies, With Nary a Power Pole in Sight

BYLINE: By FRED BERNSTEIN 

DATELINE: TONOPAH, Ariz.

 BODY:
FROM the highway, it is six miles to Brenda Black's house, along a dusty road through boulders and saguaro cactus. For the first four miles, a power line parallels the road. But then the necklace of wooden poles and black cables -- the reassuring accompaniment to millions of miles of American highways -- ends. The house is still 1,000 feet away.
And yet, as a visitor discovered after pulling up next to the Honda and the Chevy Blazer in Ms. Black's driveway, she is not lacking for appliances. One of four television sets was on; so was the "movie star lighting" over the bathroom sink. The kitchen boasted not only a microwave oven, but also an electric grill. Indeed, Ms. Black's house in Tonopah, some 60 miles west of Phoenix, is typically American, which means it is jammed with stuff. 
 In Arizona, it is becoming easy for ordinary families to live "off the grid" -- that is, without a hookup to electric lines -- and not sacrifice comfort. For $270 a month (about $1 a kilowatt hour), Arizona Public Service will install a backyard unit consisting of solar panels that produce enough power for most domestic uses, a generator that kicks in automatically when there isn't enough sun, and a propane tank to fuel the generator. The company guarantees the equipment, promising that it will keep power flowing around the clock.
"I've had them out here in the middle of the night," Ms. Black said.
A result? "It's solar power for the fast-food generation," said Katy Hundelt, an off-grid customer near Sedona. "If we didn't tell you, you'd come in the house and never know we had solar," she said. "We have everything everyone else has."
Indeed, living off the grid, an option that was once available only to the rich or the intrepid, is going mainstream, at least in this sunniest corner of the country. Arizona Public Service has yet to advertise the program. Even so, Pete Johnston, the company's manager for technology development, said, "It's taking off." There are now 30 families hooked up, he said, and "we're adding at least one a month."
To be sure, solar systems have been available for decades. Dan Reicher, the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, said, "A surprising number of companies make, supply and even finance solar systems," although he added that the majority of such systems augment company-provided power.
Arizona Public Service has big hopes for its off-grid program. "There are a lot of people moving from California to Arizona, people with a fair amount of money," Mr. Johnston said. "They want to build on dramatic sites. And until now, their only options were propane generators or do-it-yourself solar."
The workers who developed the no-fuss system see themselves as environmentalists. And in trying to limit reliance on fossil fuels, they are.
Yet, the program may prove to have an environmental downside, as new homes, untethered to power lines, turn up in some of the state's most pristine locations. Ms. Hundelt's house occupies just such a spot. "We've got a whole mountain for a backdrop," she said.
Vern Swaback, a Scottsdale architect responsible for some of the largest suburban developments in Arizona, said that everyone there has had the experience of discovering that a favorite mountaintop or butte is suddenly dotted with buildings. "Too often," he said, "people are under the illusion that what they're looking at is preserved open space, when it's just land that people haven't gotten around to using."
Anne Verner, an off-grid customer outside Prescott, in northern Arizona, worries that "the open land may get chopped up."
William Riebsame, a professor at the University of Colorado who studies land-use patterns in the West, said the 90's have seen an explosion of home building in remote areas, where obtaining electricity is often a challenge. In Arizona, hooking up can cost $50,000 or more -- sometimes much more -- for each mile off the grid. Most off-grid customers, said Herb Hayden, the program's coordinator, are more than half a mile from the nearest power line.
"Independence from the grid, with reliable power for everything from family entertainment centers to pool and spa pumps, would be a further enabling force for even more rural and near-wilderness development," Mr. Riebsame said.
Mr. Reicher, the Assistant Secretary of Energy, disagreed, noting that for most people, the costs of building roads and bringing in water are even more daunting. "I don't see solar as a big factor in where people decide to build," he said. Moreover, he noted that state and local laws on land development were the traditional way to control land use.
In Bisbee, a small mining town in the southeast part of the state, a California company is turning a canyon lined with cholla, agave, cottonwood, yucca and pinyon into a development called Bisbee Ranch. The land, which has been described as "national park quality," had not been developed, in part because bringing in electricity was prohibitively expensive. That was before Arizona Public Service made a deal with the developer to provide the off-grid system to those who will buy the 60 40-acre plots.
The other utility -- telephone service -- ceased being a stumbling block when cellular technology came in. (Even in cell-less areas, radiotelephones work fine, as the reporter interviewing homeowners for this article found out.) Wireless Internet connections will be next.
No wonder the developer of Bisbee Ranch, Joe Pinsonneault, said of the off-grid system: "This seems to be the ticket to the future. It's really the millennium system."
He may not be far off. It has been about a century since electrification came to America, with the resulting patterns of habitation, where even rural houses were built in proximity to the grid. Now, the off-grid system, at least in the Sun Belt, could result in a new development model.
The technology the off-grid customers are using isn't especially new. Photovoltaic panels capable of powering a house (at least in the Southwest) have been around for decades. Prices have been dropping steadily. Assistant Secretary Reicher said that in 1980, the cost of producing a kilowatt hour with photovoltaic cells was about $1; now it's down to about 15 or 20 cents in some cases. (That compares to an average cost of about 9 cents a kilowatt hour for power from the local utility.) "It's a wonderful technology," he said, "with no moving parts."
Until now, a family hoping to rely on solar power had to do its homework. The Real Goods Trading Company, a leading purveyor of residential solar generators, markets systems similar to those offered by Arizona Public Service. But they start at $5,000, and $17,000 is about the lowest price for a unit that will handle "problem loads" like a laser printer or an adjustable-speed ceiling fan, the company says. Plus, as Real Goods warns in its Internet catalogue, its kits "require substantial time, expertise and small parts to install on site."
It is true that the off-grid system is more expensive than a conventional hookup (the average residential electric bill in Arizona is $92 a month), but it's much less expensive than bringing in a power line. Other options -- including wind turbines and hydrogen-powered fuel cells -- are not yet economical enough for residential use, said Doug Livingston, the technical products merchandise manager for Real Goods.
Generators are more affordable, but they tend to be problematic. Ms. Verner, the off-grid customer near Prescott, made do with a diesel generator on her family's cattle ranch for almost 20 years. The equipment was smelly and expensive, she said, and the power wasn't steady enough for a computer. Now, her teen-age children have no problem doing their homework on the family's PC.
And in the old days, she said, "I had to wait till nighttime to do wash" when there were fewer demands for power. "Now," she added, "from about 10 till 3, I have electricity coming out of my ears."
Arizona Public Service's off-grid customers generally do not have air-conditioners, but they do have energy-efficient evaporative coolers. Otherwise, normal appliances are O.K. The company recommends using mainly fluorescent lights.
In Tonopah, Ms. Black has noticed that if she leaves the microwave on too long, the back-up generator kicks in, consuming propane. So if she has to cook for six minutes, she may do it in three two-minute stretches.
But that's her biggest problem with the off-grid system, which is why Ms. Black is the envy of neighbors who haven't yet signed up. "Some of the other people who live out here, they've just got generators," she said. "And when the generator breaks, they've got nothing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: TAKING THE HEAT -- The Hundelt house, left, near Sedona, Ariz., is off the power grid. Above, two types of solar panels being tested. (Arizona Public Service; Fred Bernstein (two at right))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEDONA, AZ, USA (71%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (96%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEDONA, AZ, USA (71%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SOLAR ENERGY SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); PROPANE (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, FRED BRENDA BLACK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



499 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
I.M.F. Global Forecast Is Mostly Upbeat

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Declaring that global economic conditions have "improved markedly," the International Monetary Fund released a generally upbeat forecast today for economic prospects for the world through the year 2000.
But I.M.F. officials warned that unforeseen shocks, such as a sudden plunge in America's highflying stock market or a steep drop in the value of the dollar, could disrupt the new-found optimism. 
 Citing a stronger-than-expected American economy and more vigorous and quicker rebounds in Asia than previously expected, the I.M.F. predicted that the global economy would grow by 3 percent this year -- up from a forecast of 2.3 percent in May -- and predicted an even better 3.5 percent rate next year, up from 3.4 percent in May.
The I.M.F. forecast predicted that the gross domestic product in the United States would increase by 3.7 percent this year before slowing to 2.6 percent in 2000, numbers that would fit a hoped-for "soft landing" in which interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve slow growth enough to prevent inflation without causing a recession.
Michael Mussa, the fund's chief economist, said the I.M.F. was making its forecast for next year "with increasing confidence." Among the reasons he cited were: "a clear end to the recession" in Japan, the world's second-largest economy, and shallower-than-expected recessions in Brazil and Russia. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BONDS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



500 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Fed Report Says Economy Keeps Expanding

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
The United States economy is expanding at a brisk pace with tight labor markets and few price pressures, the Federal Reserve said today.
The Fed's latest regional economic survey, which is commonly known as the beige book, cited rising retail sales and accelerating business at the nation's factories as evidence that the economy is not slowing much as the expansion, now almost nine years old, stays on track to set a record for longevity early next year. 
 "All district economies continue to exhibit overall strength, with most experiencing moderate-to-brisk rates of growth," the Fed report said.
Consumer spending is strong, with most districts reporting that retail sales are rising from their levels a year ago, the report said. "Retail sales are generally up in most districts," the Fed said. "Industrial activity is on the rise in most parts of the country, with orders and production both up."
Even so, the survey said, "price pressures at the consumer level remain mostly calm," adding that "where they are apparent, they are categorized as temperate."
Price pressures at the wholesale level, however, do appear to be "somewhat greater," the Fed said, with "numerous districts reporting significant increases in some materials prices" and manufacturers reporting higher raw material costs.
Around the country the demand "continues to outstrip the readily available supply of labor in most areas," the report said. Retailers and manufacturers reported problems finding workers, though "several districts have noted a slackening in the demand for labor," it said.
In all, "there are few reports of acceleration in nominal wages and salaries," the report said, though several banks reported increases in the employer costs of health care benefits.
The latest edition of the beige book was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Information was gathered before Sept. 13.
Today's report will help form the basis for discussion on the target interest rate on overnight loans between banks at the Oct. 5 meeting of the Fed's policy-setting panel, the Federal Open Market Committee.
"Wages and prices are the focus now," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York, who does not expect a rate increase next month. "The Fed wants to see whether companies are able to raise prices because they need to offset higher wages."
At its last meeting, Aug. 24, the Open Market Committee voted to raise the overnight bank lending rate -- the Federal funds rate -- by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent, the second increase in two months. The central bankers said then that with global growth rebounding and United States labor markets remaining very tight, the economy no longer needed additional stimulus.
The increase in the Federal funds rate "should markedly diminish the risk of rising inflation going forward," the committee members said in a statement. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (65%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



501 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Nielsen Joining Internet Venture

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Sept. 22

 BODY:
The A. C. Nielsen Corporation, the world's leading market researcher, said today that it would buy 10 percent of Netratings Inc. for $12.5 million as the companies form a joint venture to measure Internet audiences worldwide.
The venture, to be called A. C. Nielsen Erating.com, will measure on-line audiences in Europe, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. 
 Nielsen, which measures television viewing in countries outside the United States and Canada, said it and Netratings would spend $50 million in the next two years to establish the on-line service. The company is looking to capture the measuring business overseas, where Internet use is growing faster in some countries than it is in the United States.
Nielsen will own 80 percent of the venture, while Netratings will own 20 percent.
A. C. Nielsen was spun off from the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation in late 1996. Nielsen Media Research Inc., which also was spun off from Dun & Bradstreet, provides ratings data in the United States and Canada. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (95%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (95%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (91%); CANADA (87%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NETRATINGS INC; NIELSEN, A C, CO; NIELSEN, A C, ERATING.COM NETRATINGS INC (95%); A C NIELSEN SA (92%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (83%); DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NETRATINGS INC; NIELSEN, A C, CO; NIELSEN, A C, ERATING.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; MIDDLE EAST; AFRICA; UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (91%); CANADA (87%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); JOINT VENTURES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



502 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
Yen Continues Its Rally Against the Dollar

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Japanese yen strengthened yesterday for a third consecutive session, extending its gains against the dollar amid signs that Japan and its allies would take no immediate action to curb the currency's rise.
On Tuesday, the Bank of Japan voted to leave monetary policy unchanged. The decision has bolstered expectations that the Group of Seven industrial nations, whose finance officials meet this weekend in Washington, will not join with Japan in a cooperative effort to sell yen. 
 "The perception of the G-7 is that they're not going to do anything definitive on the yen," said Anne Parker Mills, senior currency economist with Brown Brothers Harriman & Company.
Demand for yen was strong yesterday even after Japanese stocks fell 3.4 percent, as measured by the benchmark Nikkei index. The yen strengthened to 103.77 yen to the dollar, before paring gains as United States stocks recovered from early losses.
In New York, the dollar settled at 103.93 yen, down from 104.9 yen on Tuesday. Trading may be muted today, with Japanese markets closed for a national holiday, Autumnal Equinox Day.
So far this year, the yen is the best- performing currency against the dollar, up 9 percent. For the week, the yen is up 3 percent.
But the dollar gained against the euro and the British pound yesterday. The euro fell to $1.0448, from $1.0485 on Wednesday, and the pound fell to $1.6284, from $1.6311.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese Yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY EURO (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



503 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: The Quake Next Time

 BODY:
In October, world population will reach six billion, or just slightly less than double the population in 1960. That population increase has not been distributed evenly, of course. Humanity has crowded the coasts and clustered along the seams between tectonic plates. It has made itself uniquely susceptible to disaster.
Much was done in Taiwan to mitigate the effects of Tuesday's earthquake, thanks to good and apparently well-enforced building codes. But the simple proliferation of human beings dictated that thousands would die. In the United States we have been lucky, so far, that an economic toll from earthquakes is unmatched by a toll in human lives. 
 But such luck is not likely to continue forever. Even where the best technology is enforced by the most able bureaucracies, it seems inevitable that one day the mass of humans will outweigh the protective infrastructure. In the developed world, we have been absolved, to a striking degree, from the natural consequences of our numbers. But as the world population continues to grow, to push into crowded cities erected atop fault zones, to settle in flood plains and low-lying coastal areas, we will be forced to witness our own immensity in the immense casualties that follow upon disaster. We will have to recognize that some regions impose a harsh, inflexible limit to further population growth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; EDITORIALS; POPULATION POPULATION GROWTH (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



504 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Philip Brownstein, Federal Housing Advocate, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Philip N. Brownstein, a top Federal housing administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations who fought discrimination by builders and landlords and who expanded Depression-era housing laws to widen home ownership among minority groups, died on Friday in a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 82.
In 1963, Mr. Brownstein was named commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, which became part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development when the department was created in 1965. He continued to serve as F.H.A. commissioner and as Assistant Secretary for Housing in the new agency. Under his leadership, Federal housing policy broadened its reach to include previously forgotten groups. 
 Mr. Brownstein's influence persisted for 25 years after he left office for a private law practice.
At the Federal Housing Administration from 1963 to early 1969, Mr. Brownstein administered an agency created during the Depression to cope with bank foreclosures on homes. The agency insured mortgages, thus giving banks the confidence to buy them. The cost of the insurance, which was passed on to individual home buyers, ended up being a very small part of their monthly payments.
As a result of the original law, longer mortgages, of 30 and 40 years, began to be written, and the concept of home ownership was saved. But as the principal author of amendments to the original law, Mr. Brownstein strove to extend these benefits to blacks and other minority groups.
The new programs involved subsidized loans to minority members moving into white suburbs and urban slum areas. In such areas, Mr. Brownstein argued, lending institutions should abandon the "excessive caution" that he said had thwarted "restoration of the inner cities."
At his swearing in ceremony, William C. Apgar, the current housing commissioner, called Mr. Brownstein his model. "I said that I was honored to have a job he once held," Mr. Apgar said.
Richard Ravitch, who worked as a private developer with Mr. Brownstein in 1965 to develop a block in Harlem before holding several high positions in New York's state government, said one of Mr. Brownstein's major accomplishments was making sure insured home loans were more widely available "at probably the most prolific period for the creation of new housing."
Mr. Ravitch said Mr. Brownstein was also an indefatigable champion of New York City during its 1970's fiscal crisis when he worked to rewrite mortgages on which the city had defaulted. "It was worth hundreds of millions of dollars to the city as that time," Mr. Ravitch said.
Mr. Brownstein was born in the farming town of Ober, Ind., where his father was a shop owner.
While in high school, Mr. Brownstein was forced to put aside his law school ambitions after his father became ill. In 1934, he moved to Washington, D.C., and worked as an assistant truck driver at the Federal Housing Administration.
He graduated from George Washington University and received his law degree from Columbus University, which later became part of Catholic University. He also received a master's degree in law from Columbus.
During the Korean War, Mr. Brownstein served in the Marines in South Carolina. After the war, he joined the Veterans Administration, where he worked until 1963, administering the agency's housing loan program. In that job, he first urged financial institutions to consider human needs in lending decisions, saying this was the basic intention of the veterans' home loan program.
"The notice of intention to foreclose should not be given until it is determined that no amicable solution exists," he said in a speech to the Mortgage Bankers Association in 1949.
President John F. Kennedy appointed Mr. Brownstein commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration in 1963, and President Lyndon B. Johnson added the title of Assistant Secretary for Housing when HUD was created.
In those posts, in addition to pushing housing for the needy, Mr. Brownstein worked to prevent the waste of Federal money. In 1965, for example, he sent auditors to 100 low-rent projects after suspicions were raised that families earning more than the maximum were living there.
Although President Richard M. Nixon asked him to continue in his housing posts, Mr. Brownstein left the Government in 1969 to become a private lawyer. He specialized in housing cases for developers and others, but continued to be active in promoting affordable housing for the poor and middle-class. From 1969 to 1996, he was director of the National Housing Conference and was a director of the Center for Housing Policy from 1993 until his death.
"There wasn't a committee or working group he didn't volunteer to serve on," Mr. Apgar said.
In addition to his wife, Esther, Mr. Brownstein is survived by a son, Michael, of Rockville, Md., who is a research scientist and Laboratory Chief at the National Institutes of Health. Like his father, he has spent his career in the Federal Government. Three granddaughters also survive him.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip N. Brownstein (Associated Press, 1966) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (50%); FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); WRITERS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: BROWNSTEIN, PHILIP N; MARTIN, DOUGLAS JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



505 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: So Many Mannequins, So Little Time;
Saks Tries to Balance Tradition and Risk

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
In a fall window at Saks Fifth Avenue's flagship Manhattan store, a certain fashion dissonance was on display.
The background suggested a genteel Tuscany picnic -- replete with baskets of grapes, Chianti Ruffino in a straw bottle holder and denuded tree branches. It was a setting that the store's most loyal customer, a well-kept woman in her late 40's, might know well. 
 But the clothes seemed cut for another silhouette completely -- maybe a 20-something actress attending a post-movie-premiere party at the downtown nightclub Moomba. In one window, a mannequin posed noncommittally in Dolce & Gabbana hot magenta floral hip-huggers and electric-orange leopard print pinpoint heel pumps. In another, the mannequin lounged in a vinyl camisole with a 3-D print secured with Velcro straps.
"How'd that look on me, John?" joked a well-dressed tourist to her husband as the two ogled the display in early September. "I could wear it to the beach."
Last week Saks Fifth Avenue, the venerable clothier to the ladies who lunch, turned 75, but a placid old age is not in the cards. Even with America in the midst of a consumer spending boom, Saks Fifth Avenue -- along with Neiman Marcus, the other luxury department store chain -- is struggling to make the kind of profits Wall Street demands of retailers these days.
The secret to high-fashion success has always been finding the right balance between nurturing cutting-edge design and stocking enough money-making name brands to satisfy traditional customers. But for Saks today, under new and very bottom-line-oriented management, that balancing act has turned particularly precarious.
A year ago, Saks Holdings Inc. -- the store's owner -- was bought by Proffitt's, a fast-growing Southern retailer. And R. Brad Martin, the chief executive of Proffitt's -- since renamed Saks Inc. -- had lofty expectations for his catch. He had made his company an investor darling by gobbling up regional department store chains like McRae's, Younkers and Carson Pirie Scott, and then squeezing out big savings by consolidating mundane back-office functions like real estate and ordering office supplies.
But with earnings slumping, Mr. Martin "does not have unlimited patience," said Robert F. Buchanan, a retail analyst with A. G. Edwards, who met with him recently. "He is not going to stand by if the performance continues to lag -- he will make changes."
At the beginning of the year, Mr. Martin had predicted 6 percent growth in sales and nearly 35 percent growth in earnings. To investors worried that Saks Fifth Avenue, with its high concentration of couture brands like Bill Blass and Yves Saint Laurent, would not mesh well with the rest of his empire, Mr. Martin scoffed. And he said that all fashion decisions at the Saks Fifth Avenue chain would continue to be made by its impeccably groomed longtime chairman and chief executive, Philip B. Miller.
But in mid-August, Saks Inc., which is based in Birmingham, Ala., rocked Wall Street by lowering its earnings estimates for the year to $1.80 a share from $2.10. During calls with analysts, Mr. Martin admitted that roughly 8 cents, or about one-quarter of the shortfall, could be traced to lower margins from Saks Fifth Avenue, which now accounts for about 40 percent of Saks Inc.'s revenue. Analysts and investors responded by pounding the stock, which in February went as high as $39.50, sending it to a new low of $15.375 yesterday..
Did performance really suffer, or did Mr. Martin expect too much? Mr. Miller's blue eyes flashed with anger at the suggestion that Saks Fifth Avenue had lost its way. Ensconced in his paisley-wall-papered office, Mr. Miller insisted that sales growth was above that of the rest of Saks Inc., which will be about 4 percent for the year, and that he beat out other luxury merchants, notably Neiman Marcus, as well. "We have taken real market share from the competition," Mr. Miller said. "We may not have met expectations, but we certainly did not embarrass ourselves."
Still, designers who sell to the company, as well as analysts who cover it -- many of whom have had heart-to-wallet conversations with Mr. Martin recently -- see real trouble in the gap between Mr. Martin's expectations and the chain's performance.
Part of the problem seems to be that there was a general softening in the luxury market over the summer. While plenty of the highest-end merchants, like Gucci and Tiffany, have reported strong sales recently, Neiman Marcus Group Inc., Saks Fifth Avenue's most direct competitor, posted disastrous results last month. With anemic sales growth of less than 1 percent forcing Neiman Marcus to make steep markdowns, profits plunged 83 percent.
But Saks also faces the matter of getting the right merchandise mix. Some of this might be easily remedied. For example, analysts say Saks Fifth Avenue is still heavy on formal business clothing, particularly expensive men's suits like Hugo Boss and Brioni, while much of America has long since moved to casual workplace attire. Also, Saks Fifth Avenue's private-label clothing -- which Mr. Martin is counting on to lift profits in the future -- is still too expensive for its quality. Fine-gauge white T-shirts for men that might be a buy at $40 instead go for $78.
Most serious is the assertion by Wall Street that Saks Fifth Avenue cannot manage its high-end designer fashions. "In an effort to have a compelling assortment, things got away from them," and they went too far with riskier designs that did not sell, said Christine Kilton-Augustine, a retail and apparel analyst with ING Baring.
High-end designer apparel accounts for 15 percent of Saks Fifth Avenue's revenue and probably only about 6 or 7 percent of its profits, but it sets the tone for the entire store.
Established couture and career lines from Chanel, Max Mara and Prada have a devoted following at Saks. But while these big brands bring in a steady flow of revenue, that money comes with a lot of strings attached. Many of those brands have developed their own stores, which compete for business. Some do not allow Saks Fifth Avenue to display the entire collection, and many make demands about merchandising.
The latest styles from emerging designers like Alexander McQueen and Issey Miyake take up less space, but have the potential to play a more important role, attracting younger, more adventurous women. These customers may spend less on clothes but will purchase cosmetics, like the $75 lipsticks offered by the Saks house brand By Terry, or spend $150 for a faux diamond choker.
By supporting such brands when they are still relatively unknown, Saks also gambles on a richer payoff if they suddenly become popular. Executives are hoping for the next Dolce & Gabbana -- "the next big hit before it gets too big," explains Ike Lagnado of Tactical Retail Solutions Inc., a consulting firm in New York.
The problem is that small designers take a lot of effort, and money, to nurture, and they have unpredictable sales. Unlike the big brands, lesser-known names offer stores nothing in the way of support -- like advertising dollars or money back if sales fail to materialize -- so a bad season for enough small designers can have a serious impact on the bottom line. Analysts say that is exactly what happened at Saks Fifth Avenue this past year -- and that the new owners may not have the stomach for it.
It is hard for an outsider to discern to what extent emerging designers are in trouble at Saks Fifth Avenue -- everyone from the store to the designers, who have few other places to sell their goods, has a stake in painting a rosy picture -- but some troubling issues have emerged. Ellen Carey, who represents the Australian designer Collette Dinnigan in the United States, has only praise for Saks Fifth Avenue, which has put Ms. Dinnigan's designs in 12 stores. Mr. Miller has been tremendously supportive of the brand, she said, but added that the chain cannot give designers the intensely hands-on maintenance that a much smaller specialty store like Barney's offers.
"Saks has sophisticated owners and sophisticated shoppers, but the sales staff needs to be brought up to par," Ms. Carey said. She said Ms. Dinnigan has managed to sell roughly 60 percent of her collection at full price each season because she ships her entire collection at once, so that it is obvious how to display it. Other designers sometimes ship trousers one week and blouses another, leaving it to the store staff to assemble outfits for customers.
Several designer representatives were even more worried. They fault Saks Fifth Avenue not for lack of trying, but for being part of a discouraging cycle in luxury. For years midlevel, or "bridge," designer wear has been suffering because department stores, pressed to compete with discount and specialty stores, have been marking down such goods steeply. Now the same cycle is happening to luxury, which had previously been immune.
"They mark down very early, and don't give the merchandise the time to perform," one designer representative complained. "Last fall, our winter goods hit the floor in October, and by November they were on sale."
Sure enough, on an early-September afternoon, the markdown racks were overflowing. An Armani denim jacket had been slashed to $372 from $1,245, and a Chloe basket-weave skirt in royal blue was going for $600 off its list price of $1,050.
For now, Mr. Martin insists that he has no intention of meddling in Saks Fifth Avenue's designer business and that he has full confidence in the chain's luxury strategy. "I believe absolutely that this economic model can be profitable," he said. "Designer is at the heart of who we are and a key element of our future strategy."
Even so, Mr. Martin has already made back-office changes at Saks Inc. that could hurt the chain's ability to attract luxury customers. For example, he has cut its renovation budget by 20 percent -- a Saks spokesman said that the savings all came from efficiency moves, not cuts in projects -- and forced the retailer to reduce inventories.
Designers lament that they have already felt the impact of the merger and Saks Inc.'s overriding concern with profitability. Many say they are being forced to reach sales goals for full-price merchandise that would be difficult for one speciality store, let alone for a 59-store chain.
But Mr. Martin made no apologies for his determined approach. "We expect an extraordinary return on capital invested," he said, "and Saks Fifth Avenue's portfolio will give us that return."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The stock of Saks Inc. has dropped sharply this year, but Philip Miller, the president of the Saks Fifth Avenue unit, remains upbeat, saying, "We have taken real market share from the competition." (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. C25); Hurt by a general softening in the luxury market this summer, Saks is trying to introduce cutting-edge clothing, like the offering from Issey Miyake, above, without sacrificing its established couture and career lines. High-end designer apparel accounts for 15 percent of the stores' revenue but only about 6 or 7 percent of its profits. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Fifth Avenue Blues"
Since acquiring Saks Fifth Avenue last year, the fast-growing Southern retailer Proffitt's - now called Saks Inc. - has had trouble meeting Wall Street's expectations.
 
MARCH 17 -- Saks Inc. reports that earnings rose 26 percent in the 4th quarter, but warns it may not meet earnings estimates for 1999.
 
JULY 5 -- Proffitt's says it will buy Saks Fifth Avenue for $2.1 billion.
 
AUG. 18 -- Saks sharply lowers its earnings estimate for the year.
 
SEPT. 18 -- Proffitt's changes name to Saks Inc.
 
Graph compares proffitt's before Saks Fifth Avenue and after acquiring Saks Fifth Avenue.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PROFFITT'S INC; SAKS HOLDINGS INC SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (90%); SAKS INC (85%); SAKS HOLDINGS INC (65%); CARSON PIRIE SCOTT & CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROFFITT'S INC; SAKS HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); BRANDING (69%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE; MARTIN, R BRAD R BRAD MARTIN (90%); PHILIP B MILLER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



506 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Used to Chaos, Business Stays Put in Russia

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 22

 BODY:
In the last month, Russia has been through what people in other countries would call mayhem. A low-level war broke out on the southern border in Dagestan. Then came money-laundering investigations in the United States and Europe that have implicated high-ranking Kremlin officials. And in a two-week period, five terrorist bombings in Moscow and two other cities have left hundreds dead.
But to foreign businesses, especially those that have been in Russia for several years, upheaval seems to be part of the landscape. Despite all these disturbances, foreigners trading and manufacturing in Russia have decided to stay put. Portfolio investors in the Russian stock market have been more skittish, but few have sold their holdings. 
 "Business people here have seen a lot worse in Russia," said Charles Hecker, a specialist on the former Soviet Union with the Control Risks Group, a British corporate-security firm. "They've seen tanks in the streets in 1993, and they've survived. The foreigners who've been here a while are usually from pretty hardy stock."
If they were not, the foreign executives would have left long ago. In the last three years, the period when many corporations began expanding here, Russia has weathered a politically fraught presidential race, followed by similarly fraught presidential quintuple-bypass heart surgery. The nation's currency collapsed. Its Government defaulted on $40 billion of debt, half of it held by foreigners. Six Cabinets and four Prime Ministers have come and gone, the latest one, Vladimir V. Putin, beginning his tenure only in August.
Last year, Russia was ranked as one of the 10 worst places to do business by Transparency International, a Berlin-based anticorruption organization.
Most businesses in Russia had been in a holding pattern long before the recent events. The breakdown of the economy in August 1998 badly damaged investment, and as a rule, businesses are delaying any new projects until after the presidential elections next year.
Typically, the stock market is more sensitive to individual events than direct investors. The RTS Index, a stock benchmark, stood at 80.14 at the end of trading today, down 45 percent from the 52-week closing high of 147.37 on July 8.
Peter Boone, research chief for the Brunswick Warburg brokerage house here, attributed the decline to Western investors' nervousness about emerging markets in general.
But the market decline has deepened since the news of the bombings. And while hedge-fund investors have not sold their Russia holdings, few seem to be buying either.
The bombings have frightened foreigners much more than the financial scandals, even though the latter seem to have more to do with business. The accusations of money-laundering and suggestions of high-level corruption may be revelations to people outside Russia, but foreigners here reconciled themselves long ago to the murkiness of business and upper-echelon politics. "For those of us who are ground-level managers of businesses, this has made very little difference," said Eivind Djupedal, head of Cargill Enterprises in Russia. "The operating environment has never been easy here anyway."
Despite assurances by law enforcement that the bombers will be found and punished, few investors seem to believe that. "There's no confidence among people who know Russia well that the presidential administration or the Government can, or will, solve these problems," Mr. Boone said.
Instead, executives worry that the Kremlin could use the instability from the bombings and the money-laundering scandal to impose a state of emergency and cancel the presidential elections. It is widely believed that there are people in Boris N. Yeltsin's inner circle who fear facing prosecution when a new president comes to power and therefore have an interest in trying to persuade Mr. Yeltsin to halt the elections.
But the Government has been careful throughout the troubles to stress that elections will go forward.
Some businesses are willing to believe the official line until they see otherwise. "People are looking to elections and thinking, 'Will they go well or not?' " said Scott Blacklin, head of the American Chamber of Commerce. "That's what will determine what businesses will do in Russia."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Worst Places To Do Business"
An annual survey of businessmen rated these countries the most corrupt places to do business in 1998. A total of 85 countries were rated. Scores are on a scale of 10 (best) to 1 (worst).
 
Cameroon: 1.4
Paraguay: 1.5
Honduras: 1.7
Nigeria: 1.9
Tanzania: 1.9
Indonesia: 2.0
Colombia: 2.2
Ecuador: 2.3
Venezuela: 2.3
Russia; 2.4
 
(Source: Transparency International)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMEROON (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (ORGN) CONTROL RISKS GROUP (56%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (84%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (ORGN) TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (84%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMEROON (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING CORRUPTION (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); SCANDALS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TRENDS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); POLITICS (70%); BONDS (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



507 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Rebates could smooth the way for a Medicare reform plan.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein; This is Michael M. Weinstein's final Economic Scene column. He is returning to The Times' Editorial Board.

 BODY:
IS a flawed experiment in redesigning Medicare better than no experiment at all?
No, says Karen Ignagni, who represents managed care plans that are fighting to block demonstrations intended to foster competition. The problem, she says, is that the demonstrations, scheduled to begin in 2001, "leave out the Government's fee-for-service plan, tilting competition unfairly against private plans." 
 Len Nichols, an economist at the Urban Institute and a member of the committee of independent experts that designed the demonstrations, disagrees. He acknowledges that the proposed competition, at Congress's instruction, is far from ideal. But, he says, the demonstrations "can still yield invaluable lessons for Congress as it ponders a national fix of Medicare."
Private plans and physicians are lined up behind Ms. Ignagni. Economists line up behind Mr. Nichols. Congress is on the verge of siding with the industry, putting the demonstrations on hold. But Mr. Nichols thinks he has a way out of the impasse if Congress acts soon.
Congress ordered the Administration in 1997 to create demonstrations to test ways to make Medicare competitive. The competition that already exists between private managed care plans and the Government's fee-for-service plan is crimped because the Government decides how much to pay private plans. Sometimes it pays too little, driving private plans out of local markets. Sometimes it pays too much, creating waste at taxpayer expense. The demonstrations would use market forces to reveal the right price rather than letting the Government flail about for the right price.
Congress prohibited the committee from subjecting the Government-run plan to competition. That, says Ms. Ignagni, "means that private plans will be paid less than the Government plan, forcing the private plans to crimp on benefits while the Government plan goes unscathed."
"That's unfair competition," she said.
That is no doubt true. The issue that separates Mr. Nichols from Ms. Ignagni is whether the flaw is fatal.
The committee chose Phoenix and Kansas City as the first two demonstration sites. Political opposition exploded. In many regions, the cost of fee-for-service medicine is sky high because doctors are in the habit of prescribing costly drugs, tests and procedures. In these high-cost regions, the Government automatically dishes out more money to private plans. The plans use the revenue windfall to draw the elderly away from the Government plan by offering them additional benefits, like drug coverage and low co-payments.
The plans are delighted with the cozy arrangement. So, too, are their physicians and patients. But the plans are understandably petrified by competitive bidding, flawed or otherwise. Once firms are driven to compete for business by setting low premiums, the largess under the current system could evaporate. The committee's goal is to reduce premiums to a level sufficient to cover guaranteed benefits and not a penny more. That is Ms. Ignagni's worst nightmare.
Mr. Nichols provides a powerful rejoinder to Ms. Ignagni. The demonstrations, he said, "can still reveal how to create vigorous competition among plans and provide an inkling about potential savings from competition." He compares the demonstration to the methods used by major employers to control health care costs. "Take a General Motors that decides to add managed care to its fee-for-service offering," Mr. Nichols said. "It would not think to tie payments to managed care plans to the bloated costs of running fee-for-service. Instead, it would solicit bids. That is what the demonstration proposes to do."
But Mr. Nichols acknowledges that under current law, private plans have too few tools to attract enrollees. Toward that end, the committee met last week and decided to ask Congress to allow plans to offer rebates -- in the form of lower monthly Medicare premiums. Rebates can provide powerful recruiting tools and perhaps give beneficiaries in demonstration sites something tangible if the demonstrations go forward. That could dissolve some of the opposition.
The notion of providing rebates to enrollees who choose low-cost private plans is hardly heretical. It lies at the heart of President Clinton's plan as well as the plan proposed by Senator John Breaux of Louisiana and Representative Bill Thomas of California. The prominence of those plans might soften Congressional opposition to the idea.
It is ludicrous for Congress to overhaul Medicare without first testing its ideas. Yet it looks increasingly clear that political opposition from vested interests will continue to block demonstrations. Last week's initiative by the committee offers a way to convince beneficiaries to become allies rather than opponents of reform. If so, then the Congressional delegations from Phoenix and other demonstration sites might turn a tad less resistant to a first, important step in redesigning Medicare.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: URBAN INSTITUTE URBAN INSTITUTE (83%); URBAN INSTITUTE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE URBAN INSTITUTE (83%); URBAN INSTITUTE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REBATES; MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION MEDICARE (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (84%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; IGNAGNI, KAREN; NICHOLS, LEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BREAUX, JOHN (SEN); THOMAS, BILL (REPR) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



508 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Technology Shares Lift Nasdaq, but Dow Falls 74 Points

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
High-technology stocks powered the Nasdaq composite index higher yesterday, but the Dow Jones industrial average was down as investors sorted through a confusing barrage of information and rumor.
Some expressed fears that the dollar would skid further against the yen, while others focused on a reassuring economic survey by the Federal Reserve or on a partial rebound by the Dow Jones industrial average after it fell to about 10,500. 
 "There's concern about money leaving our markets and going abroad," said Tim Woolston, a portfolio manager at Boston Advisors, referring to the consequences of the dollar's fall on foreign exchange markets.
The Dow closed at 10,524.07, a loss of 74.40 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent.
Twenty of the 30 Dow components lost ground, with Union Carbide, Procter & Gamble, United Technologies and I.B.M. each down around 2 points.
"We just haven't gone down enough to turn the buyers on," said Alfred Goldman of A. G. Edwards.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.93 points, or slightly more than two-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,310.51. But much of its strength was in the high-technology sector. The broader malaise was reflected by a decline by a majority of index stocks, 255, while 225 rose and 20 were unchanged.
Over the longer term, there has been "an extremely broad-based pullback," said Timothy M. Stevenson, a senior portfolio manager at First Capital Group. More than half the S.& P. 500 companies show declines for 1999, he said.
According to a tabulation by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, more than 3,700 New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq stocks have shown an average decline, unweighted by capitalization, of 24 percent from their 52-week highs, producing what some are calling a "stealth" bear market.
The bright spot yesterday was the Nasdaq composite index, which climbed 37.06 points, or 1.31 percent, to 2,858.16.
A better-than-expected profit report Tuesday by the 3Com Corporation, the most active issue yesterday, helped send its shares up 1 5/16, to 28 5/8, and set a good tone for the computer-related sector. Microsoft rose 1 7/16, to 96 1/16; Qualcomm gained 7 13/16, to 190 1/8; Yahoo jumped 9 15/16, to 179 1/2; Ebay climbed 8 1/2, to 149 1/8, and America Online, 6 1/8, to 91.
Turnover on the Big Board swelled to 822.2 million from 785.3 million Tuesday as new 52-week lows swamped highs by 262 to 23. Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones, 1,711 to 1,248.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bonds Little Changed
 (By Reuters)
 Treasury securities, after barely budging for most of the day, ended marginally higher yesterday, with the price of the benchmark 30-year bond up 2/32, to 100 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 6.08 percent from 6.09 percent on Tuesday.
"There is nothing to motivate anybody," said Kevin Logan, senior market economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson North America L.L.C. Volume was very light and well below average at $41 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (64%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); UTX (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (64%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); AOL INC (51%); QUALCOMM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



509 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Say Miami Defrauded Bondholders

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
The City of Miami, already besieged by scandals involving election-law violations and political corruption, was accused by Federal regulators yesterday of defrauding its bondholders by deliberately concealing a financial crisis that engulfed city government in 1995.
The accusation, which the city denies, was contained in an administrative complaint filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission against the city and two former city officials. 
 The regulators said the city's misleading actions affected the sale of $116.5 million in tax-exempt bonds issued in 1995 to finance pensions, sewer construction and a public building project. The commission is arguing, in effect, that the bond market might have demanded a higher interest rate or greater protections if it had known the true state of the city's finances.
The risk to bondholders is unclear because the case may affect Miami's overall credit rating, which can influence the prices at which bonds trade in the market.
The commission, while not seeking any monetary penalties, is asking an administrative law judge to find the city at fault and require accurate reports on its finances in the future.
The case is the latest skirmish in a five-year campaign by the commission to force cities, counties and other municipal bond issuers to keep investors informed about significant changes in their financial health, just as publicly traded corporations are required to do, said John C. Mattimore, the assistant regional director in the commission's office in Miami. Such cases have been filed against Orange County, Calif., Maricopa County, Ariz., Syracuse, N.Y., and several small towns in Mississippi.
The Miami case is likely to be closely watched by local officials across the country because, if it is successful, it will expand the traditional limits of the Federal regulators' jurisdiction in the municipal bond market.
Like the earlier cases, the Miami complaint accused the city of issuing misleading bond documents in connection with the sale of specific bond issues. But in this case, the city is also accused of providing inaccurate financial statements to investors months after the bonds were sold.
Such subsequent reports have not been cited in earlier cases, said William R. Baker, an associate director of the security commission's enforcement division.
"Although such statements are not required by any S.E.C. rule or regulation, what we are saying in this case is that whatever you decide to disclose must be truthful," Mr. Baker said.
Specifically, the commission has accused the city of failing to disclose publicly that its cash flow had precipitously declined after the close of its 1994 fiscal year, raising the possibility that it would not be able to cover its operating expenses and pay the interest on its outstanding bonds during the 1995 fiscal year.
Miami is fighting the charges. Thomas Tew, a lawyer for the city, said Miami officials fully discussed the 1995 budget problems to its auditors, Deloitte & Touche, and followed Deloitte's advice in preparing its financial reports.
"We do not believe that we violated the securities laws," Mr. Tew said. "We relied upon our auditors."
Ellen Ringel, a spokeswoman for Deloitte, said the firm had cooperated fully with the regulators. A ruling in favor of the commission "should put an end to the city's claim that it was unaware of its true financial condition, and to its efforts to shift responsibility to others," she added.
For Miami, the complaint is the latest in a long series of corruption cases. In the past six years, state charges have been filed against at least 270 public employees, as the city has wrestled with hectic growth, ethnic divisions and drug-dominated crime problems.
The other defendants in the S.E.C. case include the city's former city manager and its former director of finance, who deny any wrongdoing. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (80%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (80%); DELOITTE LLP (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BONDS (93%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ACCOUNTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); POLITICS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); JUDGES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



510 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Taiwan Quake Toll Mounts As Search Efforts Continue
The death toll from Tuesday's earthquake in Taiwan has risen past 2,000, with another 6,500 people injured and 2,300 believed still trapped in the rubble, the Government said. Hundreds of thousands are homeless and many communities in north and central Taiwan are still without power. A6
 
China Leaders Affirm Overhaul
A four-day meeting of the Communist Party's top leaders reaffirmed a commitment to reorganizing state-owned enterprises and making them globally competitive. The Central Committee also gave Vice President Hu Jintao, above, a new position as vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, strengthening the impression that he is President Jiang Zemin's choice as successor. A12 

Israeli Visits Nazi Camp
Prime Minister Ehud Barak, visiting Germany, toured the site of the Sachsenhausen death camp with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. A3
 
Heightened Alarm Over Hamas
Two bombs that exploded prematurely in Israel and Jordan's arrest of three Hamas leaders renewed attention on threats posed by the militant Islamic movement. A7
 
Tension in Timor Delays Aid
Concerns about security are delaying the start of an aid program to help East Timorese refugees in urgent need of food, shelter and medical care, aid workers said. A4
 
Objections to U.N. Intervention
Secretary General Kofi Annan's call for more active intervention by the United Nations when civilian populations are at risk is meeting resistance in the General Assembly. A5
 
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said Congress's unwillingness to pay arrears to the United Nations had hampered Administration efforts to sway the organization. A13
 
Anti-Milosevic Protests Falter
Street protests intended to oust President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia appeared to falter on their second day. A11
 
Bank Official Testifies
The chairman of the Bank of New York said suspicious activity in accounts at the core of the Russian money-laundering inquiry had not been stopped because the accounts were held by the husband of a highly regarded bank officer. A8
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
U.S. Accuses Big Tobacco Of Conspiracy on Smoking
The Justice Department closed a criminal investigation of the tobacco industry and instead filed a civil lawsuit accusing the largest cigarette companies of conspiring since the 1950's to defraud and mislead the public about the health effects of smoking. The suit seeks to recover billions that the Government spent on smoking-related health care. A1
 
Espionage Inquiry Widened
Attorney General Janet Reno and the F.B.I. Director, Louis J. Freeh, left, have ordered Federal agents to broaden their investigation into evidence of Chinese nuclear espionage, moving beyond scrutiny of Wen Ho Lee, a scientist fired from Los Alamos National Laboratory. A1
 
Deal to Delay New Fighter
Congressional negotiators said they had sketched out a deal to delay for a year the Air Force's $70 billion F-22 fighter jet program. A24
 
Assessing Year 2000 Risk
The United States is largely prepared for Year 2000 computer problems, although concerns remain in some areas, a Senate panel said. A22
 
McCain Assails Buchanan
Senator John McCain denounced Patrick J. Buchanan's views of World War II and called on Republicans to bid him farewell. A24
 
An Internet Scheme
Investigators said a Portuguese hacker and an Australian pornography company had devised a scheme to hold hostage Internet users who were tricked into visiting pornography sites. The only escape was to quit the Net or turn off the computer. A1
 
Sweepstakes Lawsuit
Florida's Attorney General filed a suit accusing Publishers Clearing House of deceptive practices. A18
 
S.E.C. Complaint Against Miami
The City of Miami was accused by Federal regulators of defrauding its bondholders by deliberately concealing a 1995 financial crisis. A18
 
Muscular Dystrophy Research
Scientists said they had made bone marrow cells turn into muscle, causing mice with the disease to produce correctly working muscle cells. A19
 
Country Music's Big Night
Shania Twain and the Dixie Chicks were big winners at the Country Music Association Awards. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
Art Exhibit Incites Mayor To Warn Brooklyn Museum
Mayor Giuliani threatened to cut off city subsidies to the Brooklyn Museum of Art unless it canceled the opening next week of a British exhibition that features, among other works, a portrait of the Virgin Mary stained with a clump of elephant dung. The city gives the museum nearly one-third of its $23 million annual budget. A1
 
State Budget Criticized
A number of fiscal experts said that despite a continuing economic boom that has left most states in their best financial shape in decades, New York's new budget actually worsens the state's long-term outlook. B1
 
City Hailed for Traffic Safety
New York will share honors with Mendota, Ill., population 7,100, as a recipient of an A.A.A. award for traffic safety based on pedestrian fatalities, seat belt use, biking accidents and drunken driving. B1
 
Deadly Street Attack by Group
Two men were shot to death and two others were seriously wounded when they were attacked by as many as 12 men on a relatively quiet side street in the East 20's in Manhattan, the police said. B3
 
Muslim Ex-Cadets Cite Bias
More than 20 Muslim cadets from the Middle East resigned from the State University of New York's Maritime College in the Bronx, saying they had been subjected to demeaning treatment and, in two cases, physical attack by other cadets. B4
 
Water Fears in New Jersey
About 1.2 million people in northern New Jersey were urged to boil their tap water for a fifth straight day because of persistent flood-related problems at two major treatment plants. B5
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A27
 
ARTS E1-10
 
New Warrant for Artwork
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan obtained a seizure warrant for one of the two Egon Schiele paintings that a New York court had just authorized to be returned to Austria. The painting, "Portrait of Wally," which was stolen by the Nazis, is now the subject of an ownership dispute. E2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
Personal Conflict Reshapes Lab
Interval Research, a pioneering Silicon Valley laboratory, is undergoing a major change of direction as a result of fundamental differences between David E. Liddle, the computer scientist who founded it seven years ago, and Paul Allen, the Microsoft co-founder who financed it. C1
 
Changing Stock Price Format
The Securities Industry Association said it would ask securities regulators to approve a three-phase process for converting stock prices to decimals from fractions beginning July 3 with a one-month pilot test involving about 40 securities. C8
 
Stocks Close Mixed
The Dow closed down 74.40 points, at 10,524.07, but the S.& P. 500 eked out a gain of 2.93 points, to 1,310.51, and the Nasdaq climbed 37.06 points, or 1.31 percent, to 2,858.16. C12
 
Setback for Taiwan Industry
Industrial disruption from the earthquake could delay or cut production of a wide range of high-technology items in Taiwan, a leading maker of chips and personal computers. C4
 
United Technologies Cutbacks
The conglomerate said it would cut its worldwide work force by 14,500 jobs, or about 10 percent of its 142,500 employees, as it wrestles with a continuing decline in the aerospace portion of its business. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-22
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Tobacco becomes a Federal case; the clemency controversy; bashing John McCain; the quake next time.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E7
 
TV Listings E10
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather D8
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (95%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%); HAMAS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (95%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EARTHQUAKES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONSPIRACY (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); SMOKING (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); HOLOCAUST (73%); HAMAS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); REFUGEES (67%); TOBACCO MFG (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); EVIDENCE (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (71%); EHUD BARAK (53%); GERHARD SCHRODER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



511 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL;
A Quarterback With the Drive to Succeed

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE 

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., Sept. 22

 BODY:
On the printed page, the game-winning drive looks neat and clean: 10 passes, 10 completions for quarterback James Perry to lead Brown to a 25-24 victory over Yale in the Ivy League opener last Saturday. But on the field, and on the videotape, the march and its immediate aftermath is a wacky pastiche of skill, luck, nerve, danger, hubris and comedy that reminds a football fan of how exciting this regimented sport can be when things get frantic.
Perry, a senior from Andover, Mass., passed for 379 yards against Yale to raise his career total to 6,418. That puts him 1,431 behind John Witkowski, who set the Ivy League record of 7,849 with Columbia from 1981 through 1983. The Bears, a contender for the conference title, play their home opener on Saturday against Lafayette of the Patriot League. Should Perry continue to pass at this pace, he would approach the league record late in the 10-game season. 
 But it will be difficult for any game to duplicate last Saturday's drama at the Yale Bowl, when Perry's 38 completions set a school record, when the winning drive displayed his poise and resilience under pressure. Perry had already thrown two touchdown passes when Brown got the ball at its 37-yard line with 3 minutes 32 seconds left and trailing by 7 points. Six consecutive completions moved it to the Yale 20. Turning his head both ways and shouting signals from the shotgun formation, Perry was surprised by an object hitting his knee. It was the football, snapped accidentally. He recovered it for a loss of 5 yards and called a timeout.
"Miscommunication," Perry said. "I was talking to the receivers."
After another completion moved the ball to the Yale 16, Perry rolled out to the right but was slammed from behind by a blow to the head from a Yale tackler. He fumbled the ball, but an official's blown whistle prevented a turnover. Perry called another timeout to clear his head and talk with his coach, Phil Estes.
"A little head whip," Perry said of the tackle. "They hit hard. Give them credit for that."
Two more completions brought the ball to the Yale 7, fourth down and 1 yard to go, the clock ticking from 30 seconds to 25 seconds to 20 seconds, the crowd of 17,398 roaring. Under heavy pursuit, Perry drifted to the right and flicked a short forward pass with the underhanded motion of an office worker throwing a paper wad into a waste basket. David Brookman, a tight end, caught the ball between two defenders and ran into the end zone to reduce the deficit to 1 point with 14 seconds left.
"Kind of off balance, a little flip," Perry said. "Sometimes you just throw it any way you can." Afterward, Brookman said to him: "Holy cow! Where did you throw that one from?"
Then things got really crazy. Kneeling in place-kick formation, Perry caught the snap and held the ball for the extra-point attempt to tie the game. The kick was blocked, saving Yale's lead. "I thought, 'Oh, geez,' " Perry said. But Brown's Michael Powell grabbed the loose ball and ran to the right. As several Yale tacklers surrounded Powell, he pitched an ad-lib option pass to Rob Scholl, a fullback, who carried it over the goal line for a 2-point conversion and a 1-point Brown lead.
Then it got even crazier.
Thinking the game was over, some Brown players began a celebration that included the taunting of some Yale players. The officials called not one but two penalties. Instead of kicking off from its 35, Brown kicked off from its 10. Yale moved the ball to the Brown 30, and with six seconds left, with the wind favorable, Yale tried a 47-yard field goal that would have won the game.
Happily for Perry and the Bears, the kick fell short. The game ended in a Brown victory, a lesson learned and confidence gained from experience. "We've done two-minute drills four times and scored on all four," Perry said. "It's strange. We're pretty experienced at it. It's weird. I don't have time to be nervous."
He is the son of two schoolteachers, the youngest of seven children, five of them boys. "I got a lot of practice in listening," Perry said. One brother was a quarterback at Harvard, another an assistant coach at Brown. Perry is majoring in economics and taking premed courses.
In terms of professional football potential, Perry's biggest drawback could be his size. At 6 feet 1 inch and 200 pounds, he is smaller than some, but not all, National Football League quarterbacks. "He's like Doug Flutie in the way that people underestimate his size and they say he doesn't have a strong arm," said Estes, who noted that N.F.L. scouts have inquired about Perry. "James Perry just makes plays. He's a very instinctive quarterback. He sees the field so well."
Perry would like the opportunity to play professionally, although he is not overconfident. "Lots of times, at Ivy League schools, they don't even think you have any chance," he said. "I'd love to play. I'll do everything I can. But, if I don't play, I've had the best of both worlds here at Brown, a great time and a good education."
Some Ivy quarterbacks have reached the N.F.L. recently, including Princeton's Jason Garrett at Dallas and Dartmouth's Jay Fiedler at Minnesota. Sean Morey, Perry's top receiver last season, now plays for the New England Patriots.
If he does not play professional football, Perry said he might want to become a general practitioner, specializing in family medicine. "They are in dire need of a more personal touch," he said of general practitioners. "My nature would be good for that."
Perry learned medicine firsthand last season, when a knee injury reduced his mobility. Off-season surgery repaired the damage and restored his ability to move and make things happen, some of them very entertaining.
"It feels good to run around again," Perry said. "I love to run. We pass a lot. We'll keep getting better. I'm very fortunate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brown quarterback James Perry (9), in action against Yale last Saturday, has the Ivy League career passing yardage record in sight. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROWN UNIVERSITY BROWN UNIVERSITY (92%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (92%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); CHICAGO BEARS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY BROWN UNIVERSITY (92%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (92%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); CHICAGO BEARS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (71%); 

PERSON: PERRY, JAMES; LAPOINTE, JOE JAMES PERRY (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



512 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Panel on 2000 Finds News Largely Good

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Although serious concerns remain, especially in health care, small businesses, local government and education, the United States is largely prepared for Year 2000 computer problems, according to the committee that has been the Senate's chief watchdog on the issue.
At the same time, the committee said, it has become increasingly worried that lagging preparations overseas could lead to economic disruptions severe enough to hurt American businesses and generate pleas for international aid. 
 The publication of the committee's report with just 100 days left until Jan. 1 was one of many public and private sector Year 2000 events this week, most with generally positive overviews larded with caveats.
"There is probably more complacency that will come out of this than we would like," said Senator Robert F. Bennett, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Problem. "We are in much better shape than I would have anticipated a year and a half ago, but people who go through the details of the report will find plenty of indication that there is still much work to be done."
The computer problem stems from representing the year in electronic dates with just two digits, like 99 for 1999. Faulty devices and programs can malfunction when they read 00 as 1900 instead of 2000 or simply fail to recognize it as a valid date.
Year 2000 flaws have been popping up for years in software -- a separate report out yesterday said that 82 percent of large companies had already encountered them -- but the first weeks of January are expected to bring the most malfunctions.
The report on large companies, which is sponsored by CAP Gemini America, an information technology consulting company in New York, said that although nearly half did not expect to have all of their critical computer systems fixed before the end of the year, only 12 percent expected such vulnerable systems to pose a "significant business risk."
The survey also reported that 44 percent of the Year 2000 malfunctions to date occurred in systems the companies had fixed. Computer experts say it is common to introduce errors when debugging software, which is one reason contingency planning for breakdowns is an essential part of Year 2000 preparations.
"We can't say everything is fine and rosy," said James Woodward, head of CAP Gemini America's information systems management group.
But many recent reports and presentations are emphasizing optimistic expectations. Perhaps more strikingly, a National Association of Manufacturers survey of vital concerns of small manufacturers published yesterday did not even pose a question about Year 2000. Earlier this year, the manufacturing group had seen the threat of Year 2000 problems and lawsuits as so important that it made legislation restricting litigation one of its main policy objectives.
Yesterday's Senate report, which is available at www.senate.gov/ y2k/documents/100dayrpt, contained no major surprises for computer experts and others involved in Year 2000 activities.
The committee's biggest areas of concern were generally in sectors where information about preparations has been hard to obtain. In the $1.5 trillion health care industry, the committee praised Year 2000 programs at drug companies, distributors and major hospitals but expressed grave concerns about the readiness of computer systems in the nation's 50,000 doctors' offices and 15,000 nursing homes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (53%); SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (56%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; BENNETT, ROBERT F (SEN) ROBERT BENNETT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



513 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: How the Economy Keeps Booming

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Floyd Norris (Business Day, Sept. 17) argues that the United States is living beyond its means because of the large current deficit in its external accounts -- a measure of how much we pay foreigners for goods and services compared with how much we collect from them. But this deficit is partly an outgrowth of the United States economy's global strength. The American economy has been growing faster than the rest of the world economy, pulling in imports and keeping other economies afloat. 
 As other areas of the world grow faster, they, too, will accelerate imports. As they accumulate dollars, they will buy our securities. So long as economic growth, both at home and abroad, is soundly based, the private markets will find the right balances among the trading nations and in the currency markets.
 
LEON KOROBOW
Great Neck, N.Y., Sept. 17, 1999
 
The writer is a retired assistant vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); 

PERSON: KOROBOW, LEON FLOYD NORRIS (60%); LEON KOROBOW (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



514 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: How the Economy Keeps Booming

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The solution to the mystery of how the economy sustains growth with low unemployment and little inflation (Business Day, Sept. 16) is staring at us. Yes, American consumers are spending at an unprecedented rate, but they are spending on foreign goods. Money that would have fueled inflation at home has gone to Asia and Latin America, helping to bail out economies there. 
 Globalization has altered the old economic formulas. Investors may wonder how long it will last, but for now, American consumers can spend with a clear economic conscience.
 
MARTHA CURTIS
New York, Sept. 17, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: CURTIS, MARTHA MARTHA CURTIS NEW YORK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



515 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: How the Economy Keeps Booming

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Sept. 18 Arts & Ideas article on the failure of economics to deal with reality skated past the source of the problem. Virtually all of the mathematical derivations favored by economists rest on the premise that the invisible hand of markets is omnipotent and omnipresent, making it unnecessary to observe reality, since all answers are predetermined. 
 If employers have more power than employees, if monopolists have the power to set their own prices, if there are spheres like law and medicine in which consumers are unable to judge prices and quality, economists dismiss the problems with the remark that in time "the market" will correct everything. Were economists to observe how people, businesses and countries actually behave, their recognition of the marginality of the ivory towers would be devastating to them.
 
ART HILGART
Kalamazoo, Mich., Sept. 18, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MICHIGAN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: HILGART, ART

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



516 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Analysts See A Lost Chance In State Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 22

 BODY:
As they approved the new state budget last month, Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders called it a model of sound judgment, a plan that raised spending at a modest pace and put last year's large surplus into a reserve fund rather than spending it.
But a range of fiscal experts, from Wall Street analysts to private watchdog groups to the State Comptroller, have come to a strikingly different conclusion: that despite a continuing economic boom that has left most states in their best financial shape in decades, New York's new budget actually worsens the state's long-term outlook. 
 They point to several factors they say will make it harder to keep the budget balanced in years to come:
*Spending is expected to rise faster than income this year, because enormous tax cuts enacted in past years are keeping state revenues nearly flat.
*The budget increased the use of "one shot" revenue sources that cannot be repeated in the future, reversing Mr. Pataki's record of cutting back on them.
*New tax cuts were enacted this year that will lower state revenues in the future.
*While other states are using surpluses to pay off debts, this budget will increase New York's debt, already the highest in the nation.
These experts say the steps taken by the state were not egregious, but that many were the sort of questionable maneuvers that states usually make to get through hard times, not when they are swimming in cash. The experts share a fear that time may be running out to take advantage of the nation's long-running expansion to get New York's finances in order.
The most detailed and stinging criticism of the budget came today, in a 58-page report by State Comptroller H. Carl McCall. Mr. McCall projected that the state's $37.4 billion General Fund will face a $2.8 billion deficit next year, a $4.6 billion deficit the following year, and considerably larger gaps after that.
The deficits might not materialize if the economy continues to grow at the blistering pace of the last three years -- something economists do not expect -- but otherwise, they can be closed only by cutting spending or raising taxes.
"What's most distressing about it is they had a unique opportunity to do some things that would have a positive long-term impact, and they did the reverse," said Mr. McCall, a Democrat, who did not lay blame specifically on the Governor or the Legislature. "They made the long-term problems more difficult."
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said: "I haven't seen his report, but the budget is an excellent budget. It's soundly balanced and preserves the entire $1.8 billion surplus."
In addition to major spending increases on education and the environment, he said, "it continues us as leading the nation in cutting taxes."
Still, the administration's own core conclusion is not much different from the Comptroller's. Mr. Pataki's office recently predicted a $1.9 billion deficit next year, and that assumes that state agencies will find $500 million in "efficiencies," which most analysts are unwilling to credit.
So the administration's true deficit projection is $2.4 billion, not far from Mr. McCall's $2.8 billion. By comparison, a year ago, Mr. McCall was predicting a $1.8 billion deficit one year into the future.
And Mr. McCall is far from alone in his criticism.
State lawmakers "went into the process with a long-run problem and came out with a somewhat bigger long-run problem," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit group that closely studies the city and state budget. "This budget was just focused on getting through this year and next year."
Frank J. Mauro, director of the left-leaning Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit group in Albany, said: "This budget is incredibly short-sighted. It tries to take care of the next couple of years -- though even those will be difficult -- and after that we go over the precipice."
As home to legions of stock traders and wealthy investors, New York has benefited heavily from the bull market, in the form of rising income tax payments. Yet Wall Street rating agencies give it the second-lowest bond rating of any state, ahead of only Louisiana.
This year, over the objections of the Democrats who control the Assembly, the Governor succeeded in having the entire $1.8 billion surplus that accumulated during the 1998-99 fiscal year set aside, rather than spent, in 1999-2000.
But that money is already spoken for, because the state plans to use it over the next two years to pay for property tax cuts that have been put into law, but are taking effect in stages. That reserve is projected to run out in two years, and while Mr. McCall does not project the state's finances beyond two years, he and other analysts said that it is safe to assume the predicted deficits would balloon beyond that point.
In their defense, administration officials pointed to a brief report issued last month by Standard & Poor's, one of Wall Street's major bond rating firms, that said the state's finances were generally better than they were three years ago, a point no one would dispute. But Standard & Poor's barely commented on the outlook beyond the end of this fiscal year, now just six months away.
Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's main competitor, is preparing a more detailed report for publication next month that executives there said will take a dimmer view of the budget. Moody's declined any comment for the record until then, but one executive noted that both the Governor's and Comptroller's office are projecting much larger deficits one year into the future than they were at this time last year, adding, "that kind of speaks for itself."
Analysts have made many gloomy predictions for New York's finances over the last few years, and each time were proved wrong, thanks to extraordinary growth on Wall Street and in the economy at large. The expansion has allowed the state to cut taxes deeply and raise spending at the same time.
The new budget totals $73.3 billion, a 3.8 percent increase over last year, but much of that is money -- like Federal welfare and Medicaid payments, and tuition paid by State University of New York students -- that has no direct effect on state finances. When those elements are stripped out, what is left is the $37.4 billion General Fund, the portion of the budget generated by state taxes and fees, and the part that analysts focus on.
"Revenues are barely growing because they're taking all the revenue growth we would be having and using it to cut taxes," Mr. Mauro said. "That's why spending is rising faster than revenues. It isn't some structural problem that can't be helped. We have a deficit by choice."
In the past, Mr. Pataki has acknowledged as much, saying that he believes government should lower taxes to impose discipline on spending, rather than allowing spending to dictate the level of taxes.
The Governor has claimed that General Fund growth, at 2.4 percent, is within the rate of inflation -- a contention many economists would dispute -- yet it is still higher than the projected 2 percent increase in revenue. But even that 2.4 percent figure was arrived at through accounting moves that simply declared some revenue and spending to be outside the General Fund. When those gimmicks are accounted for, Mr. McCall said, General Fund spending is actually up 3.6 percent. Mr. McCall also criticized the use of one-time revenues, like selling assets or taking surpluses from little-noticed accounts, that, by his count, total more than $500 million.
Reliance on one-time sources of money to pay for continuing needs throws the budget farther out of balance in the future.
The Governor has long been a critic of "one shots," and in his first five years in office, he steadily reduced the state's reliance on them, to just $62 million in last year's budget.
The final budget contained tax cuts that, when fully implemented, will cost the state $250 million a year in revenue, though that is a tiny figure compared to the tax cuts worth billions that have been enacted under Mr. Pataki.
During his re-election campaign last year, Mr. Pataki's opponents assailed him for the state's growing debt, and the Governor began this year with a plan to rein it in, but the new budget authorizes almost $300 million in new borrowing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TAX LAW (73%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1999



517 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN RISES. The yen rose against the dollar on expectations that Japan would get little help from other industrial nations in arresting its currency's recent surge. The dollar fell to 103.95 yen from 104.17 in New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



518 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Kaufman & Broad Earnings Climb 36%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Kaufman & Broad Home Corporation, the nation's second-largest home builder, said yesterday that its earnings for its fiscal third quarter rose 36 percent, beating expectations as the company continued to benefit from a strong housing market.
The company, based in Los Angeles, also said it was considering selling its operations in France, where it is one of the biggest home builders. 
 For the quarter ended Aug. 31, Kaufman & Broad's net income rose to $38.2 million, or 78 cents a share, from $28.1 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier.
Excluding a previously disclosed charge of $18.2 million for losses from unauthorized trading by an employee in its mortgage unit, Kaufman & Broad said net income would have been $1.02, above average estimates of 90 cents a share. Revenue increased 60 percent, to $1.06 billion.
Kaufman & Broad and other home builders are reaping the benefits of low interest rates, low unemployment and high consumer confidence, which has the housing market on track for another record year.
Even so, the shares of home builders are down on concerns that the boom will not last much longer. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (96%); KOF (PAR) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (96%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (96%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: KAUFMAN & BROAD HOME CORP KB HOME CORP (96%); KAUFMAN & BROAD SA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAUFMAN & BROAD HOME CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



519 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Worse Odds Than Roulette: Buying Trump Casino Stock

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
DONALD TRUMP, the latest would-be Presidential candidate, was bragging.
"The political people like me because I do well in polls," Mr. Trump said in a chat this week. "In Manhattan real estate, my name is a huge positive." He brandished a chart showing that Trump condominiums cost at least 79 percent more than non-Trump condos. "This is the real Trump factor." 
 So why does the stock in Mr. Trump's casino company seem to be about as popular with investors as Pat Buchanan's musings on Adolf Hitler are with voters? "People don't understand this company," Mr. Trump moaned.
Whether or not they understand Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, investors don't seem to like it. The stock has fallen about 85 percent from its peak amid worries that Mr. Trump runs it as if there were no public shareholders. In conversation, he uses the word "I" when talking about himself, and he uses the same word when talking about the company.
That public shareholders have done poorly with Mr. Trump should not, perhaps, be a surprise. They suffered mightily during his first venture running a public company, after he took control of the Resorts International casino company back in 1987.
All three of Mr. Trump's Atlantic City casinos later went bankrupt, but he managed to keep control of them and, in 1995, Trump Hotels was organized to own two of the casino hotels.
It went public at $14 a share and leaped to $35.50 in 1996.
But then Mr. Trump decided that the company should buy his third Atlantic City casino from him. The price seemed high to many, but public shareholders voted their trust in Mr. Trump, and the company bought the Trump Castle, since renamed the Marina.
Investors soon concluded that the company had badly overpaid, and the stock price collapsed. Unfortunately for Mr. Trump, his 42 percent stake in the company was pledged to secure a loan. So Mr. Trump borrowed $25 million from the company, and used some of that money to repay the loan.
Needless to say, no other shareholder facing a margin call on Trump Hotels stock received similar treatment. But Mr. Trump says the company is doing well because he is paying the prime rate -- now 8.25 percent -- which is more than the company could get if it put the money in a bank.
At the same time, the company goes deeper and deeper into debt, paying high junk-bond interest rates. Its bonds trade at yields around 15 percent.
Mr. Trump says he will repay the loan next summer and voices confidence that the company will be able to refinance its debts at lower rates. He says the Castle purchase was a good one.
Not all the blame for the company's problems can be assigned to Mr. Trump. Competition has hurt all casinos, but Wall Street has penalized Trump Hotels more than most. Its share price, now at $4.44, is not climbing even though the casinos' financial results are improving.
As New York's most famous property developer toys with seeking the Presidential nomination of the Reform Party his popularity appears to be highest among those who have not invested in his company.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph plots weekly closing stock prices for Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, since 1995.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRMP (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES CASINOS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BONDS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRIME RATES (61%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD; NORRIS, FLOYD DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



520 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. on Creative Accounting Spree

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Creative accounting by Congress reached new heights today as House Republican leaders, desperately seeking money for their spending bills, used budgetary devices to manufacture nearly $17 billion out of thin air.
First they ordered appropriators to tap $12.7 billion from the budget for the year after next, the 2001 fiscal year. Then they declared $1.1 billion for a long-established program to help the poor pay their heating bills as an unforeseen "emergency," taking the money off the official ledger. 
 And then, apparently breaking a pledge made by the former Speaker Newt Gingrich, they moved to rescind $3 billion in welfare funds for state governments.
The moves were part of a plan to help finance a bill for labor, education, health and human services programs that nonetheless cuts or eliminates so many health and education programs that President Clinton vowed tonight to veto it.
The leadership's effort to take back welfare money provoked protests from the nation's governors, Republicans and Democrats alike. They issued a statement calling it "a drastic departure" from a deal between Congress and the states.
That deal, sealed by Mr. Gingrich in a letter on June 5, 1998, pledged that the Republican-led Congress would not touch the welfare money, known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families.
"I gave you my word that T.A.N.F. funding will be guaranteed for five years," he said. "Rest assured that I will stand by that commitment."
There had been talk in Congress last year of a similar plan to tap into the states' welfare coffers, and Mr. Gingrich's letter sought to quell the governors' suspicions.
The chairman of the National Governors' Association, Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, a Republican, said the current Republican leadership in Congress had privately assured the governors that Mr. Gingrich's word was still good. "We took them at their word and still hope they'll maintain the integrity of their decision," Mr. Leavitt said.
The loss would be temporary, Republican leaders say. They promised to replace the funds in the 2001 fiscal year. "It's just a temporary relocation," said John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. "They'll get the money back."
Congress has completed work on only four of its 13 spending bills. It appears certain to fail to complete them, with one week left until the new fiscal year begins on Oct. 1.
But Congress is on track to drain a projected $14 billion surplus for the 2000 fiscal year and to break the spending caps it imposed on itself. It looks increasingly likely to tap into surplus Social Security payments to finance its spending bills, something the Republican leadership has said repeatedly that it will not do.
The Republicans' deepening dilemma was apparent in the moves to borrow heavily from the 2001 budget, to declare a 24-year-old home-heating program an unforeseeable emergency, and to try to take back the welfare money.
Congress has used borrowing from future years, a process called forward funding, in the past. But it has never used more than $12 billion in a single year for all Government programs combined, let alone a single spending bill, the Senate Budget Committee said.
And it has not declared programs like home-heating assistance to be fiscal emergencies, a category usually reserved for wars and natural disasters, not the coming of winter.
Nor has it asked the states to give back welfare money. At least 38 states would be affected if the welfare recession becomes law. New York would lose $508 million in welfare funds in the fiscal 2000 year, and California would lose $417 million.
The $89 billion bill for labor, education and health and human services was approved today by a House appropriations subcommittee on a party-line vote, with eight Republicans in favor and six Democrats opposed.
The subcommittee's chairman, Representative John Edward Porter, Republican of Illinois, made it plain that the creative accounting measures to finance the bill had been dictated by the Republican leadership. "I work with what they give me," he said. "Decisions have been made that I'm not a part of."
In other legislative action, negotiators from the House and the Senate worked toward a compromise that would require more flight tests for the F-22 fighter plane, a $70 billion program, before allowing the plane to begin production. The House voted to withhold $1.8 billion to build the first six F-22's; the Senate wanted the planes built next year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); VETO (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); FAMILY (70%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



521 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Leader Tries to Brighten Algeria's Image

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 23

 BODY:
When leaders gather here each year to set out policies and debate world issues, some use the spotlight to draw attention to their countries.
This year no one seems to be working harder at that than Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was elected President of Algeria in April after the country had endured seven years of fighting between Islamic militants and an army-backed Government in which tens of thousands of people were killed. 
 A week ago, Algerian voters overwhelmingly endorsed an amnesty plan devised by Mr. Bouteflika that was intended to persuade militants to surrender so that the country could begin to rebuild. And now, Mr. Bouteflika, who fought against French colonialism and later served a radical leftist Algerian Government as foreign minister, is in New York talking to business groups, courting investors and promoting free enterprise.
Before arriving, Mr. Bouteflika was building bridges closer to home. Algeria, now chairman of the Organization of African Unity, recently was the host to a conference of African leaders, which went smoothly in a country considered too dangerous to visit a year ago. Earlier, Mr. Bouteflika surprised people by greeting Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel when they met at the funeral of King Hassan II of Morocco.
"When people shake hands, it's not a world event," he said this week in New York.
"I have no problem with a market economy," he said in an interview today. "We had our socialist experience, which was excellent. But at a certain time it reached its limits, and it could only go backward. We are moving to a market economy because we have no choice.
"When you have a bazaar economy, as we do, with trafficking and corruption -- 90 percent of our commercial operations are conducted illegally -- taxes are not paid, or customs duties," he said. He has begun a drive against corruption, not a popular measure for a President whose election was contentious. All six other candidates dropped out saying that Mr. Bouteflika, who had the support of the military, would win unfairly.
That crisis now seems to have passed. Violence has been reduced, although at least 5,000 armed militants remain, belonging to two groups that did not accept the amnesty plan. The largest force, however, the armed wing of the Islamic Salvation Front, has decided to work with the Government.
Mr. Bouteflika has rejected calls for investigations and trials for those in previous Governments and in the military who have been accused of rights abuses, including his predecessor, President Liamine Zeroual. The military still wields substantial political and economic power.
When he was asked about prosecuting Mr. Zeroual, Mr. Bouteflika cut off the questioner with a curt remark: "You know absolutely nothing about Algeria!"
Algeria, one of Africa's largest countries in area and a population of 30 million, ranks in the middle of the world's nations in terms of development, according to a 1999 United Nations Human Development report. Algerians are slightly better off than Moroccans and slightly less so than Tunisians, their neighbors to the west and east.
Mr. Bouteflika said the message he was telling potential investors is that he represents "a country, a huge country, with great human and material potential." He said he was asking them to look beyond Algeria's oil. "There is agriculture," he said. "We have the high plateaus and one million acres in the Sahara that can be worked. We have minerals that just need some know-how to develop."
Economic growth is important, he said, because the middle class has been weakened, "and the middle class is supposed to insure stability in society."
Mr. Bouteflika said Algeria remains culturally close to France.
"Relations between Algeria and France are always important," he said. "When they are bad, they are important. When they are good, they are also important."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Abdelaziz Bouteflika is seeking investors for Algeria. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (97%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (68%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (56%); AFRICAN UNION (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (56%); AFRICAN UNION (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; ALGERIA (97%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; AMNESTIES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ALGERIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARMIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); AMNESTY (75%); RANKINGS (71%); RELIGION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BOUTEFLIKA, ABDELAZIZ (PRES) ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (92%); EHUD BARAK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



522 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: A Resignation Is Expected From Chrysler'sPresident

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
Just 10 months after the trans-Atlantic merger that created DaimlerChrysler A.G., the president of Chrysler is about to resign in the wake of a bruising management clash, company executives confirmed last night.
The resignation of Thomas T. Stallkamp, who was the top American executive in charge of integrating Chrysler into its new German parent, will be announced today after a meeting of DaimlerChrysler's supervisory board in Frankfurt, officials said. 
 The move is part of a larger shake-up of DaimlerChrysler's management board, which will be reduced to 13 people from 17 and comes at a time when the company's stock has been slumping badly.
The shuffle has shocked employees at Chrysler, and reports of the move rattled investors. DaimlerChrysler's shares plunged $3.9375, or 5.6 percent, to $66.25 yesterday, mainly on worries about management turmoil.
But the departure of Mr. Stallkamp also signals serious tensions between Daimler's American and German executives and perhaps over basic strategic issues as well.
Though it remains unclear exactly what led to his resignation, it is clear that Mr. Stallkamp clashed with Daimler's chairman, Jurgen Schrempp, and that his departure was not on friendly terms.
German company executives said Mr. Schrempp wanted to create a "stronger" and a "younger" management board. They also argued that Mr. Stallkamp's effectiveness as a chief executive had been exaggerated by his American supporters.
Though rumors of Mr. Stallkamp's departure have been gathering strength for the week, it is a big surprise and a puzzle.
Mr. Stallkamp was the leading American executive in charge of integrating the operations based in Stuttgart with those in Auburn Hills, Mich.
Daimler executives acknowledged last night that he had been successful in that role. Mr. Stallkamp also represented one of Chrysler's biggest strengths: its system for purchasing parts. Before becoming president of Chrysler, he had been the head of procurement and built up a system that was more cost-effective and efficient than Daimler's.
Company executives said last night that Mr. Stallkamp would be replaced by James P. Holden, who is now head of sales and marketing for the North American brands.
Several other executives, some from Daimler, will lose their positions on the management board as well. Kurt Lauk, head of Daimler's truck division, is expected to step down along with with Heiner Tropitzsch, Daimler's personnel chief. Theodore Cunningham, a Chrysler executive who is currently in charge of Latin American sales, will also lose his seat.
Company executives say Mr. Schrempp, who has been extremely frustrated at the steep decline in DaimlerChrysler's stock this year, was determined to inject new blood into top management and make it less unwieldy.
With 17 members, Daimler's management board has been one of the biggest in Germany. The board was supposed to reflect the idea that Daimler and Chrysler had formed a "merger of equals," even though Mr. Schrempp put himself in charge from the first moment.
Robert J. Eaton, the former chairman and chief executive of Chrysler, shares the title of co-chairman with Mr. Schrempp. But Mr. Eaton insured a subordinate position for himself at the time of the merger by announcing that he would only serve for three years before retiring and letting Mr. Schrempp serve as the sole chairman.
Europeans also outnumber Americans, 14 to 6, on the supervisory board, which controls who sits on the management board.
Another senior American executive, Thomas Gale, DaimlerChrysler's executive vice president for design, may leave the company as soon as this winter but is not likely to depart in the management shuffle today, those close to the company's deliberations said. Mr. Gale has been unhappy with Chrysler's loss of autonomy, they said, and rival auto makers are planning to woo him.
Mr. Gale, one of the industry's best-regarded designers, has overseen the development of innovative automobiles like the PT Cruiser, which will go on sale next spring.
The departures of Mr. Stallkamp and possibly Mr. Gale would leave DaimlerChrysler with few of the executives who rebuilt Chrysler after the 1991 recession, turning it into one of the most profitable auto makers. Robert A. Lutz, Mr. Stallkamp's predecessor as DaimlerChrysler's president, retired last year.
The loss of so many top executives makes it more likely that their proteges in the next layer of management will also leave, said Greg Salchow, an auto analyst at Roney & Company, a Detroit brokerage firm.
In a meeting with reporters just before the formation of DaimlerChrysler, Mr. Stallkamp may have foreshadowed his own difficulties when he contended that "acquisitions are easier than mergers, and we're running this one as a merger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (95%); DAI (BIT) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (96%); DAIMLER AG (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES (91%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BRADSHER, KEITH; STALLKAMP, THOMAS T; HOLDEN, JAMES P; LAUK, KURT; TROPITZSCH, HEINER; CUNNINGHAM, THEODORE THOMAS T STALLKAMP (94%); JURGEN SCHREMPP (80%); THOMAS GALE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



523 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Stocks Plunge Over Remark On Microsoft

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stock prices, already weighed down by fears about interest rates and the dollar, fell hard yesterday after the president of Microsoft said high-technology companies like his were considerably overvalued.
A session in which most prices were meandering lower was quickly transformed into a steep decline, with the technology-dominated Nasdaq market absorbing a loss of 3.79 percent, its biggest since April. The Dow Jones industrial average, which lost 205.48 points, or 1.95 percent, closed at 10,318.59. That put it more than 1,000 points below its record set on Aug. 25. 
 Yesterday's selloff contributed to a rebound in the bond market as investors redirected money from stock sales into fixed-income securities. The yield on 30-year bonds retreated below 6 percent to 5.98 percent from 6.08 percent on Wednesday.
But while voices on Wall Street itself were talking down tech stocks, it was Microsoft's president, Steven A. Ballmer, who had by far the most effect. Addressing a conference in Seattle of the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, he cited what he called a "gold rush" mentality that had driven the shares far too high. "It's bad whenever reality is out of line, and you get distortions which are not healthy," he added.
"There's such an overvaluation of tech stocks it's absurd," Mr. Ballmer said. "And I'd put our company's stock in that category.". The shares of Microsoft, the market's most highly valued company, skidded 4 7/8, to 91 3/16, reducing Mr. Ballmer's personal stake by some $1.2 billion. "I love our company," he responded. "I don't sell my stock." William H. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, who owned one billion shares before recent gifts, had a paper loss yesterday that approached $5 billion.
The slide contributed to a 107.67-point plunge in the Nasdaq composite index, to 2,750.50.
Another depressant was a Salomon Smith Barney analyst, Bill Rafftery, who said that Intel and Apple were overpriced.
Stocks also suffered from the dollar's slide against the yen, which resumed after Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary, seemed to rule out any chance the United States would join any effort to halt the yen's appreciation, 14 percent against the dollar since June.
The dollar's weakness has made investors fret that stocks and bonds issued in the United States could lose their appeal, although the American currency has held up against most other currencies.
Still, according to Timothy M. Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at Dreyfus, the market is more worried about the possibility that the Federal Reserve will ratchet up interest rates once again to avert inflation -- a move that tends to buoy the dollar -- than it is about the dollar's performance against the yen.
"Japan's not out of the woods yet" in restoring economic growth, Mr. Ghriskey contended. "Their currency will correct."
Financial stocks, which had been among the stronger groups early in the day, were caught in the selloff, with J. P. Morgan, Chase Manhattan and the Bank of New York each down more than a point and Morgan Stanley losing 3 3/16, to 86 3/8; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 3, to 39 7/8, and Merrill Lynch 2 9/16, to 68 1/4. Lehman Brothers fell 1 7/8, to 53 3/8, despite reporting higher-than-expected profits and winning a "strong buy" recommendation.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 30.10 points, or 2.3 percent, to 1,280.41.
The Dow industrials also disappointed technicians. After rebounding a bit Wednesday from a support level of 10,500, the blue-chip barometer moved decisively lower. Its decline was the second this week of more than 200 points; it lost 225.43 points on Tuesday.
Lesser market depressants seemed to be President Clinton's veto, albeit entirely expected, of the Republican tax-cut bill and the Labor Department's report that first-time applications for unemployment insurance fell last week to the lowest level since 1974, a move magnified to some extent by East Coast floods that prevented some people from reaching claims offices.
Although drug, oil and airline stocks began the session with gains, no major group survived the afternoon meltdown.
Some of the biggest individual losers among prominent companies were Georgia Pacific, down 5 13/16, to 38 13/16, after the resignation of its chief financial officer; Rite Aid off 2, to 12, on accusations of overcharging, and Gillette down 2 1/16, to 37 3/4, the second consecutive decline after an analyst cut her profit projection.
Among technology stocks, Hewlett-Packard was the biggest drag on the Dow industrials, sliding 4 5/16, to 94 3/8, with I.B.M. down 3 3/16, to 122.
Elsewhere, Ebay plunged 10 7/8, to 138 1/4; Amazon.com 3 3/4, to 62 1/4, and Intel 5 5/16, to 77 1/2.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bond Prices Soar
 By The Associated Press
Bond prices soared yesterday, pushing the 30-year bond yield below 6 percent for the first time in nearly four weeks, as a selloff in stocks sent investors seeking the safety of Government-backed securities.
Bonds also got a push from a growing consensus among analysts that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates stable at the Oct. 5 meeting of its policy makers.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 12/32, to 101 30/32, pushing its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, down to 5.98 percent from 6.08 percent late Wednesday.
The last time the yield on the long-term Treasury closed below 6 percent was on Aug. 27 at 5.97 percent.
Yields on three-month Treasury bills fell to 4.79 percent, while six-month yields fell to 5.01 percent. Yields are the interest the securities pay by maturity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP; APPLE COMPUTER INC; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY MICROSOFT CORP (94%); INTEL CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP; APPLE COMPUTER INC; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET STOCK INDEXES (94%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); BOND ISSUES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); WRITERS (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); JAPANESE YEN (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BALLMER, STEVEN; RAFFTERY, BILL STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); BILL GATES (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



524 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Odds Worsen in Hunt for Low-Income Rentals

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
In a negative side-effect of the robust economy, more people with low incomes are struggling to find rental housing that they can afford, the Department of Housing and Urban Development said today.
From 1995 to 1997, the number of "struggling renter households" increased by 3 percent, to almost 8.9 million from about 8.6 million, the department said. A struggling household was defined as one whose income was at or below 30 percent of the median income for its region. 
 At the same time, the supply of affordable rental units for such households has declined. Using the latest figures available, the department said affordable rental units decreased by about 5 percent, a drop of 372,000 units from 1991 to 1997.
"The sad truth is that more and more people working at low-wage jobs, as well as older Americans living on fixed incomes, are being priced out of the housing market as rents rise," Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo said. "We felt that the rental situation was getting worse. These numbers document that in a painful way."
The Secretary said rents had been rising for several years as landlords charged what they thought the market would bear in times of prosperity. In 1997 and 1998, rents rose twice as fast as general inflation, Mr. Cuomo said. The rent-rate increase was 3.1 percent nationwide in 1997, compared with a 1.6 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index; in 1998, the respective figures were 3.4 percent and 1.7 percent.
Mr. Cuomo said the report issued today was based primarily on data from the Census Bureau's latest survey of American housing trends. He said the release was not timed for political reasons, though he seized upon the report as supporting the need for the 100,000 new rental-assistance vouchers called for in President Clinton's budget for the fiscal year that begins next week.
The Government estimates the nationwide median family income at $47,900: that is, half of American families have incomes over that figure, and half under. In or near big cities with high housing costs, incomes tend to be higher, and therefore the gap between "struggling households" and people with enough money to live comfortably is wider.
In New York City, the "struggling household" ceiling for a family of four is $16,000, the report said, meaning that $16,000 is about 30 percent of the median income for a New York family of four.
The department said about 116,000 people are on waiting lists to live in public housing in New York City, and about 203,000 are on lists to get rental-assistance vouchers. The wait for each category is about eight years, the department said.
The department said that it could not immediately determine how much the New York waiting lists had increased in the last two years but that a nationwide survey of 40 big-city housing authorities showed waiting-list increases of 10 percent to 25 percent over that time.
Nor do such numbers tell the whole story of hardship, Mr. Cuomo said. The Government assumes, in general, that a family can spend up to 30 percent of its income on housing without undue hardship. Mr. Cuomo said more than five million American families are spending half or more of their incomes on rent and getting no assistance.

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; INCOME HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); TRENDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); CENSUS (66%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID ANDREW CUOMO (77%); BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



525 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: After Touring Bronx, First Lady Urges Congress to Raise the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
After briefly touring a commercial neighborhood in the Bronx and praising the borough's economic redevelopment efforts, Hillary Rodham Clinton urged Congress yesterday to raise the minimum wage.
Her remarks staked out a strong Democratic position on a hallmark issue that could draw a contrast between herself and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is her likely Republican opponent in next year's United States Senate race. 
 Mrs. Clinton in her remarks yesterday expressed strong support for an initiative sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts that would raise the minimum wage 50 cents a year over the next two years, bringing it to $6.15 an hour. On Tuesday, Democratic Senators seeking to force a vote on the Kennedy measure temporarily blocked Republican legislation to revamp Federal bankruptcy laws.
"There are some things that we know will help," Mrs. Clinton said, standing outside Kleener King, a dry cleaner in the Fordham section, "that will make a difference in how much more we can create good jobs and grow the economy right here in the Bronx and in the city. One thing we know will work is to raise the minimum wage and there is a policy proposal currently pending in the Senate to do just that."
 The First Lady chastised Senate Republicans for blocking Mr. Kennedy's initiative. "Unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the Senate has just blocked an effort to raise the minimum wage," she said. "And I would call upon Republicans and Democrats alike to speak out on behalf of an increase in the minimum wage today."
If Mrs. Clinton's comment seemed to be a veiled challenge to Mayor Giuliani to take a stand on the issue, the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, who accompanied the First Lady yesterday, got directly to the point. He called on Mr. Giuliani to take a position and to influence his supporters, some of whom are in the leadership of the Republican-controlled Senate, to pass the Kennedy measure.
"We now know where Hillary Rodham Clinton stands on the minimum wage," Mr. Ferrer said as Mrs. Clinton stood at his side nodding. "My suggestion is that you ask the supposed Republican candidate for Senator where he stands on the minimum wage and what he will do with Republican Senators who have already endorsed him to unblock this important legislation and come to a vote on the Senate floor."
On Wednesday, the State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, a Democrat, joined Mrs. Clinton at a news conference in lower Manhattan to criticize a Republican tax cut proposal in Washington and to chide the Mayor over his conditional support of it.
Mr. Giuliani has not taken a position on the minimum wage proposal and said yesterday that he needed further time to study it, so it remains unclear whether the issue will become a matter of debate in next year's Senate race. But he said that raising the minimum wage could lead to a loss of jobs if employers choose to dismiss workers rather than pay them more.
"The raising of the minimum wage always sounds like a good thing," he said. "But the thing you have to look at is, how many jobs is it going to cost you? And what is it going to do at a time in which you are involved not only in New York but all throughout America in a major welfare-to-work effort?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TRENDS (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TAX RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); TED KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



526 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning Under Onus of Super Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: SUMMIT, N.J., Sept. 23

 BODY:
Jon S. Corzine, the retired investment banker, had barely finished announcing his formal candidacy for the United States Senate today when he was asked the $300 million question:
Why on earth would a man who had just made $300 million as a co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company want to subject himself to the rigors and relentless public scrutiny of running for the Senate? 
 Mr. Corzine smiled, paused, then responded to the television reporter by talking about his interests in health care, education, gun control and civil rights.
"For me," Mr. Corzine said, "the reason to go to the United States Senate is to be an advocate for meeting our society's most important challenges."
The rookie candidate's polished response suggests that Mr. Corzine, 52, was well prepared for the question. But with the race for the Democratic nomination beginning to gain momentum, it is a question he is likely to hear frequently in the coming months. Many Democratic insiders were surprised several months ago when Mr. Corzine first began to surface as a possible candidate for the Senate seat being made available by the retirement of Senator Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat.
Although Mr. Corzine (pronounced kore-ZYNE) has made financial contributions to several candidates over the last decade and has been active in a number of civic organizations, he is hardly a political player, and did not even vote in several Democratic primaries. Nonetheless, his impressive business credentials, support from several powerful county chairmen in northern New Jersey and willingness to finance his own campaign have made Mr. Corzine one of the three leading contenders for the Democratic nomination.
And now that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has announced that she will not run for the Republican nomination, Democrats have grown more optimistic about their chances in the general election, so the tenor of the primary campaign has intensified.
In recent days two other leading candidates -- former Gov. Jim Florio and Tom Byrne, a former Democratic state chairman -- have tried to blunt the power of Mr. Corzine's affluence by proposing voluntary spending limits in the campaign.
Mr. Corzine said today that it was unfair of candidates who are already well known to limit a newcomer's ability to put out his message.
Announcing his candidacy outside his stately home in a Summit, N.J., neighborhood of soaring chestnut trees and neatly trimmed lawns, Mr. Corzine talked about his humble beginnings as an Illinois farm boy who worked on construction jobs to pay his way through school.
Accompanied by his mother and his wife, Joanne -- who was a classmate of his in kindergarten -- Mr. Corzine staked out positions on a variety of issues that leave him decidedly to the left of most of the Democratic contenders.
He favors strict gun control, an increase in the minimum wage, and the establishment of an inner city investment bank to aid the redevelopment of urban areas. He will advocate universal preschool programs and support a plan that would entitle any student with a B average to a free education at a state university.
"All of our children will live in a new knowledge-based economy," Mr. Corzine said. "So it is time for universal access to four years of college or a quality vocational or technical education."
Mr. Corzine also pledged to work to improve the health care system by expanding Medicare to cover prescription drugs, and by working toward providing universal long-term care for the elderly.
Mr. Corzine said he would offer detailed plans about the costs and financing of his proposals in the coming months.
But recent public opinion polls indicate that fewer than 20 percent of voters recognize his name.
As he made his announcement in Summit, four gardeners working across the street stopped to listen to his speech. None of them had heard of Mr. Corzine, and when they were told of his background in high finance, the crew's foreman, Nelson Gomez -- a Newark resident and registered Republican -- laughed.
"So he wants to go to the Senate for what -- to make more money?" he asked.
But Mr. Corzine said in his speech that his business background would help expand the current economic prosperity and that his personal wealth gave him the freedom to act on his own convictions, without being swayed by financial contributors.
"I won't owe anything to anyone but you," Mr. Corzine told the crowd.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon Corzine of New Jersey announced his candidacy yesterday for the United States Senate and quickly showed his adeptness at campaigning. (Don Standing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); GUN CONTROL (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; CORZINE, JON S JON CORZINE (94%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



527 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The Yen Rises a Little; Japanese Stocks Fall Hard

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Friday, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Asian and Pacific stock markets opened trading this morning under pressure after Thursday's drop on Wall Street and indications that the United States would not back joint international efforts in the foreign-exchange markets to limit the strength of the Japanese yen.
Currency markets are expected to be reasonably quiet today, adopting a cautious stance ahead of the meeting in Washington this weekend of finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial nations. In early trading, the United States dollar moved back above 104 yen. 
 Stocks in Tokyo, however, opened sharply lower, with the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues falling through the 17,000 level for the first time since June 15. The slide came after losses in the Nikkei futures contracts for December in Chicago and on Wall Street.
The key index was down 512.65 points in Tokyo, or 2.96 percent, at 16,813.11, while the benchmark stock index here in Australia was down more than 1.2 percent, at 2,891.8.
"It was a pretty ordinary night offshore, obviously," said Richard Herring, a Burrell & Company broker here, "and after holding up for two days, it is not surprising to see a bit of a selloff here this morning."
The Asian slide came in the wake of a decline in the Dow Jones industrial average on Thursday of 205.48 points, or 1.95 percent, its lowest finish since April 9. The Dow had lost 225 points on Tuesday.
There are concerns that while the yen's strength reflects improving conditions in Japan, too rapid a rise could imperil an economic recovery.
Traders' hopes that Washington would support joint intervention by central banks at the Group of Seven meeting were dashed by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers. He said on Thursday that Japan should use whatever measures it could to buoy its economy.
The dollar sold at 104.48 yen in early Asian trading, lifted by bids from Japanese investors, compared with 103.95 yen late in New York on Thursday. But if the Group of Seven meeting produces no signs of agreement to stem the yen's strength, then it is expected to rally strongly next week. "I think after the meeting, the risk is that we do go lower and do move toward that 100 level next week," said Tim Moloney, Deutsche Bank's currency strategist here. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); GROUP OF SEVEN (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; AUSTRALIA; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



528 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Vetoes Tax Cut but Seeks Accord

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton vetoed the $792 billion Republican tax cut today, but called on a skeptical Congress to reach a bipartisan compromise with him on taxes, domestic spending and the long-term financing problems facing Medicare and Social Security.
With Congress and the White House headed for a showdown in coming weeks over spending priorities for next year -- and with time running out for his legacy-minded Administration to make substantive progress on big issues -- Mr. Clinton urged both parties not to "throw in the towel" this year before trying again to reach a broad budget deal. 
 The President said Congress and the Administration had an obligation to try to assure the financial health of Social Security and Medicare and to provide an adequate amount of money for education, environmental programs and health care while still making progress in reducing the national debt.
"In the days ahead, I will ask the Republican majority to work with me to fulfill these fundamental obligations we have to our children and to our future," Mr. Clinton said before vetoing the tax bill at a ceremony in the White House Rose Garden. "If we can work together to meet these objectives, we can also work together to pass tax relief we can afford, affordable middle-class tax relief that reflects the priorities of both parties and the values of the American people."
Although he said he was flexible, Mr. Clinton made no specific new offers and he did not call for direct negotiations. And his effort to engage Congress drew a stiff arm from Republican leaders, who have said for weeks that they would not be lured into last-minute budget negotiations with a President they distrust.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said their goals for now are to block demands by the White House for increased Federal spending and higher taxes, and to pass the appropriations bills needed to operate the Government without dipping into the portion of next year's budget surplus that comes from excess Social Security revenue.
"We want to work with the President," Mr. Hastert said in a statement. "But we will not work with the President to raise taxes, raid the Social Security trust fund or pile on more debt on the American people."
The fiscal dueling illustrated how both parties are increasingly intent on reaping political gain by blocking the other side's initiatives rather than on compromising and passing legislation, despite the opportunities created by projections of mounting budget surpluses.
The White House staged today's veto with all the trappings of a victory ceremony. The Marine Corps band played. Cabinet secretaries and senior Administration aides were gathered in the sun-drenched Rose Garden, representatives of interest groups were invited, and Mr. Clinton sat behind a desk on a platform to wield the veto pen with the same flourish he might have used in signing a favored bill into law.
The President had made clear even before it was passed by a sharply divided Congress last July that he would reject the $792 billion tax cut, which over the next decade would reduce personal income tax rates, provide a break for many two-income couples, cut capital gains taxes, repeal the inheritance tax and give corporations and special interests a variety of provisions they favored.
Mr. Clinton said the tax bill used too much of the projected surplus, would require deep cuts in domestic spending, did nothing to stabilize the big social welfare programs and risked a return of crippling budget deficits.
"I will veto this bill because it is wrong for Medicare, wrong for Social Security, wrong for education and wrong for the economy," Mr. Clinton said.
Joe Lockhart, the White House spokesman, said later that the Administration was willing to provide more time to work out a deal on the budget issues by signing a two-week temporary budget that would keep the Government operating in the all-but-certain event that Congress would not pass all its spending bills by the start of the new fiscal year on Oct. 1, eight days from now.
Most members of both parties in Congress, though, see little hope for any broad budget compromise this year. They said Republicans were eager to use tax cuts and spending restraint as issues in next year's elections, while Democrats viewed Medicare and to a lesser extent Social Security as powerful issues working in their favor.
Still, there are a few optimists in both parties who think some kind of limited deal might be struck.
One vehicle for progress might be a package of routine tax provisions that the House Ways and Means Committee will draw up on Friday. The provisions include an extension of a credit for corporate research and development costs, credits for companies that hire workers from welfare rolls and rules that limit the effect of the alternative minimum tax on low and middle income taxpayers.
Some members of both parties think there is room to expand the package to include provisions with bipartisan support like a cut in the marriage penalty, which hurts many two-income couples.
White House officials think their best chance for bipartisanship rests with efforts in the Senate Finance Committee to draft legislation shoring up Medicare and adding a prescription drug benefit to the program.
But an effort to develop a bipartisan approach to Medicare collapsed earlier this year, and the issue is so complicated that prospects for a deal before Congress adjourns later this year appear slim.
The chances of reaching a compromise on shoring up Social Security seem even more slender. Despite nearly two years of efforts to find a middle ground, most Democrats remain wedded to keeping the current system of retirement benefits intact, while most Republicans want to move toward a system under which workers could invest part of their payroll taxes in the stock market.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, signing a veto of the Republicans' $792 billion tax-cut bill, urged both parties not to "throw in the towel" in their efforts to reach a compromise on taxes, spending, Medicare and Social Security. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



529 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Russia Steps Up Campaign Against Caucasus Rebels
Russian warplanes bombed an airport and set an oil refinery ablaze in Chechnya, as the Kremlin took its military campaign against Islamic rebels into Chechen territory. A1
 
Inquiry Into Russia Banking
President Clinton's top Russia expert, Strobe Talbott, largely sidestepped queries from Senator Jesse Helms at a hearing about allegations of Russian corruption and possible American complicity. A13 

The Manhattan District Attorney was said to be looking into the operations of a defunct London law firm for clues to the origins of Russian money movements through the Bank of New York that are under investigation. A13
 
Clinton and Arafat Meet
President Clinton met with Yasir Arafat to discuss how to proceed on negotiations to define a final peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. A3
 
Iraqi Leader May Face Charges
A leader of Iraq's opposition movement in exile, Ahmed Chalabi, left, said American officials were planning to pursue genocide and war crimes charges against Saddam Hussein. A3
 
Kashmiris' U.N. Trip Blocked
Leaders of Kashmiri separatist groups said Indian authorities had prevented them from leaving New Delhi for New York, where the separatists planned to seek support for their cause at the United Nations. A5
 
More Violence in Timor
International peacekeepers had their first tense encounters with armed men in Dili as the Indonesian Army began its final pullout from East Timor, with soldiers smashing and burning their own headquarters. A6
 
Indonesia's Parliament approved a security law that opponents said could grant strong new powers to the military. Students in Jakarta marched toward Parliament, clashing with riot police who fired plastic bullets and tear gas. A6
 
Aftermath of Taiwan Quake
The destruction from the earthquake and its aftershocks will significantly reduce Taiwan's economic growth for 1999, Government officials said. More than 2,100 quake-related deaths have been recorded. A12
 
Serbs Oppose Kosovo Corps
The Yugoslav Army staged a tactical exercise of armored and special forces near Kosovo and a top general said Belgrade would not recognize the formation of the Kosovo Protection Corps, made up of Albanians. A7
 
Judge Criticizes British Paper
A British judge criticized a newspaper for letting reporters ply the 10th Earl of Hardwicke with food and alcohol until he sold them cocaine. A jury convicted Lord Hardwicke of selling drugs after the paper published a report, but sent a note to the judge saying jurors felt he had sold the drugs under provocation. A11
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-24
 
House Votes to Limit Class-Action Lawsuits
The House, voting 222 to 207 largely along party lines, passed legislation to make it difficult, if not impossible, to bring successful large class-action lawsuits against tobacco companies, gun makers and a variety of other businesses. The bill resembles a Senate measure with bipartisan support. Presidential advisers aides said they would recommend a veto. A1
 
Clinton Vetoes Tax Cut
President Clinton vetoed the $792 billion Republican tax cut, but called on a Congress to compromise with him on taxes, spending and the financing of Medicare and Social Security. A20
 
Drug Executives Chastised
The Administration summoned six drug company executives to the White House this week and reprimanded them for ads critical of President Clinton's plan for Medicare prescription drug benefits. A16
 
Poor Hit by Rising Rents
More people with low incomes are struggling to find rental housing that they can afford, in a side-effect of the robust economy, HUD said. A14
 
Perot Leaning Toward Buchanan
Patrick J. Buchanan's expected campaign for the Reform Party nomination has the tacit approval of Ross Perot and explicit encouragement from close Perot advisers. A1
 
Gore's Financial Concerns
Some aides and advisers to Vice President Al Gore are concerned that his campaign for President is spending too much too fast. Others believe the spending is proper and needed. A1
 
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York endorsed Bill Bradley, saying Mr. Gore had no chance of winning the Presidency. A22
 
New Democratic Chairman
President Clinton named Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia the general chairman of the Democratic National Committee. A22
 
Mars Spacecraft Missing
The Mars Climate Orbiter strayed too far into the Martian atmosphere and was probably destroyed, NASA officials said after losing contact with $125 million robotic spacecraft as it tried to enter orbit. A1
 
Farm Losses in North Carolina
More than two million acres of crops were damaged or ruined by floodwaters after Hurricane Floyd, the state agriculture commissioner said, estimating the ultimate farm loss would be more than $1 billion. He predicted 6,000 to 7,000 farmers would go out of business. A14
 
Death Penalty in Dragging Case
A Texas jury decided that Lawrence Russell Brewer, 32, should be executed for his role in the racially charged killing of a black man in Jasper. A14
 
Bombings at Black University
The second pipe-bombing in three weeks at Florida A.& M. injured no one, but left students at the predominantly black state university fearful and frustrated. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Undercover Operation To Catch Violent Officers
The New York City Police Department has been operating a little-known program to ferret out officers prone to violence. Undercover officers pose as angry people whose verbal abuse is scripted to see if an officer with a history of complaints will respond with threats or violence. B1
 
Guilty Plea by Ex-Official
Paul J. Silvester, 37, a former Connecticut state treasurer, pleaded guilty in Federal court to accepting kickbacks in return for placing $500 million in state pension investments. Officials said that while the state pension money was never in danger, their investigation would continue, focusing on investment consultants, some of the equity funds and donors to his campaign. B1
 
Battle Over Museum Show
Mayor Giuliani stepped up his attack on the Brooklyn Museum of Art, threatening to terminate its lease with the city and even seize control of the museum unless it canceled a British exhibition that includes a portrait of the Virgin Mary stained with elephant dung. The museum's director said he had no intention of calling off the exhibition. B6
 
Car Kills Man in Restaurant
A 60-year-old man was killed and 23 other people were injured, several critically, when a car leaving a parking garage plowed into an Italian restaurant on West 38th Street in Manhattan. B3
 
New Year's Eve 2000 Party
Organizers of the millennial festivities in Times Square outlined plans for a 24-hour extravaganza. B3
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B10-11
 
George C. Scott
An actor celebrated for his performances as Gen. George S. Patton Jr. in the movie "Patton" and as Shakespeare's Richard III (in Central Park), among others, he was 71. B20
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Centralized Stock Pricing
Arthur Levitt, the S.E.C. chairman, proposed a system for displaying in one place all orders to buy and sell United States stocks, calling it essential to the future of the markets. A1
 
Markets Get Another Drubbing
Stock prices fell hard after Microsoft's president said high-technology companies like his were considerably overvalued. The Nasdaq lost 3.79 percent, closing at 2,749.83, down 108.33 points. The Dow lost 205.48 points, or 1.95 percent, and the S.& P. 500 lost 30.10 points, or 2.3 percent. C1
 
Microsoft's Internet Strategy
Microsoft said it would offer the public a piece of its most successful on-line effort, the Expedia travel site, would significantly redesign its MSN Internet portal and would introduce a new network computing device. C2
 
Shake-Up at DaimlerChrysler
Thomas Stallkamp, the top American in charge of integrating Chrysler into its new German parent, was said to be set to resign as Chrysler president amid a management clash. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
WEEKEND E1-30; E31-46
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The Mayor as art censor; when betrayal mattered; Brent Staples on Edmund Morris and Ronald Reagan.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal and Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E41
 
TV Listings E29
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather A25
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALBANIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALBANIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EARTHQUAKES (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAWYERS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); RIOTS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); GENOCIDE (67%); WAR CRIMES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); VERDICTS (60%); COCAINE (60%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (55%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



530 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE;
EUROPEAN RATES HOLD

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
At a meeting, the European Central Bank held interest rates at record lows, giving the recovery in the 11-nation euro economy more time to take root before raising borrowing costs. Though growth is accelerating in the three biggest economies, Germany, France and Italy, annual inflation in the region stood at 1.2 percent in August, well below the central bank's 2 percent ceiling. Officials have stressed that inflation is likely to remain quiescent, cooling concern they will follow the United States Federal Reserve and the Bank of England by raising rates soon. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



531 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2608 words

HEADLINE: A Big Birthday Finds the Chinese Prospering

SERIES: A HALF-CENTURY IN CHINA: Two Families Remember

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
In 1949 Yang Yuena was an illiterate 17-year-old peasant, living in a straw hut and farming for an absentee landlord, when the Red Army entered her rural hometown. This month, dressed in fashionable silks, she feted a U.C.L.A.-bound grandson in the family's second home, a lavish apartment in Beijing with a television that takes up an entire wall and a bar stocked with wine and cognac.
For her the twists and turns of a half-century of Communist rule add up to a raging success: a rich businessman for a son-in-law, exotic teas and plump shrimp at lunch, two family members accepted into the Communist Party. But for other families, like the Lings of Shanghai, the equation is far more complicated. 
 Ling Qiang, 87, is a former low-level functionary in pre-Communist China. He uses the Queen's English as he describes his family's persecution under Mao, pointing to two discolored patches in the walls of his yellowed one-room apartment, smashed in the 1960's by marauding Red Guards in search of Western books or bourgeois valuables.
Those ugly memories have faded with a bit of prosperity and the more relaxed political atmosphere of recent years. And his grandson, 27, a fledgling engineer who shares his room, gives little thought to that turbulent past, spending his spare time on the Internet, trading stocks or E-mailing his sister in Chicago.
The stories of these two families are the story of the revolutionary experiment that Mao initiated 50 years ago on Oct. 1, an experiment that in some way upended and uprooted virtually every family in China, leaving millions dead or broken, but ultimately easing the survivors into the relative prosperity of today.
Some families have had more material success than others, but all have passed the same landmarks: the revolutionary hopes and ideals of the early 1950's, the brutality of Mao's political campaigns from the late 1950's until his death in 1976, and the diversity and economic opportunity in the last two decades of reform. And each stage has placed its stamp on its generation.
Today, as China prepares to celebrate the anniversary of the People's Republic, most people have a sense of progress and pride, despite an uncertain economy and grumblings about politics.
Still, as the two families illustrate, many have traveled a road of painful and bizarre switchbacks.
The Communist troops came in late 1949 to Yuhuan, a remote coastal village in southern Zhejiang Province, where Yang Yuena's family was surviving, just barely, by a mix of fishing and farming.
The family was too concerned with subsistence either to support or oppose the approaching Communists in their battle against Nationalist troops, Ms. Yang said, though fighting raged for months in nearby fields.
But they were fed up with the corruption of the Nationalist Government, she said, and quickly found reason to embrace the victors in China's civil war. Officially classified by the Communists as "poor peasants," Ms. Yang's family was given land when the new rulers carved up the property of local landlords and rich farmers.
"Of course we were extremely happy -- everyone was happy -- we got land!" she said. As a bonus, the Communists' policy against arranged marriages meant that she was able to choose a husband -- although it proved hard to find one given her "bad" background: an uncle had fled with the defeated Nationalists to Taiwan.
Good will toward the Communist authorities ran deep in Yuhuan, even as they organized farmers into work teams and a few years later fully collectivized farming -- taking back the land previously handed out.
"We all believed in the Communist Party," Ms. Yang said. "The peasants were excited and happy. It was a time of great faith that we were about to enter Communism."
In the 1950's, in Shanghai, Ling Qiang also found the landscape thoroughly transformed. In this once cosmopolitan city, cafes and dance halls quickly shut. No one dared wear jewelry because it was considered bourgeois -- although gold bullion still functioned as currency underground.
And if Mr. Ling, a former official in the Nationalist Government's salt monopoly, did not share the peasants' sense of giddy anticipation, he did not, he says, feel besieged.
After returning from a brief exile in Hong Kong to rejoin his wife, he used a gold bar to buy rental rights to the one-room apartment that is still his home and began teaching English at a Jesuit school that had been taken over by the party.
Mr. Ling, with his Western-style education and Nationalist connections, was obliged to take part in a weekly political study group to remold his thinking, and was shipped out for a summer of Marxist "re-education." The Communist Youth League rejected his son's application.
"But over all, it was not bad," Mr. Ling said. "I was not a capitalist, so was not so affected."
After 10 years, he said, he and his wife even began to embrace Communist idealism. When, in 1959, Mao called on youths in Shanghai to move to the countryside to acquaint themselves with peasant life, Mr. Ling enthusiastically encouraged his 18-year-old son to sign up.
But in the late 50's Mao's most sweeping revolutionary campaigns started. They would soon buffet the lives of the emerging second generation.
 
The Turmoil
Decades of Changes Large and Larger
For centuries women in Yuhuan had tended the home while the men fished or tilled the fields. But with the Great Leap Forward in 1958, Mao smashed these traditions, insisting that all grain be turned in to the Government, forbidding individual fishing or planting, and requiring every man and women to work to meet grain quotas in exchange for rations in communal canteens.
Worse still, scarce local grain was siphoned off to feed China's cities, creating dire shortages.
"By 1959," Ms. Yang said, "the peasants were exhausted, and couldn't or wouldn't work more because the system took everything away. By 1960 we'd stopped planting. And then the grain ran out."
Her future son-in-law, Wang Yicai, now a rich businessman, lived in the same township and was only 5 years old at the time. But he recalls chronic hunger, eating coarse bread and sweet potatoes -- supplemented by leaves -- to survive. Many died in Yuhuan, including Ms. Yang's mother, in a famine in 1960-62 that killed tens of millions across the country.
Then, in 1966, just as Yuhuan was recovering, Mao unleashed the Cultural Revolution, closing schools, sending armies of urban youths to the countryside and anointing students as "Red Guards," giving them license to destroy any traces of China's bourgeois past. They smashed ancient relics and persecuted people deemed to harbor counterrevolution.
For Mr. Wang it marked the end of his formal schooling, at 9. He became a Little Red Guard and spent his days studying Marx, Communist operas and revolutionary songs.
"In a way it was interesting and exciting," he said.
But he also felt he needed more of an education, and quietly borrowed textbooks from teachers to teach himself writing and math. Still, when Mao died and the Cultural Revolution ended, Mr. Wang, then 20, was ill prepared for China's free-market future, having been in school just four years.
During this same turbulent time, Ling Huakang, of the Ling family's second generation, also found his life upended by Mao's campaigns for radical change. In 1959, instead of going to college, he volunteered to serve the party in the fields of rural Anhui Province.
"I thought it was an honor to be sent down -- that I should respond to the call of Chairman Mao," said Mr. Ling, now a jovial middle-aged state factory administrator. "I had no idea that my future would be so messed up."
He had gone to the countryside, he said, to uplift the peasants and was disappointed to end up a farmhand. Then, a few months later, after Mao announced that the future of China depended on steel as well as grain, Mr. Ling was transferred to a newly established rural steel factory.
He, too, remembers the famine of the early 1960's: grain rations that never arrived; eating dried sweet potato slices and cabbage soup for weeks on end.
Still, he says, he retained an underlying faith in the party. And he was thrilled when selected to attend a college of metallurgy in preparation for an assignment at one of the country's biggest steel plants.
"Even then I still felt idealistic," he said with a laugh.
In fact, a few years later he named his children Gang (steel) and Liang (grain), to express his devotion to Mao.
That faith was again challenged by the Cultural Revolution in 1966, when the Lings abruptly became hapless targets of hatred.
In the steel foundry Mr. Ling was accused of bourgeois tendencies, in part because of his father's middle-class background. Red Guards smashed his RCA radio and, upon noticing an alarm clock made in Canada, accused him of worshiping foreign enemies.
He was the object of "struggle sessions," criticized by 30 co-workers crammed into a room. He recalls the fear that moved him to rub the initials off an old U.S. Army surplus blanket. But he also remembers the shame he felt as he wrote his self-criticism.
"I thought 'Yes, I do have a very serious problem,' " he said. " 'It's terrible. I'm infected with bourgeois ideals.' "
Back home in Shanghai, his father was locked in his school for a month and interrogated incessantly by students. Groups of Red Guards ransacked the apartment and tormented his mother, who was "totally terrified," Mr. Ling said.
So terrified was she that one day she took the family's few remaining heirlooms -- jewelry, gold, silver dollars -- and tossed them into a sewer. His father, who had studied Western literature in college, collected his precious paintings and books and, believing them tainted, turned them in
It was only in the 1970's, when the children of the third generation were born, that the political radicalism started abating.

The Prosperity
Fading Fears, Rising Hopes
Wang Yicai's big break came in 1973, in the waning years of the Cultural Revolution, when the central Government decided to let villages like Yuhuan set up small enterprises. He became a salesman, ultimately assigned to live in Nanchang, the capital of Jiangxi Province.
With cash to spend, he married a woman from Yuhuan and built a brick house, the first in his family with electricity.
More important, in Nanchang an older professor got the bright young man admitted to an aeronautics college. By the time Mr. Wang completed his studies, rejoining his wife and new son to become a factory manager in 1979, the Cultural Revolution had ended. Deng Xiaoping had announced China's "opening and reform," paving the way to the development of private business.
That prospect was appealing to Mr. Wang, who calls Mao "ignorant about economics" and regards Deng as a hero. But having witnessed the wild political swings of the 1960's, he -- like many others of his generation -- had learned to be deeply cautious.
"There was a huge and powerful change under way," he said. "But in the late 70's China was still not that stable, and I wanted to make sure the new policy would last."
Only in 1983 did he "jump into the sea," as the Chinese put it, joining with eight partners to start the company, the Yuhuan Qingma General Machinery Factory.
The factory made car and motorcycle parts just as China was starting to motorize. Company growth has been exponential, sending the Wangs on an upward spiral.
In 1990 the local Communist Party invited the budding entrepreneur to join. Large factories must have a party cell; Mr. Wang could form one or have it created for him. "I'm a party member now," he said, "because you really can't separate business and politics in China at this time."
For Ling Huakang in Shanghai, the reforms of the past 20 years have had less to do with the pocketbook than the spirit.
"Over a number of years, the fear faded very slowly," said the second-generation Mr. Ling, who in 1982 was transferred to the Baoshan Iron and Steel Plant in Shanghai. "We only gradually came to re-evaluate the Cultural Revolution and to see how ridiculous it was." He still lives at the factory.
When he first returned to Shanghai, half a day of each week was still devoted to political study, a practice that faded over the following four years. In a world increasingly focused on economics, the family's negative political background was slowly forgotten. Their two children tested their way into good high schools and, later, university.
Though never prosperous, the Lings slowly accumulated the trappings of a modernizing China: a television, a large refrigerator, an electric ceiling fan. In a sign of the times, in 1984 the Lings modified the way their son Liang's name was written, changing it from the character meaning "grain," to another with the same sound, meaning "good."
The third generation of both families has come of age in a different world, one in which politics no longer defines the core of Chinese life but merely sets its limits.
They never experienced the turmoil of their parents' lives and are too young to have been caught up in China's last great political upheaval, the 1989 Tiananmen protests.
In their short adult lifetimes, grain coupons have given way to supermarkets and Marxist study sessions to pop concerts. They no longer wait for state job assignments, instead suiting up for interviews at foreign companies. They are pragmatic, materialistic and international.
"Because I studied history I can communicate with my father's generation," said Wang Dong, part of the third generation of the family from Yuhuan village. "But many young people can't." He spoke just before leaving for U.C.L.A., the first family member to travel outside China.
An earnest young man holding a cell phone and wearing sneakers and jeans, Mr. Wang could pass for a Western graduate student. His father, whose company makes 20 percent of car transmissions in China, is proud that his son is attending graduate school in the United States.
Still, the younger Mr. Wang plans to return to China after he gets his Ph.D. in political science. Two years ago he followed his father into the Communist Party.
"I want to participate in the future of China," he said, "and for that you have to join -- both to develop the country and your career."
But his concerns seem utterly removed from the politics of yesteryear, centering on the economy, foreign relations and China's entry into the World Trade Organization.
These are the concerns of most young Chinese, who have little emotional connection with the past though they are often tightly bound to their families.
So it is that Ling Liang, the youngest man of the Ling family, sleeps each night on a cot next to his grandfather's bed -- and surfs the Internet in the room's other corner.
Ever since he graduated from college in 1994, his life has been about choice: he chose his girlfriend; he chose his job with a foreign company. He makes a higher salary than his father and has introduced air conditioning and a microwave oven to the room -- even though it still lacks plumbing.
He is happy to cook for the grandfather who raised him but betrays impatience with the anxieties of his elders. At a recent Sunday lunch, his mother reminded him of the Mao-era campaigns, as she often does, and he quickly silenced her.
"No, no," he said. "I don't worry at all about that. We don't live for the cause of Communism. We live for living better."
 
A Half-Century in China
 Later articles will examine other aspects of the 50th anniversary of Communist China's founding.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: VILLAGERS' ODYSSEY -- Wang Dong as a youngster, top, in 1979, and at U.C.L.A. Communist membership is a must, he says, to "develop the country and your career." (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); SUCCESS IN SHANGHAI -- The Lings in a montage, and gathered in the room Ling Liang, left, shares with his grandfather, center. He finds room there to surf the Internet. (Mark Leong/Matrix, for The New York Times); (Reuters); (Henri Cartier-Bresson/Magnum); (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 
Chart: "China's Revolution"
 
The Republican Era
1911-12 -- Qing Dynasty overthrown. Sun Yat-sen, right, becomes President of the Chinese Republic and chairman of the
Nationalist Party.
1921 -- Founding meeting of the Communist Party in Shanghai.
1925 -- Sun Yat-sen dies. Chiang Kai-shek becomes commander in chief of the Nationalist Party.
1927 -- Nationalists purge Communists in Shanghai and elsewhere.
1931 -- Japanese seize Manchuria.
1934-35 -- Communist forces, under Nationalist pressure, retreat to north China in the Long March.
1937 -- Japan begins full-fledged invasion of China. Nationalists and Communists form United Front.
1941 -- Japanese attack Pearl Harbor. United States becomes China's ally.
1945 -- Japan surrenders.
1946-49 -- Civil war ends in Communist defeat of Nationalists.
 
Communist Victory
1949 -- Mao Zedong, left, proclaims the People's Republic of China.
1950-1953 --Korean War pits China against United States.
1957 -- Intellectuals who criticized the party during the Hundred Flowers movement are persecuted in the Anti-Rightist Campaign.
1958 -- Great Leap Forward is initiated to achieve Communism through rapid economic development.
1960 -- Soviet Union withdraws advisers from China.
1960-62 -- Economic and social dislocations of Great Leap Forward result in widespread famine and deaths of millions.
1964 -- China carries out first nuclear test.
1966-1976 -- The Cultural Revolution engulfs the country in political turmoil and violence.
1971 -- Beijing takes over China seat in the United Nations, previously held by Taipei.
1972 -- President Nixon visits China.
1975 -- Chiang Kai-shek dies.
1976 -- Mao Zedong dies.
1977 -- Deng Xiaoping, right, purged twice during the Cultural Revolution, returns to power.
 
Beginnings of Reform
1978 -- Communist Party ratifies market-based reforms in the countryside.
1979 -- United States transfers diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing. Special Economic Zones created along China's coast to spur economic change and attract foreign investment.
1989 --Demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square end in a military crackdown with hundreds killed.
1995-96 -- China launches missiles near Taiwan in apparent attempt at intimidation. Nationalist leader, Lee Teng-hui, becomes Taiwan's first directly elected President.
1997 -- Deng Xiaoping dies. Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule.
1998 -- Presidents Clinton and Jiang Zemin exchange visits.
1999 -- New tensions with Taiwan as President Lee declares relations with Beijing should proceed on a 'state-to-state' basis.
(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (56%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (56%); BEIJING, CHINA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES GRANDCHILDREN (90%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICS (88%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; MAO ZEDONG (1893-1976) RICHARD NIXON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



532 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: RACING: NOTEBOOK -- BELMONT PARK;
Vosburgh to Be Key Test For Breeders' Cup Sprint

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO 

 BODY:
It will be a shakedown race for the Breeders' Cup Sprint, and seven speed horses were entered in it yesterday at Belmont Park, led by the favorite, Crafty Friend. But to his trainer, John Kimmel, it was not yet certain that the $250,000 Vosburgh at Belmont Park tomorrow would lead the 6-year-old star to the $1 million Breeders' Cup championships five weeks later.
 Kimmel's caution comes from two things, the trainer said yesterday: the timing and the distance. Crafty Friend prevailed by a nose over Affirmed Success in a fierce duel in the Forego Handicap at Saratoga on Labor Day, and may need more than 19 days of rest to run his best race tomorrow. And his preferred distance is seven furlongs, not the six furlongs of the Breeders' Cup Sprint. 
 "Any time you run back in less than three weeks," Kimmel said, "it's a little bit of a concern, especially coming off the kind of effort he gave in the Forego. And as I've said all along, six furlongs is a little short for him. It would be a tough assignment. He would have to draw favorably, probably an outside post position."
 Kimmel said he had an alternative. If Crafty Friend, who has won three of his last four starts, cannot make the Breeders' Cup on Nov. 6 at Gulfstream Park, he can wait for the Cigar Mile at Aqueduct on Nov. 27.
 "We'll see how we do here," he said, "and, if we don't like the way things are going, we could point to a race like the Cigar."
 The field of seven in the Vosburgh includes Artax, who gave a record-setting performance in the Carter Handicap at Aqueduct last spring and who flew three furlongs in 35 seconds yesterday morning in his final workout.
"He's an amazing horse," said his trainer, Louis Albertrani. "The races don't take anything out of him. He doesn't turn a hair. It's like he just went out for a gallop. I think he really enjoys what he does."
 
TURFWAY PARK
Five Star Day Pick In Kentucky Cup
 They will also be sprinting at Turfway Park tomorrow, with Beau Greely's Five Star Day the horse to beat in the Kentucky Cup Sprint.
 Five Star Day ran second to Forestry in the King's Bishop at Saratoga last month, and they are now considered perhaps the two top sprinters, followed closely by Crafty Friend and Affirmed Success, winner of the Vosburgh last year. But Affirmed Success is sitting out the Vosburgh this year because his trainer, Rich Schosberg, feels that the Forego may have taken too much out of his horse.
 So, he is keeping him in the barn tomorrow while the other sprinters run for the gold. But they should all meet in the Breeders' Cup shootout on Nov. 6.
 
N.Y.R.A.
 
Saratoga Purses Set A Record
 In a valedictory to six booming weeks at Saratoga this summer, the New York Racing Association reported yesterday that purses at the upstate track reached record levels along with its high marks in attendance and betting handle.
 Total prize money gained about 12 percent to $18 million; the average rose to $527,000 a day, the highest at any New York track. No wonder the big horses came running: Victory Gallop, Silverbulletday, Lemon Drop Kid, More Than Ready, Forestry and the rest.
 "Our basic belief," said Terry Meyocks, president of the racing association, "getting down to the economics of racing, has always been that the best purses attract the best horses, and the best horses attract the fans." JOSEPH DURSO
 
LITTLE BROWN JUG
Blissfull Hall Wins In a Race-Off
 Less than an hour after fading down the stretch to lose his first shot at winning, Blissfull Hall redeemed himself with a strong closing quarter to take the Little Brown Jug at Delaware, Ohio, in a race-off yesterday and move within a victory of capturing pacing's triple crown.
 Blissfull Hall, winner of the Cane Pace this month at Freehold, N.J., will shoot for the triple crown and a $250,000 bonus in the Messenger Stakes on Oct. 16 at The Meadows at Meadow Lands, Pa.
 It was the second year in a row that Ron Pierce drove the Little Brown Jug winner.
 A year ago, he got a late gift when Mike Lachance elected to drive Artiscape in the second heat instead of the favored Shady Character.
 Pierce was given the ride and ended up winning while Artiscape finished fourth.
 Blissfull Hall coasted to victory in the first elimination in 1:53, winning a showdown with the leading money-winner, The Panderosa. The Panderosa broke stride in the first few seconds and finished last.
 In the second heat, which in the Little Brown Jug format brings back the top three finishers in each of the first three eliminations, Pierce took Blissfull Hall to the rail early and appeared to be in command heading into the stretch of the one-mile race at Delaware County Fairgrounds.
 But Blissfull Hall faded badly and dropped to third behind the upset winner, Looking for Art, driven by the Ohio native Eric Ledford in his Jug debut.
 A horse must win two heats in the Jug's quirky format and Looking for Art's stunning victory forced the four horses who had won races to come back in a race-off to decide the Jug winner. (AP) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; VOSBURGH HANDICAP SPORTS AWARDS (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH JOHN KIMMEL (71%); RON PIERCE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



533 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 3;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Exile Says U.S. Plans Genocide Charges for Saddam Hussein

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 23

 BODY:
A leader of Iraq's opposition movement in exile said today that United States officials are planning to pursue genocide and war-crimes charges against Saddam Hussein.
Ahmed Chalabi, a member of the interim presidency of the Iraqi National Congress, a coalition of exile groups, said that he and other Iraqi exiles discussed prospects for prosecuting President Hussein during a meeting in New York on Monday with David Scheffer, the Clinton Administration's Ambassador at Large for War Crimes, and Harold Koh, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor. 
 "They told us the United States has a long-term policy to seek the indictment of Saddam Hussein," Mr. Chalabi said.
Several American officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity confirmed that the meeting had taken place and did not deny that the prospect was being considered.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright also met on Monday with the delegation from the Iraqi National Congress. Congress has authorized $97 million to be used to assist such Iraqi opposition groups.
The United States has accused Mr. Hussein of destroying more than 3,000 Kurdish villages, killing more than 5,000 Kurds with poison gas, killing Shiite Muslim clergymen and forcibly relocating civilians in southern Iraq, and executing more than 2,500 prisoners in the last four years.
It was unclear how Washington would pursue a case since an international criminal court does not exist to bring the Iraqi leader to trial. Such a step would also require a measure of support from the Security Council.
A diplomat familiar with the issue said that a commission of inquiry could be set up to gather evidence against the Iraqi leader, creating legal grounds for the kind of prosecutions that led to the detention of the former Chilean dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, in Britain last year.
Mr. Chalabi said that exile groups have been asked to collect material to buttress the case against President Hussein. He said that Washington already has about 5.5 million individual documents from Iraqi security police records, many of them captured by Kurdish forces since the Persian Gulf war, and that some single out specific villages and individuals that became targets of repression.
The question of Iraq preoccupied the Foreign Ministers of the five permanent members of the Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- who were unable to bridge their differences today on a resolution opening the way for United Nations weapons inspectors to return to Iraq.
After meeting with Secretary General Kofi Annan, the Foreign Ministers issued a statement saying they wanted to find "a way forward" to adopt a comprehensive resolution that would take into account "the disarmament and humanitarian objectives" of the Security Council.
The split has developed over how to assure Iraq's compliance in disclosing the full extent of its nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and long-range missile programs, as Security Council resolutions have repeatedly demanded since Iraq's defeat in the 1991 gulf war.
Differences have also arisen over the extent to which economic sanctions should be loosened to alleviate suffering among the Iraqi people.
A draft resolution being circulated by Britain and the Netherlands reiterates the Council's position that sanctions cannot be lifted until Iraq has demolished its weapons of mass destruction. The resolution is supported by the United States and eight other members. But France, Britain and China, who all have veto power, want a less stringent yardstick applied for Iraqi cooperation.
The draft reportedly also proposes raising the cap on Iraqi oil output to allow purchases of more food and medicine under United Nations auspices. Other provisions would suspend sanctions on some other Iraqi imports, but with tight financial controls and renewable periods of four months or so, conditional upon Iraq's compliance. Baghdad said it would not accept any plan that does not lift sanctions.
The Foreign Ministers' joint statement today said that they were instructing their representatives on the Security Council to resolve the remaining differences and reach agreement on a new resolution as soon as possible.
"I don't think we expected to reach agreement this week," James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said. "The fact that the Ministers discussed it and urged that agreement be reached should give a boost to the effort to reestablish the Security Council consensus on the critical issue of getting inspectors back into Iraq."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President Saddam Hussein of Iraq misidentified one of the three permanent members of the United Nations Security Council that want less stringent conditions for easing sanctions on his country than those being advocated by Britain and the Netherlands. The member, along with France and China, is Russia, not Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (78%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (78%); GULF STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. GENOCIDE (91%); WAR CRIMES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



534 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and Walesa Pay Tribute to Kirkland

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton eulogized labor leader Lane Kirkland today as a "giant of a man, a true hero" who rejected political labels and fought for workers around the world.
"He demanded dignity and stood up for the little guy," Mr. Clinton said at a memorial service at Georgetown University for Mr. Kirkland, who was president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. from 1975 to 1995. "It was his ideology and his way of life -- passionate about the things he knew to be right." 
 Mr. Kirkland died on Aug. 14 of lung cancer at his home in Washington. He was 77.
He led a confederation of most American labor organizations in a difficult period for American workers when plants closed, jobs were lost and union membership shrank.
An ardent anti-Communist who recognized the importance of the emerging global economy, Mr. Kirkland played a vital role in the success of the Solidarity movement in Poland by urging unions in the United States to supply money and material to Solidarity. He took pride in the fall of the Soviet Union, the end of the cold war and the rise of democracy in South Africa, believing that the A.F.L-C.I.O. had been instrumental in those events.
Mr. Clinton noted that Mr. Kirkland had been drawn to the labor movement after witnessing working conditions at textile mills near his childhood home of Camden, S.C., in his remarks at Georgetown, Mr. Kirkland's alma mater. The audience included former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and Lech Walesa, whose leadership of Solidarity earned him the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize.
Mr. Walesa, through a translator, said he and Mr. Kirkland were "true friends," although they did not speak the same language.
"Lane Kirkland has not died completely," said Mr. Walesa, who was president of Poland from 1990 to 1995. "He has left in each of his friends a little fragment of himself."
John J. Sweeney, the President of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., captured Mr. Kirkland's legacy with his own words. Quoting from Mr. Kirkland's last keynote address at an A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention in 1993, Mr. Sweeney said: " 'We are, indeed, the positive agents of change. Our mission is, as it has always been, to humanize and to harness change to the service of many, rather than the few -- to assure that it means progress rather than dissolution and decay.' "
Mr. Kirkland's daughter, Lucy Kirkland Schoenfeld, closed the service by repeating advice imparted by her father. He encouraged her to remain always irreverent and "to never cross the picket line."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a memorial service for the labor leader Lane Kirkland misstated his tenure as president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. He led it from 1979 to 1995, not from 1975 to 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lech Walesa, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and President Clinton yesterday after a memorial service for Lane Kirkland. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); AFL-CIO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); AFL-CIO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); WASHINGTON, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); LABOR DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STRIKES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); TEXTILE MFG (69%); TEXTILE MILLS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); LUNG CANCER (55%); CANCER (55%); 

PERSON: KIRKLAND, LANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WALESA, LECH; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); TED KENNEDY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999



535 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Decline; Rising Mortgage Rates Cited

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Rising mortgage rates dampened Americans' demand for existing homes and pushed sales down in August, but sales are still headed toward another record year.
Sales of existing single-family homes decreased by 2.8 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.25 million units, the National Association of Realtors said today. It was the second monthly decline after sales hit a record annualized high of 5.63 million in June. 
 Despite the August decrease, association officials said they expected sales of existing homes to post another record year in 1999. Last year's record was 4.97 million units.
The August rate of 5.25 million is about 9.2 percent higher than the sales level of August 1998, the association said.
The August sales level was the lowest since May, when the annual rate was five million units. The 2.8 percent decline in August followed a 4 percent drop in July sales.
The drop in August's sales came mainly from rising mortgage rates, economists said.
"The dampening in growth was due to higher mortgage rates, but it's going to take much higher mortgage rates to really slow down the strong housing market," said Clifford Waldman of Waldman Associates in Arlington, Va.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 7.94 percent in August, up from 7.63 percent in July and 6.92 percent in August 1998, the association said, citing figures from Freddie Mac, the mortgage company.
"Recent jumps in interest rates, coupled with the fact that many consumers spend August vacationing rather than home shopping, are factors that will typically impact sales," said the association's president, Sharon Millett.
The national median sales price for existing homes rose 5.3 percent in August over the corresponding month a year earlier, to a record $137,700, the association said.
Fred Flick, the association's vice president for economic research, attributed the increase to strong demand, a healthy economy and the fact that the unemployment rate hit a 29-year low. "People can afford to pay," he said.
Sales in the West took the biggest hit, falling 12.1 percent in August, to an annual rate of 1.31 million units. Sales were also down in the South, by 1 percent, to an annual rate of 2.05 million units.
Sales were flat in the Midwest, unchanged at an annual rate of 1.18 million units. But they were up by 7.6 percent in the Northeast, to an annual rate of 710,000 units.
The real estate association released its figures a week after the Government reported that construction of new homes and apartments had risen four-tenths of a percent in August, leaving analysts marveling at the continued strength in housing despite rising mortgage rates. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS EXISTING HOME SALES (95%); MORTGAGE RATES (94%); MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



536 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL REVIEWS;
Talking to Mother and Other Totems

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
The notion of an intrinsic national or regional character is investigated in "Sicilia!," Jean-Marie Straub and Daniele Huillet's austere and pretentiously minimalistic screen adaptation of Elio Vittorini's celebrated 1939 novel, "Conversazione in Sicilia" ("Conversations in Sicily"). The Sicilians who discourse in the film, sometimes casually and sometimes in intense personal conversations, tend to speak in cadences that echo the fervency of Italian opera. The culture they evoke is proudly earthbound, its values rooted in long-standing pre-modern traditions of honor and warfare and a stereotypically Italianate machismo. 
 These impressions are filtered through the travels of an unnamed man (Gianni Buscarino) who is returning to his native Sicily after living for many years in Bologna. In the film's centerpiece, the traveler engages in a probing conversation with his widowed mother (Angela Nugara) about everything from the raising of crops to her disappointment in her husband, who was more of a poet than a man's man and who could never live up to the heroic image of her father. His biggest failure, this formidable woman remembers, was his inability to help her when she was giving birth because he was so frightened.
The conversation, filmed in high-contrast black-and-white, is punctuated with pregnant pauses in which the camera pulls back to observe the mother and son impassively silhouetted against a stark white wall as if they were strangers in the same room.
"Sicilia!" has many similar moments that make you aware of the camera in a way that underlines its detachment. In the radically austere films of the Straub-Huillet team, who had two earlier movies, "From Today and Until Tomorrow" (a screen version of Arnold Schoenberg's 1929 light opera) and "Class Relations" (an adaptation of Kafka) in the New York Film Festival, the camera rarely editorializes. Here, at odd moments, it pans slowly back and forth across a particular setting as if to emphasize the filmmakers' blank emotional and editorial slate. For in the Straub-Huillet esthetic, truth is to supposed to be revealed as much through accident, inference and subtext as through what is actually said.
The movie, which the New York Film Festival is showing tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 at Alice Tully Hall, is divided into four movements. The first finds the traveler conversing casually with strangers while waiting in a port. The main subject of conversation is the diminished market for oranges and the bleak economic consequences. The film then jumps ahead to the traveler's boisterous conversation with a group of men on a train. In the boldest challenge to our attention, the camera turns away to cast its gaze for several minutes at arid landscape outside the train window. The third movement reunites him with his mother.
In the finale, our traveler is captivated by the spiel of a knife-sharpener whose honing stone is attached to the wheel of a stationary bicycle. Like the traveler's mother, this hardy wayfarer is a timeless figure virtually untouched by modernity, plying a simple trade that goes back for centuries, if not millennia.
 
SICILIA!
Written, directed and produced by Jean-Marie Straub and Daniele Huillet; in Italian, with English subtitles; based on the novel "Conversazione in Sicilia," by Elio Vittorini; director of photography, William Lubchansky. Shown tomorrow at 4:30 P.M. at Alice Tully Hall as part of the 37th New York Film Festival; with a 17-minute short, Jean-Marie Straub's "Machorka-Muff." Running time: 66 minutes. This film is not rated.
 
WITH: Gianni Buscarino (the Man), Angela Nugara (the Mother), Vittorio Vigneri (the Knife-Grinder) and Carmelo Maddio, Angela Durantini, Simone Nucatola, Ignazio Trombello, Giovanni Interlandi, Giuseppe Bonta, and Mario Baschiere (Townsfolk).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gianni Buscarino on a bicycle in "Sicilia!," a film by Jean-Marie Straub and Daniele Huillet that is based on a 1939 novel by Elio Vittorini.
(Film Society of Lincoln Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SICILIA! (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS; NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MOVIE FILMING (76%); TRAINS (74%); WRITERS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; STRAUB, JEAN-MARIE; HUILLET, DANIEL JEAN-MARIE STRAUB (90%); DANIELE HUILLET (80%); ALICE TULLY HALL (55%); ANGELA NUGARA (55%); GIANNI BUSCARINO (55%); ELIO VITTORINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



537 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Good Fortune by the Cupful;
Brazil Coffee Producers Turn to the High-End Market

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: ALFENAS, Brazil

 BODY:
At an air-conditioned compound carved out of the rolling green hills of southeastern Brazil, the headquarters of the coffee plantation overseen by Washington Luiz Alves Rodrigues buzzes with the kind of intensity one expects at an Internet start-up.
"We're emerging from the Stone Age," Mr. Rodrigues, 39, said in his glass office here. Nearby, a few dozen casually dressed employees of Ipanema Agricola, one of Brazil's largest coffee producers, hunched over a single table with computers updating bean analyses, weather dispatches and real-time prices. 
 The company, Brazil's first producer to create a product for Starbucks Coffee, is at the forefront of a wide-reaching transformation in this country's coffee industry, the world's largest. Lured by the market for high-end coffees that has spread from Europe to the United States and is now growing in other countries, many Brazilian producers are focusing for the first time on quality instead of quantity.
Since Brazil produces roughly a third of the world's estimated coffee output of 106.8 million bags -- each bag weighs 132 pounds -- the shift in priority to better-quality coffee could be savored by fans of java around the globe. And together with a parallel quest to increase efficiency, which is resulting in higher yields on Brazilian farms, better coffee could also mean cheaper coffee in coming years.
"The stage where Brazilian coffee is at is similar to where the California wine industry was in the 1970's," said Michael Nugent, head of Merrill Lynch & Company's coffee desk in Napa, Calif. "Back then sweet wines were the thing and dreamers started to create a quality market that was almost nonexistent. The eventual dividends were huge."
Although analysts agree that it will take a while for changes on Brazil's coffee farms to trickle down to the consumer, a look at how companies like Ipanema have reinvented themselves and at how many other Brazilian producers are following suit, may provide some insight into where the global coffee industry is heading.
The newfound emphasis on quality is a departure from the industry's primary objective, which is supplying large processors like the Procter & Gamble Company, which sells the Folgers brand, or the Philip Morris Companies, which markets Maxwell House. Shipments of instant coffee, in which distinctive taste is not necessarily a plus, are also a priority.
"For more than a century Brazil has produced the most, so there was no need to make the best," said Steven Topik, a professor at the University of California at Irvine who is writing a history of coffee.
Although most Brazilian coffee is still sold to large international processors, the crumbling of bureaucratic structures that sought to prop up Brazil's status as the world's leading producer through agreements aimed at controlling production has had much to do with the changes washing over the industry.
In 1989, with much of the world ushering in freer markets, the International Coffee Organization's accord, which used export quotas to help determine prices, was dissolved. Subsequently, the state-controlled Brazilian Coffee Institute, which tried to control production, was abolished in an early effort to limit government interference in the economy.
"It was a big thing for growers to realize that there are actual consumers out there, not just faceless institutions to deal with," said Marcelo Vieira, the international director of the Brazilian Specialty Coffee Association, an organization formed by a dozen producers in the early 1990's.
As growers scrambled to adjust to this new reality, they began visiting countries like neighboring Colombia, the world's second-largest producer, where cultivation on small, mountainous farms has resulted in some of the world's most prized coffees. A delegation of farmers also scoured cities like Seattle, where the specialty coffee craze was in full swing.
After observing the way farms in smaller countries supplied the burgeoning market for specialty coffees in the United States, Ipanema, which is half-owned by Julio Bozano, one of Latin America's richest individuals, shifted its strategy to the cultivation of quality beans.
Soon the company won important contracts with clients in Germany, France and Japan. Its biggest coup, though, came with a product called Ipanema Bourbon, which the company says is made from the same acidic beans that were favored by Brazilian coffee barons at the turn of the century, a time when Brazil's weight in world coffee markets was even greater than it is today.
After several years of being wooed, Starbucks, which shunned Brazilian coffee except for use in some of its blends, said a few months ago that Ipanema Bourbon would be its first coffee from Brazil sold straight.
"It became clear to us that here was a coffee detached from Brazil's generic past," said Marc Schonland, Starbucks' vice president for green coffee.
Part of the reason it has taken so long for Brazilian producers to tap high-end markets abroad has something to do with the way coffee is consumed in Brazil, which has higher per-capita coffee consumption than the United States, even though the United States has the highest total coffee consumption. In recent years, Brazil has overtaken Germany as the second-largest coffee-consuming country, leading producers to focus more on domestic demand.
In Brazilian homes, coffee is consumed throughout the day in small cups with copious amounts of sugar or hot milk, which obscures the original taste. And in business meetings or social gatherings, a handshake or a kiss on the cheek is almost always followed by an offer of a small cup of sweetened coffee. To refuse, even late at night, is to raise eyebrows.
That coffee never developed into a luxury beverage in Brazil is no surprise to Roberto DaMatta, a Brazilian anthropologist at the University of Notre Dame. "Coffee is the comma of cultural grammar, the small, informal pleasure," said Mr. DaMatta, who is planning to write an essay on the place of the coffee break in Brazilian society.
When Brazilians buy coffee publicly, it is usually done standing up at a bar or restaurant counter and is downed quickly after adding sugar, much the way tequila is emptied from a shot glass. Little attention is paid to the origin of coffee served in restaurants, although the growing popularity of espresso blends and sit-down cafes in large cities like Sao Paulo is throwing light on quality.
For instance, a recent study by the Brazilian Coffee Industry Association showed that a quarter of the coffee sold in Brazil was found to contain additives like corn, wheat or fruit rinds that allow producers to cut costs. The outcry that ensued prompted the association to increase the standards for the purity seal it grants to additive-free coffees.
As Brazilians wake up to the allure of higher-quality coffees, a parallel transformation is shaking the country's coffee industry. Many farmers are migrating from southeastern Brazil to the country's midwest and northeast, as a new agricultural frontier opens on the region's highland savannas.
There, in a vast, virtually frost-free area known in Portuguese as the cerrado, producers are using new irrigation and mechanized planting techniques that have resulted in the world's highest-yielding coffee farms. In western Bahia state, the center of the new coffee frontier, high-density planting methods allow up to 2,000 trees to be cultivated on each acre, compared with about 400 on older farms.
"This is a frontier in the physical and technological meanings of the word," said Leon Yallouz, a former employee of the United States Agriculture Department, whose estimates of Brazil's coffee crops are closely followed by analysts. Mr. Yallouz said that efficiency gains could allow Brazil to produce 40 million bags of coffee a year under optimal weather conditions -- or 50 percent more than the 26.5 million bags some coffee analysts are forecasting for 1999-2000.
No one knows exactly what impact a potential increase in Brazilian production could have on coffee prices, since there are so many other unpredictable factors -- like weather, politics and ebbs in the production and consumption in the world's 60 other coffee-producing nations. But recently consumers in the United States got a taste of what could happen after Brazil's largest crop in 11 years was absorbed in the market.
Last month Procter & Gamble said it would cut the price of its coffee to accompany a decline in the price of raw beans. After the company said the price of a 13-ounce can of Folgers would fall by 10 cents, to $2.20, Philip Morris followed suit with its own price cut. Similar price cuts could occur if, as some organizations have warned, a coffee glut results from unrestrained exports by producing countries.
Brazil, for example, exceeded by more than 6 million bags a target of 15 million bags for the year that ended in June; the target had been agreed on with the Association of Coffee Exporting Countries.
Although Brazil's output is expected to fall in the coming year because many trees are in an off year of a two-year production cycle, some experts expect production to bounce back and continue rising. And with unemployment concerns riding high, with the economy forecast to register its second year of no growth, authorities hope the coffee industry, which already employs more than 3 percent of the population, will provide some relief.
"I think jobs in Brazil's coffee industry should increase as production also increases," said Rubens Barbosa, Brazil's Ambassador to the United States and a former chairman of the Association of Coffee Producing Countries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ipanema Agricola coffee plantation, one of the country's largest, in the Alfenas area of southeastern Brazil. (Photographs by Paulo Fridman for The New York Times); Workers at Ipanema Agricola carry coffee beans away for processing. Brazil is expected to produce 26.5 million 132-pound bags of coffee in 1999-2000.
 
Chart: "Richer Rewards"
Lured by higher prices paid for premium coffee, Brazil - responsible for nearly a third of the world's coffee production - is working to produce quality along with quantity.
 
BIGGEST COFFEE GROWERS * (million bags +)
Brazil -- 26.5
Colombia -- 12.7
Indonesia -- 7.2
Vietnam -- 7.0
Mexico -- 5.2
Cote d'Ivoire -- 5.0
India -- 4.5
Guatemala -- 3.3
Honduras -- 2.9
Costa Rica -- 2.6
 
Graph tracks wholesale coffee prices per pound, since 1990.
*Department of Agriculture estimates for 1999-2000 season.
+One bag equals 132 pounds.
(Sources: U.S. Department of Agriculture; F. O. Licht)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (80%); PGP (PAR) (63%); PG (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (63%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (63%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (63%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: IPANEMA AGRICOLA MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (80%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: IPANEMA AGRICOLA US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES COFFEE (96%); COFFEE & TEA (93%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); STARTUPS (72%); WINE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); INTERNET & WWW (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



538 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: After the Tax Cut Veto

 BODY:
Now that President Clinton has vetoed the Republicans' $792 billion tax bill as expected, Congress and the White House can settle down to the difficult business of negotiating on next year's budget. Time is short. With the budget year starting officially in less than a week, few of the spending bills needed for the start of the fiscal year have even passed Congress. Washington seems poised for another last-minute showdown or a series of continuing resolutions to keep the Government going.
Mr. Clinton, who rejected any tax cut before other more pressing matters are resolved on Capitol Hill, reflected how much the political world has changed in recent years. Tax cuts were once as popular as kissing babies and knowing the words to "The Star-Spangled Banner." The problems with this tax bill became obvious in August when members of Congress went home to find that for many people their anti-tax rhetoric had a stingy ring to it. Cutting taxes for the already rich began to sound like cutting benefits for everybody else. Moreover, stimulating a booming economy with a tax cut could stir fears of inflation and trigger higher interest rates, economic developments that can cause near panic in millions of people who watch the Dow like a relative's heart monitor. 
 This week the President noted correctly that the Republican bill he vetoed was "too big, too bloated," burdening the economy while rewarding the rich, the lobbyists and campaign contributors. The veto, however, was the easy part. The President now has a far more difficult task of finding common ground with a Congress that prefers the politics of Clinton-bashing. It might help that Mr. Clinton's veto statement had less venom than expected, an unwritten White House invitation to focus on a decent budget package and a more reasonable use of the Federal surplus. Congress and the White House should find some agreement on how to preserve Medicare while relieving prescription drug costs for the elderly, protect Social Security, retire debt and, as political dessert, offer any modest tax cut with what is still available. Mr. Clinton's veto message Thursday rightly urged Congress not to "throw in the towel" or go home early while these more complicated matters, especially Medicare and Social Security, remain untouched.
Senator William Roth, a Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and New York's Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the senior Democrat on the committee, could push for a "down payment" on Medicare reform. It would offer Mr. Moynihan a crowning achievement before next year's retirement and provide Mr. Roth with a crowing point for what is expected to be his toughest re-election campaign. The season for working out areas of agreement on these matters is now, while the President has the budget bills as leverage and before next year's elections turn complicated issues into political bumper stickers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE REPUBLICAN (58%); WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VETOES (US); EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CHILDREN (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); AGING (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (61%); INTEREST RATES (51%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



539 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says It Will Halt Missile Tests During U.S. Talks

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 24

 BODY:
In a terse announcement that seemed to confirm recent diplomatic advances, the North Korean Government today publicly stated that it would refrain from further missile tests while talks with the United States are underway.
The statement, carried by the official Korean Central News Agency, said the halt in missile tests had been decided "in order to create a more favorable atmosphere." It appeared to bolster assertions by the Clinton Administration that the recently announced easing of American sanctions against North Korea was justified by a new North Korean commitment to ease tensions by suspending the country's missile tests. 
 At a news conference here today before receiving word of the North Korean statement, William J. Perry, the former United States Defense Secretary who is President Clinton's special adviser on North Korea, spoke of the missile test moratorium and the easing of American sanctions as initial gestures in what promises to be a long road toward ending the cold war on the Korean peninsula. Washington's recent moves have included lifting a ban on trade between the countries, allowing American airlines to land in North Korea, and promoting higher level diplomatic contacts.
"Each step of the negotiations ahead of us could be frustrating and difficult," he said. "But if we are unsuccessful in persuading North Korea to remove the threat, we must take actions that are even more difficult, we must take actions to contain that threat."
The announcement of an agreement between the United States and North Korea to relax sanctions and halt missile testing after talks in Berlin earlier this month received mixed reaction in Washington, with some critics maintaining that the Koreans were being wrongly rewarded for easing a crisis of their own creation.
In response, Mr. Perry said today that making the improvement in relations between the countries meaningful would require a "change in behavior" by the North. Failing that, he said, the sanctions could be restored "in a day."
Talks are scheduled to resume in early October, and are expected to involve the visit of a senior North Korean official to Washington for the first time.
In recent years, with its economy in a shambles, North Korea has suffered what many experts say may rank as one of the century's worst famines. According to some estimates, as many as two million people may have died of starvation and famine-related disease. Under these circumstances, economic aid and the remittances of Koreans living in Japan, and more recently, receipts from a booming, if tightly controlled, tourist trade with South Korea have become vital sources of income for the Government of President Kim Jong Il.
Although South Korea has pressed ahead with a strategy of engagement, Japan reacted to a missile test last year with a suspension of most economic aid and a threat to end the lucrative remittances. Japan has taken the most cautious approach to North Korea of any of Washington's regional allies. And Tokyo's skepticism could be heard even today after the North Korean announcement.
"We continue to monitor North Koreas statements with keen interest," said one senior Japanese diplomat, who said his country supported Mr. Perry's diplomacy. "But everyone is hopeful there will be more from North Korea. And so on the basis of just a couple of sentences, I think I should stop there." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TESTS AND TESTING; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FAMINE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); STARVATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); AIRLINES (66%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: PERRY, WILLIAM J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W BILL CLINTON (77%); KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



540 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Big Selloff Eases, but Investors Remain Concerned

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
After a volatile day of trading during which all the major indexes were down sharply, stocks rebounded yesterday and finished off slightly. But while the market held together after a big selloff Thursday, a host of concerns, including higher interest rates, a weaker dollar and overvalued technology stocks, will continue to trouble investors.
The declines for the week left the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks just a fraction from a 10 percent decline since its July 16 high and pushed the Dow Jones industrial average off 9.2 percent from its high of Aug. 25. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index is 5.1 percent below its Sept. 10 high, but that is after a 13 percent decline from July 17 to Aug. 10. 
 Where the market goes from here is difficult to say, but investors have many reasons to be jittery. The Federal Reserve could raise interest rates for a third time since June when policy makers meet on Oct. 5. The rebound of economies in Asia and Europe is making those markets more attractive, which could drag investors away from the United States.
The rush of foreign investors back into Japan is the main reason for the dollar's sharp slump against the Japanese yen over the last 10 weeks. Although the dollar is off 15 percent against the yen, it is not significantly weaker against the world's other major currencies. But a continued slide against the yen could still help pull stocks lower, as Americans fear a flight of Japanese investors back home.
The so-called confessional season on earnings is also under way, and more negative announcements about missing earnings estimates could rattle the market in the current environment, even though earnings growth for the third quarter is expected to be strong. Apple Computer and the FDX Corporation are among the major companies that have recently issued warnings.
But this wave of concern has not reined in all the exuberance that had sent stocks so high. Another new issue of an Internet stock took off yesterday, with shares in Alteon Websystems leaping from their initial offering price of $19 a share to $74.9375. Several other I.P.O.'s also did well yesterday.
The Dow finished at 10,279.33, down 39.26 points, or four-tenths of a percent, after falling as much as 131 points in the afternoon. The S.& P. 500 dropped as much as 16 points before ending down 3.05 points, or two-tenths of a percent, at 1,277.36. The Nasdaq composite index fell 9.42 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 2,740.41, after being down as much as 65 points.
For the week, the Dow was down 524 points, or 4.9 percent, its worst weekly performance in a year. It is now 1,046.71 points below its all-time high, reached Aug. 25. This week the Dow also broke through the bottom of the trading range in which it had been since mid-May. It is now back to where it was on April 9.
For the year, the Dow is still up 12 percent and the Nasdaq 25 percent. But the S.& P. 500 is now up only 3.92 percent, and if that rate holds it will have its poorest annual performance since 1994. The poorer performance of the S.& P., which is a broader index than the other two, reflects how this year's rally has been concentrated in a few technology and other big-name and big-company stocks.
Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore, said the market was in a valuation correction, a decline that occurs when stock prices far outstrip their promised earnings. He said he did not think the bottom had been hit yet, but that "we are a lot closer to it than some people might think."
Mr. Cripps said the market will have returned to a more secure footing when more than 50 percent of the stocks in the S.& P. 500 index have declined 10 percent or more from their 52-week highs. As of yesterday, 43.6 percent of the S.& P. 500 was in that category. Another sign that stock valuations were back in attractive ranges, he said, would be if 20 percent of the S.& P. 500 stocks were down 30 percent or more from their 52-week highs. Slightly more than 10 percent of the S.& P. stocks are in that category now.
One benefit of the recent decline, Mr. Cripps said, is that the Federal Reserve is much less likely to raise its interest rate target a third time. "The fact that the stock market has cooled off takes away a reason to act," he said.
Fed officials have said repeatedly that the rally in the stock market this year has helped fuel the consumer spending that is keeping the economy growing at a faster pace than policy makers would like.
This week's stock selling has given a lift to the bond market, pushing the yield on the 30-year bond below 6 percent again. As more investors chose the relative safety of bonds yesterday, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 9/32, to 102 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.96 percent, down from 5.98 percent on Thursday. The yield on the 30-year bond has crossed the 6 percent level more than a dozen times since June.
The price of the two-year note, which is more sensitive to Fed interest rate moves, was unchanged as the yield remained at 5.53 percent.
In a surprise, the dollar rose against the Japanese yen for the first time in five trading days. The small rally came despite comments made on Thursday by the Secretary of the Treasury, Lawrence H. Summers, that seemed to rule out any effort by the United States to help support the dollar against the yen.
The dollar inched up to 104.17 yen from 103.95 Thursday. The euro, the 11-country European currency, rose slightly against the dollar, finishing at $1.0464 from $1.044 Thursday.
But currency analysts expect the decline in the dollar against the yen to resume because the Bank of Japan has apparently decided not to move to slow the Japanese currency's rally, even though it could be a threat to Japan's economic recovery.
In Japan, stocks fell yesterday, with the Nikkei index of 225 stocks dropping 454.03, or 2.6 percent, to 16,871.73. In the last two trading days the benchmark stock index has fallen 5.9 percent. After a rise of 33.9 percent this year, this selling could be a signal that some investors are worried that the strengthening yen could trip up Japan's emerging economic recovery.
Merck & Company, the Intel Corporation, MCI Worldcom and Pfizer led the market lower. And it took most of the day for the technology sector to shed the hangover from Thursday, when Steven A. Ballmer, the president of Microsoft, set off a rapid afternoon selloff by saying technology stocks were overvalued.
A three-point jump in I.B.M., which fell 3 3/16 on Thursday, helped the Dow rebound from its lows. Internet stocks and other technology stocks also rallied. Amazon and Ebay were both up after falling Thursday. Microsoft, which fell as much as 2 5/16 during the day, finished down 1/4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (65%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (65%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (65%); ALTEON WEBSYSTEMS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN RICHARD E CRIPPS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



541 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Tries to Reassure Party on Gore Candidacy

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
In a passionate political speech, President Clinton today tried to reassure his fellow Democrats that Vice President Al Gore was a strong Presidential candidate, that Mr. Gore had an unusually positive economy to run on and that it was way too early to worry about his prospects.
"Be of good cheer," Mr. Clinton urged the party faithful at a Democratic National Committee meeting here. "It's a long time between now and November of 2000. In June of 1992, you know where I was in the polls? Not behind. Third! Third!" 
 Mr. Clinton, mindful that the party is officially neutral in the primary season, did not mention Mr. Gore directly or the potentially bruising primary battles he faces with former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey. Nor did he mention the latest bad news for Mr. Gore, a CNN poll that showed Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore in a statistical dead heat in New Hampshire. The same poll showed that Mr. Clinton himself is a giant drag on Mr. Gore.
But Mr. Clinton has been raising money for his Vice President and campaigning on his behalf, and he wanted to give a lift to Gore supporters today, telling them not to become disheartened by early polls or distracted by matters that have little effect on real people.
"This is not an election yet," he said. "I mean, the election may be going on in the newspapers every day, but here, in the minds of the American people, they still think we should be drawing a paycheck to work for them."
At the same time, the Gore and Bradley campaigns were negotiating over a joint town-hall appearance in New Hampshire for Oct. 27. Gore advisers have long believed that a debate format plays to Mr. Gore's strengths, and they hope this will provide an opportunity to help short-circuit any Bradley surge.
The Democratic committee meeting, where both Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley are speaking on Saturday, is also perceived as a good venue for the Vice President. It is stacked with Clinton/Gore supporters and will become even more so after Saturday, when it officially installs Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia, a longtime Gore backer, as the new general chairman.
But that devotion was tested today in a behind-the-scenes wrangle over a resolution the committee is to consider on Saturday. It opposes re-opening debate on the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the landmark law prohibiting discrimination based on race, religion or sex in employment and public accommodations.
Last week, Mr. Bradley said he supported amending the 1964 law to include gay men and lesbians as protected groups. But several black and gay officials, some supporters of Mr. Gore, denounced the idea, saying any changes would provide an opening to Congressional conservatives to weaken the law's existing provisions.
When the resolution surfaced this morning, it bluntly called for opposing any changes to the 1964 act. Mr. Bradley's campaign attacked the resolution as an effort by the Gore camp to divide the party and turn blacks against Mr. Bradley. After much wrangling, the two camps agreed on modified language saying that the act should not be re-opened for debate or amendments "that diminish its existing protections."
The dispute was a signal that Gore allies were willing to raise concerns about Mr. Bradley on racial matters, the core issue of his candidacy. Still, Mr. Bradley showed surprising strength in fighting the Gore camp to a standstill.
Several of those attending the meeting expressed support for Mr. Gore. Martin J. Dunleavy, political affairs director for the American Federation of Government Employees, said he was not too worried about Mr. Gore's fate in primaries.
"It's early, and people like to second-guess the Vice President," Mr. Dunleavy said. But he added that the party needed to be careful about the nation's natural desire for change after eight years of Democratic power.
"Even though I think the Democrats have done a great job," he said, "there's a natural desire to re-examine the course of the country."
Mr. Clinton spoke to this underlying yen for change, acknowledging that it was aimed in part at him.
"As you go into the next election, don't fight with people when they say, 'We need a change,' " Mr. Clinton advised. "Tell them: 'We certainly do. We always need a change.' "
But, he said, "the question is not whether we're going to change, but what kind of change we're going to make? And are we going to change based on all of the good things that are going on in America now? Or would we instead take a U-turn and go back to the stuff that got us in so much trouble before the Vice President and I came here and got the help of the fine members of Congress and others who have worked with us?"
In offering a glowing assessment of his Administration's record, Mr. Clinton said the economy had been going so well for so long that voters might forget that it was worse under the Republicans, and he warned against a "collective amnesia" that would gloss over these differences.
Bradley supporters at the committee meeting were in the minority, but fervent nonetheless. One was Jackie Stevenson, a longtime party official from Minnesota. "The question is, Can Gore overcome the Clinton problem?" Ms. Stevenson asked, referring to Mr. Clinton's impeachment and Mr. Gore's belated effort to separate himself from the Clinton scandals. "It may be too late at this point."
A playful Mr. Clinton took a swipe at Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican front-runner, for supporting the Republican tax-cut bill, which Mr. Clinton just vetoed, and for proposing to increase defense spending at the same time. The President said his veto had spared Mr. Bush and other Republicans some embarrassment.
With the tax cut, he said, "there'd be no money to pay for all these things they're out there promising the voters." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); RELIGION (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (63%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



542 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

George Plans to Continue But With Two Fewer Issues
George magazine, the political magazine whose founder and editor was John F. Kennedy Jr., will continue publishing next year, but will reduce the number of issues to 10 annually from 12. 
 The magazine's appeal for both readers and advertisers has faded this year, admitted Jack Kliger, the president and chief executive of Hachette Filipacchi Magazines, owner of George along with Random Ventures. Total paid circulation, at 405,153 for the first half of the year, was down 3.4 percent from the period in 1998; single-copy sales from newsstands declined 11 percent, to 90,058. Page C4.
 
Existing-Home Sales Fell in August
Sales of existing single-family homes decreased by 2.8 percent in August, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.25 million units, the National Association of Realtors said. It was the second monthly decline after sales hit a record annualized high of 5.63 million in June. Even though mortgage rates have been rising recently, sales are still headed toward another record year. Last year's record was 4.97 million units. C3.
 
College Board in For-Profit Spinoff
The College Board, the nonprofit organization that administers college-entrance and other standardized tests, reacted to the threat of competition from the burgeoning on-line industry that helps students prepare for and select colleges, by voting to spin off its first for-profit enterprise. It plans to create a full-service Web site with advertising. A1.
 
Bank of New York Sued by Holders
Shareholders of the Bank of New York have filed a lawsuit against the bank and its directors, accusing them of allowing Russian organized crime figures to launder billions of dollars through the bank illegally. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, seeks damages on behalf of the bank itself. C4.
 
Polish Workers Seek Higher Wages
Exhausted by 10 years of economic difficulty in the transition from Communism, some 30,000 Polish farmers and workers marched through Warsaw demanding better wages and job security. A4.
 
Allstate Predicts Lower Earnings
Allstate said that its profits for the rest of the year would fall from the levels of a year earlier and would not meet expectations, because of pricing pressures and higher losses from Hurricane Floyd and other catastrophes. The announcement sent shares of Allstate and other insurers tumbling. An insurance industry group estimated that insured damage from Hurricane Floyd, which affected virtually the entire East Coast, would be $1.3 billion. C4.
 
Grupo Mexico Makes Bid for Asarco
Grupo Mexico, the Mexican mining and railways company, bid $26 a share to acquire Asarco, topping a previous bid made by Phelps Dodge. Grupo Mexico, which is fighting to gain a larger share of the world's copper production, already owns a stake of 10 percent in Asarco. C14.
 
Profit Warning Hurts Kroll-O'Gara
Shares of Kroll-O'Gara, the security and private-investigation company, fell 44.6 percent after it said it was considering selling itself and warned that third-quarter earnings would miss estimates. C3.
 
Yahoo to Offer Web Service in China
Yahoo, the Internet search service, said it would create an Internet directory site tailored for Web users in China. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,279.33 down 39.26
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% down 0.02
The euro -- $1.046 up 0.002
The dollar -- 104.17 yen up 0.22
 
Graph tracks existing home sales since January 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (81%); BK (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (81%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (60%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (81%); KROLL INC (60%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWSSTANDS (90%); PAID CIRCULATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); INSURANCE (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (86%); DAMAGES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); STATISTICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); MINING OUTPUT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); HURRICANES (67%); PROFIT WARNINGS (66%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (64%); COPPER INDUSTRY (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY JR (74%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



543 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
N.H.L. Seeks Aid to Keep Canada's Sport in Canada

BYLINE: By TARIK EL-BASHIR 

 BODY:
In a bid to keep hockey, the Canadian national sport, in Canada, the National Hockey League has asked the Canadian Government to subsidize the country's six major-league hockey teams by more than $30 million a year.
The owners of four of the six teams say that they are in dire financial straits and that most of them could be be forced to sell their teams or move to the United States unless the Canadian Government steps in. 
 "We have no other choice," said Rod Bryden, chairman of the Ottawa Senators. "We can either leave or go bankrupt. We won't sit here and die. We'll go somewhere else -- the States -- where we can thrive. I don't think Canadians realize how desperate the situation is."
The proposal from the N.H.L., which if approved would involve a government more directly than ever before in the everyday operation of professional sports in North America, calls for the Canadian Government to give the league a share of the revenue from provincial lotteries that are based on the outcome of N.H.L. games. It is part of a package of recommendations from the league to help the Canadian clubs compete financially with their American counterparts and to prevent some of them from migrating to American cities.
The league has been talking with national and provincial officials in Canada for the last 18 months about the economic strains endured by most of the Canadian franchises. These include the amount of taxes on property and income and the weakness of the Canadian dollar compared to the American dollar. These forces have put at least four of the six Canadian teams in jeopardy. The Montreal Canadiens, hockey's most fabled franchise, say they pay more in property taxes each year than all 22 of the American N.H.L. teams combined.
In an attempt to move the talks forward, the league presented a formal proposal to the Canadian Government last week. The eight-page plan asked for significant tax relief and 20 percent of the money raised by the existing and quite popular provincial lotteries that are based on N.H.L. games. Last year, revenue from those lotteries totaled $170 million.
Relief from local taxes is common for most American professional teams, as is government aid in building stadiums. In one sense, the Canadian hockey teams are asking only for the tax advantages now enjoyed by nearly all their American competitors.
Government officials in Ottawa are reviewing the plan and have not formulated a response, said Jennifer Sloan, a spokeswoman for the Canadian Industry Minister, John Manley, who has been overseeing the talks between the national Government and the N.H.L.
But the proposal has already sparked a spirited debate in Canada. Proponents contend that because hockey is an essential part of Canadian culture, the Government should step in to keep the six teams in Canada. Opponents argue that the lottery revenue should continue to be used for health care and social services, not for millionaire players and owners.
Hockey has been a vital element of Canadian culture for decades, and most N.H.L. games are broadcast on Canadian television to large and enthusiastic audiences. Yet in the last four years, two major-league teams have left the country for more economically appealing locales in the United States: the Quebec Nordiques moved to Denver, and the Winnipeg Jets went to Phoenix.
Of the six remaining Canadian teams, the Toronto Maple Leafs and the Montreal Canadiens are unlikely to leave. Both have deep roots; for 25 years, until the N.H.L. expanded to 12 teams from six in 1967-68, they were the only two Canadian teams in the league. Moreover, Toronto is Canada's largest city, and the Maple Leafs are ranked among the top third in the league in revenue because of a solid fan base and a brand new arena, the Air Canada Center, which opened earlier this year.
But for the four other Canadian teams -- in Ottawa, Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton -- matters are different. Bryden, the Senators' chairman, said economics could force the team to shut down or move. "The real, hard fact is that if we don't get a tax regime that is tolerable, we'll leave," he said.
Some Canadian teams in other professional sports, including baseball and basketball, are experiencing similar financial hardships. Like the hockey teams, these franchises find it hard to keep high-priced free-agent players in Canada, where income taxes are much higher than in the United States.
The N.H.L. and the six Canadian teams say that governments at the local, provincial and national levels must all pitch in to help the teams become more competitive financially. They ask, in their formal plan, for abatements on property taxes and the elimination of some provincial taxes, like a 10 percent amusement tax in Ontario that treats N.H.L. games as non-Canadian entertainment.
Bryden said the Senators paid more than $37 million in taxes last year. That was in addition to the cost of maintaining the Corel Center, which was built entirely with private funds, as were roads leading to the arena.
The league's proposal also calls for something entirely new: annual operating support. It would come from the sale of lottery tickets based on the outcome of N.H.L. games. League officials say the teams deserve a share of the $170 million annual pot because the games are the intellectual property of the N.H.L. and its teams.
They say that a 20 percent take would provide $34 million to be shared among the six Canadian teams. The American teams would get no share of the money under the N.H.L.'s proposal.
In Ontario's hockey lottery, the country's most popular, someone must choose at least three games, picking the winners or predicting a tie. There is no limit on how much money can be wagered on each ticket, but all three choices must be correct to win. The provincial government sets the odds.
William Daly, the N.H.L.'s senior vice president for legal affairs, said the league opposed the lotteries when they were created in the early 1990's. He bristled at the suggestion that giving the league a share of the lottery revenue amounted to a government subsidy.
"We think hockey subsidizes the Canadian Government, as we subsidize the lottery," he said.
In discussions, governmental officials have appeared willing to consider the lottery proposal, Daly said. "We think politically it's the most feasible proposal," he said. "It's a voluntary tax, so to speak."
In return for the new revenue, the league is offering to allow the provincial lotteries to use league and team logos to promote lottery sales. The N.H.L. has also promised to keep the six Canadian teams in place for the next five years and to continue several existing league programs, including one that helps Canadian teams keep their own players from being lured away by American teams. The league has provided more than $42 million to the teams since 1995, helping to offset the difference between the weak Canadian dollar and the stronger American dollar.
The early response to the N.H.L.'s plan has been mixed. Some newspaper editorials in Canada have condemned it, saying the money from the lotteries should continue to be used only for medical care and charities. Other editorials have criticized the idea of tax relief but endorsed the sharing of lottery revenue.
Ernie Eves, the Ontario Minister of Finance, who oversees his province's lottery, wrote a letter to Industry Minister Manley opposing any reduction in provincial revenue. Eves said the province could not afford to shift money from nonprofit groups to the owners of professional teams. "If the federal Government wants to provide direct cash support with the money already given to them by the provinces," Eves wrote, "that is your decision."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Ken Dryden, Toronto Maple Leafs president, Harley Hotchkiss, owner of the Calgary Flames, and Rod Bryden, chairman of the Ottawa Senators, after meeting Industry Minister John Manley in June. (Reuters)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); OTTAWA SENATORS (83%); OTTAWA SENATORS (83%); CALGARY FLAMES (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); CALGARY FLAMES (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); OTTAWA SENATORS (83%); OTTAWA SENATORS (83%); CALGARY FLAMES (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); CALGARY FLAMES (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LOTTERIES SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); LOTTERIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); CURRENCIES (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: EL-BASHIR, TARIK ROD BRYDEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



544 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Asians Worry About Cost of East Timor Role

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Trying to extricate themselves from a long-running financial crisis, Indonesia's Southeast Asian neighbors are concerned about how long their presence will be needed in East Timor and what their participation in the international force will cost them, Thailand's Foreign Minister said today.
The Foreign Minister, Surin Pitsuwan, who is in New York for the General Assembly debate, has been meeting with United Nations officials who are drawing up plans for future assistance to East Timor as it moves toward independence from Indonesia. 
 President B. J. Habibie has pledged to honor the East Timorese vote to end its relationship with Indonesia, but it is not clear when the results of that referendum will be formally recognized by the Indonesian Parliament, which assembles early next month, or whether there will be efforts by the President's political opponents to block action.
Thailand has provided the deputy commander of the force now in East Timor, Maj. Gen. Songkitti Chakkrabhat, and is likely to field the largest contingent of troops after Australia. General Songkitti was formerly Thailand's military attache in Jakarta, speaks some Bahasa Indonesia, the national language, and knows Indonesian Army leaders.
Indonesia, a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, has said from the start that it would like to see troops from neighboring countries prominent in the international force.
In addition to Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore are also contributing to the international force, but in much smaller numbers and often with specialists rather than soldiers.
Each country made its own decision because getting a consensus from the association could be complicated, said Mr. Surin, who as Thailand's Foreign Minister is the current chairman of the group, known as Asean.
"We certainly respond to the call of the international community, of the U.N. Security Council, and of Indonesia because we are in the region, because we are part of the family, as President Habibie said," Mr. Surin said in an interview.
"But the parameters must be clear -- political parameter, division of responsibility, time frame, the expense. All these have to be defined as soon as possible."
Mr. Surin said that Thais, with a strong free press and many political parties, were already asking questions about the international force and what will follow it when the United Nations takes over administration of East Timor until it can hold elections and install a government.
Costs of the interim force are expected to be borne largely by Japan and Australia, but fielding military contingents can nonetheless be a drain on national treasuries, even with outside help.
"Thais are asking about the uncertainties," Mr. Surin said. "In a free and open society, this is very legitimate."
Next week, United Nations officials will get a chance to speak about East Timor's future with the East Timorese independence leader, Jose Alexandre Gusmao, who is known as Xanana. He will be in New York next week to meet with Secretary General Kofi Annan and others.
Mr. Gusmao, a guerrilla leader arrested by Indonesia seven years ago and released last month, first sought refuge at the British Embassy in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, fearing an attack by Indonesia gangs opposed to relinquishing the territory.
Last week, he moved to Darwin, Australia, and announced that he hoped to return soon to East Timor to set up an interim government.
Mr. Surin, a Harvard graduate who once worked as a visiting fellow on Capitol Hill as a legislative aide to Geraldine A. Ferraro when she was a Representative from New York, said that Southeast Asians are also very concerned about how Indonesia is handled by the outside world during the East Timorese transition.
"We have to maintain diplomatic communications open," he said. "We have to maintain the political discussion, so that we can avoid any possible area of misunderstanding." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: THAILAND (96%); INDONESIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; THAILAND; AUSTRALIA; EAST TIMOR; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; THAILAND (96%); INDONESIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICS (75%); ARMIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA SURIN PITSUWAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



545 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Indonesia Leader Delays Enacting New Security Law
President B. J. Habibie of Indonesia, yielding to a wave of violent unrest, said he would delay signing a new security law that was rushed through Parliament. Officials said the top military commander had decided to delay enforcing the law after it became clear that protesting students were not going to back down. A1 

Foreign troops replacing the departing Indonesian soldiers staged an aggressive show of force in East Timor, sealing off and searching the city center for hours. A8
 
North Korea to Halt Tests
The North Korean Government, in an announcement that seemed to confirm recent diplomatic advances, said it would refrain from further missile tests while talks with the United States were under way. A5
 
Stolen Uranium Cache Seized
Georgia intercepted about two pounds of stolen uranium this week, underscoring the continuing danger of nuclear theft in the former Soviet Union. Experts said the nuclear material seemed to be low-enriched uranium and that the smugglers had not acquired nearly enough for an aspiring nuclear power make a bomb. A6
 
A United States-Kazakhstan project to close former Soviet nuclear test sites will set off an underground blast today in the Degelen Mountains, in the Central Asian steppes. The project is also intended to help President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev carry out his pledge to forswear the nuclear, biological and chemical weapons that Kazakhstan inherited from the Soviet Union. A1
 
Russian Strikes in Chechnya
Russian warplanes bombed oil and communications targets in the breakaway republic, and the Kremlin vowed to crush Islamic militants in the region. A6
 
Italian Acquitted of Mafia Plot
Jurors acquitted Giulio Andreotti, a towering figure in postwar politics who was Prime Minister seven times, of conspiring with the Mafia in the 1979 murder of a journalist. A3
 
Polish Workers' Discontent
Tens of thousands of farmers and workers marched through Warsaw to press the Government for better wages and job security. The protesters accused Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek's administration of ignoring the nation's problems and called for the presidential election, now set for 2001, to be moved up. A4
 
Call for End to Iraq Sanctions
Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine of France accused the United States of insensitivity to the "human disaster" in Iraq caused by economic sanctions. Iraq's Foreign Minister asserted that his country had fulfilled its obligations under the sanctions and complained that a British-Dutch draft resolution circulating among Security Council members would impose "new obligations" on Baghdad that go beyond previous resolutions. A4
 
World Briefing A7
 
NATIONAL A9-12, 16
 
Bush Chooses Sides, Asking Buchanan to Stay
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas asked Patrick J. Buchanan to stick with the Republican Party, saying, "I'm going to need every vote I can get among Republicans to win the election." Mr. Bush's remarks put him at odds with a rival, John McCain, and a growing band of Republican critics who would like Mr. Buchanan to defect to the Reform Party. A1
 
Many longtime members of the Reform Party differ over whether a Buchanan candidacy would harm their party or bring it new recognition. A10
 
Rallying Democrats for Gore
President Clinton tried to reassure fellow Democrats that Vice President Al Gore was a strong Presidential candidate, that he had an unusually positive economy to run on and that it was way too early to worry about his prospects. A11
 
House Trying Again on Taxes
The Ways and Means Committee, acting a day after President Clinton vetoed the $792 billion, 10-year Republican tax cut, approved a far smaller package of routine tax provisions, but immediately ran into more White House opposition. A10
 
Senate Sex Harassment Case
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, was accused of sexual harassment by a woman he dismissed last month as chief of staff. The Senator denied the accusation. A16
 
Court Overturns Abortion Bans
A Federal appeals court struck down laws in Nebraska, Arkansas and Iowa banning a type of late-term abortion. A12
 
College Board Moving to Web
The College Board, the nonprofit organization that administers the SAT, voted to create its first for-profit subsidiary in a move to establish a full-service Web site of its own. A1
 
Plea in Oregon Killings
Kipland P. Kinkel, the teen-ager who went on a shooting rampage last year, killing his parents and then two students at school, abandoned his insanity defense and pleaded guilty. A9
 
Religion Journal A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
City to Check Medical Files Of Applicants for Welfare
The Giuliani administration plans to search thousands of medical billing records for evidence to force welfare applicants into drug and alcohol treatment programs as a condition of receiving public assistance. A1
 
Encephalitis Diagnosis in Doubt
The mosquito-borne disease that killed three people in New York City may have been West Nile virus, which has never been diagnosed in the Western hemisphere. Health officials had thought the disease was St. Louis encephalitis. A1
 
Financing of Clintons' Home
Three former Clinton Administration officials turned down the Clintons' request to help finance a post-White House home in New York before a leading Democratic fund-raiser guaranteed the mortgage. B1
 
Preventing Moon Rock Auction
NASA, which considers moon rocks to be national treasures, seized a privately owned desk set with components believed to have been gathered on a lunar mission. B1
 
Kennedy's Will Is Disclosed
John F. Kennedy Jr. left his personal property to his sister's children and his money to a multimillion-dollar trust benefiting relatives, friends, family employees and charities. B5
 
Car Malfunction Suspected
The gas pedal of a car that plowed into a midtown Manhattan restaurant on Thursday night, killing one diner and injuring 21 people, might have been stuck, officials said. The driver tested negative for alcohol. B4
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-18
 
Jones Biography to Be Pulped
A disputed biography of John Paul Jones by the Scottish author James Mackay, who has repeatedly been accused of plagiarism, was ordered destroyed by the publisher. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Further Banking Consolidation
The Bank of Scotland mounted a $34 billion hostile bid for National Westminster Bank, an institution twice its size, in the biggest takeover attempt in British banking history. C1
 
George to Keep Publishing
George magazine, whose future was precarious even before the death of its founder and editor, John F. Kennedy Jr., will continue publishing next year, but will cut the number of issues to 10 annually from 12. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
N.H.L.'s Canada Solution
The N.H.L. wants the Canadian Government to subsidize the country's six major-league hockey teams by more than $30 million a year to keep them in Canada. A1
 
Europe Dominates on Greens
European golfers seized a big lead over a disappointing United States Ryder Cup team. D1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Striking down abortion bans; after the tax cut veto; press freedoms in Zimbabwe; the attack on campus drinking.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B17
 
TV Listings B18
 
Crossword B16
 
Weather B16 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDONESIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); GEORGIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); POLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: COLLEGE BOARD (56%); REFORM PARTY (56%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE BOARD (56%); REFORM PARTY (56%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDONESIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); GEORGIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); POLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SMUGGLING (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); CONSPIRACY (71%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); VERDICTS (63%); JURY TRIALS (63%); ACQUITTAL (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



546 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Officials To Search Records Of Drug Treatment

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration is planning to search thousands of medical billing records for evidence it can use to place welfare applicants in mandatory drug and alcohol treatment programs as a condition of receiving public assistance, city welfare officials say.
The information will be culled from computerized Medicaid insurance bills submitted in the past on behalf of applicants who have voluntarily sought treatment for drug and alcohol problems. The record search is for the applicants' own good, welfare officials said this week, and will be used to push them to finish treatment and to get jobs faster. 
 Officials say that record checks are needed because the city's current system of drug screening and testing is finding unrealistically low rates of substance abuse among welfare mothers who need help.
But privacy experts and lawyers for the poor say the record search may violate a Federal law protecting the confidentiality of drug and alcohol treatment records. They contend that the city's plan will frighten poor people from seeking treatment or benefits and will send a chilling message to anyone considering help for drug or alcohol problems.
The issue, privacy experts say, is a classic example of the conflict between public concern over the loss of privacy, especially in health care records, and public support for using computer databases to monitor or track suspect groups, like welfare recipients, illegal immigrants and parents who fail to pay child support.
Federal officials said they had no official notification of the plan. "But there are confidentiality provisions in New York's Medicaid plan, and we expect them to be followed," said Christopher H. Peacock, spokesman for the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, which oversees Medicaid records.
Jason A. Turner, Commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, said no breach of confidentiality would be involved because the billing records to be checked are submitted by drug and alcohol treatment providers to the city's Medicaid office, and both Medicaid and public assistance fall under his agency. "These are our own records," he said. "We are not interfering with the doctor-patient relationship. We're helping poor people here."
But advocates of the poor who support treatment as a condition of aid say the record search crosses the line.
"If people go into treatment thinking their records are confidential and then, lo and behold, the information is illegally disclosed, that will upset just about everybody," said Paul N. Samuels, a lawyer and the director of the Legal Action Center, a nonprofit advocacy organization that specializes in substance abuse issues and has offices in New York and Washington. "Violating confidentiality is an ambush that will drive many people away from treatment."
No date has been set to start searching applicants' records. The plan is one of several new measures introduced by Mr. Turner to meet a deadline set by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who vowed last year that by the year 2000, "New York will be the first city in the nation, on its own, to end welfare."
Mr. Giuliani, whose welfare overhaul is expected to be a centerpiece of his likely campaign for the United States Senate, did not mean an end to public assistance, Mr. Turner said. The Mayor meant that all adult recipients would be moving from welfare to work through a variety of assignments, including treatment for drug and alcohol abuse that is a barrier to employment, Mr. Turner said.
The Mayor has cited one estimate that 20 percent of all people on public aid have such substance abuse problems. Ten percent is the figure more commonly accepted by substance abuse experts. But among mothers, who are the bulk of adult recipients, only 2 percent have been identified as substance abusers through a system of screening and testing put in place two years ago, Mr. Turner said.
In several other jurisdictions around the country, including Florida and Los Angeles County, officials have also identified lower-than-expected rates of welfare mothers as substance abusers, for reasons that remain unclear. But no other state is known to be contemplating a record search like New York's, according to the Washington office of the Legal Action Center, which represents many treatment centers nationwide.
Brian J. Wing, Commissioner of the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which oversees city and county welfare operations, approved the city's record search plan, said Daniel D. Hogan, his deputy. Mr. Hogan added that some upstate counties have already conducted such searches case by case.
Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a civil liberties advocacy group based in Washington, said: "Welfare recipients are among the first to lose their privacy. But the unfortunate consequences of these tracking and matching technologies tend to make their way up the line."
A Federal law passed in the 1970's makes it a crime, with few exceptions, to disclose information about patients in drug and alcohol treatment programs without the patients' narrowly defined written consent. That consent does not allow redisclosure for any other purposes. Experts on privacy law call the measure unique and exemplary, and contrast it to the blanket consent forms allowed in the gathering of other types of health care information.
Corinne Carey, a lawyer who has studied drug testing and welfare reform nationwide, said that instead of searching records, the city should be asking why more mothers on public assistance are not being identified by the city's current screening system for substance abuse.
As tougher rules and a strong economy have combined to shrink New York City's welfare rolls to about 670,000 from 1.1 million in 1994, including children, fewer substance abusers are applying for public assistance because they cannot deal with the hurdles or meet the work requirements, said Ms. Carey, who works for the Urban Justice Center, an advocacy organization opposed to the record search. Others hide their problems from caseworkers because they fear losing their children.
And some advocates suggest drug use may actually be lower than experts thought in the younger generation of poor mothers who saw crack devastate parents or older siblings.
A different kind of explanation was offered by Bill Panepinto, an administrator in the State Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services. The substance abuse screening form used by the city was intended to be the framework for a personal interview by a trained worker, he said, but for the last two years it has instead been handed out to welfare applicants as a nine-question paper test. Those who answer yes to two or more questions are referred to certified alcohol and substance abuse counselors for further assessment, including a drug test.
Seven out of 10 welfare applicants referred to mandatory residential treatment end up cut from all assistance, said Michael Kink, legislative counsel to Housing Works, one of about 30 advocacy, legal services and provider organizations that met yesterday because of concern about the city's plan. "The sanction rate shows that this program is designed more to drive people off the rolls than to get people help," he said.
Mr. Turner vigorously defends the program's intentions. Now, he said, mothers are known to coach each other in the waiting room on how to answer the questionnaire to avoid being assigned to mandatory treatment. But treatment billing records may show they have been in and out of care many times, he said. "If you're sick and your children are at risk because you're a substance abuser," he said, "we believe it's not compassionate to ignore that fact."
Like most states, New York considered but rejected a requirement that all public assistance applicants submit to drug tests. Instead, it asks drug-use questions of all applicants, but uses physical tests only on those whose answers or behavior raise a reasonable suspicion of abuse.
Universal testing is permitted under the Federal welfare overhaul, but only Michigan is planning to use that approach, which has been widely criticized as expensive, ineffective and vulnerable to constitutional challenge. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ALCOHOL ABUSE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRIVACY SUBSTANCE ABUSE (94%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DRUG TESTING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PATIENT PRIVACY (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (74%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



547 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Reform Party Unsettled By Quest for a Nominee

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

 BODY:
After struggling to create the most successful third party in 80 years, many longtime members of the Reform Party say they are growing more fearful by the day that they will be left as virtual bystanders if Patrick J. Buchanan or another famous person decides to flood the party with supporters in pursuit of its Presidential nomination.
Others in the party, determined to become more than an asterisk in Presidential politics, say they are willing to overlook their differences with Mr. Buchanan in return for the attention and success that his candidacy could bring. Either way, party leaders agree that their nominee is almost certain to be determined by people who are not current members of the party, portending a frantic and expensive organizing contest. 
 "If Pat Buchanan brings enough people, we become the Pat Buchanan Party and there's nothing we can do about it," said Robert K. Pavlick, 52, of Bridgeport, Conn., a member of the party's national rules committee. "Their votes will far outweigh those of the indigenous Reformers. They can put all our issues on the back burner."
Wendell B. Kinney, 64, the state chairman for Maine, said many founding members feared they would be no match for Mr. Buchanan's forces. "They've been around politics a long time, and we're mostly novices," Mr. Kinney said.
In the most dramatic evidence so far of this concern, the Reform Party of New Hampshire canceled a state convention that had been scheduled for Saturday because officials said they feared a takeover by Buchanan supporters in elections for the state party's six offices.
John R. Talbott, a spokesman for Reform Party in New Hampshire, said officials learned on Wednesday that supporters of Mr. Buchanan planned to pack the convention.
"We're getting our introduction to power politics," Mr. Talbott said. "We were not happy that we had to do this, but we thought it would be best in the long run to preserve an independent and unbiased organization."
The Reform Party has never been about size: just 50,000 people voted in its nominating contest in 1996, and one leader said that Florida, for instance, has 60 active members. But because of the success of Ross Perot in 1992 and 1996, the party has automatic slots on the ballot in 20 states and is eligible to receive $12.6 million in Federal funds.
The chairman-elect, John J. Gargan, 68, of Cedar Key, Fla., said the party was vulnerable to a takeover because of what he called its "blank-check provision," a rule that allowed any registered voter to write in and get a ballot for the Presidential nominating contest, scheduled for next July.
Ballots can be cast by mail, telephone or the Internet. The results will be ratified at the party's national convention, to be in Long Beach, Calif., from Aug. 10 to 13.
Besides the voters who might be recruited by Mr. Buchanan or by old-guard members of the party, others might be recruited by Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, who has said he will work to promote a centrist candidate to counter Mr. Buchanan.
Roger Stone, a political consultant who is advising Donald J. Trump, the developer, on a possible Reform Party bid, has said Mr. Trump might use his database of 6.5 million gamblers, renters and hotel guests to reach out to potential voters.
Mr. Gargan, an ally of Governor Ventura who will take over as national party chairman in January, said that he welcomed all comers for the nomination, but that he had been warning other leaders that the nominating process seemed tailor-made for exploitation by anyone with a big mailing list.
"Our party's membership is very thin and it's spread out," he said. "We have nowhere near the resources we would need to cope with an outpouring of requests for ballots."
Mr. Gargan's concern is that some other group with a lot of supporters -- say, a gun-control group -- will decide that Mr. Buchanan should not be allowed to get the nomination, and would mobilize its own ballot drive.
The party's departing officers, who were deposed at the party's national convention in July after Governor Ventura endorsed Mr. Gargan, defended the rules as the sort of open process that they see as sorely lacking in the two major parties.
"If millions of people get up off their couch and write in for our nomination ballot, that probably means we're going to win the general election," said Michael H. Farris, 30, of Los Angeles, chairman of the Presidential nominations committee.
In Mr. Buchanan's case, a hostile takeover may not be necessary. Already, some Reform Party members are offering reasons they could support Mr. Buchanan, who reflects the party's views on many economic issues. But Mr. Buchanan is a vocal opponent of abortion while the Reform Party platform intentionally ignores social issues.
"We've always said that our members and our candidates can follow their conscience on abortion," said Elizabeth A. Christman, 35, the Maryland state chairman, who favors abortion rights. "He agrees with our economic and government reform issues, and that's what people in this party care about."
Donna Donovan, the party's national press secretary, also favors abortion rights, but was eager to defend Mr. Buchanan, saying, "The media is already starting to Perotize him -- picking on little things and finding quotes they can kind of hang on him and spin in a negative way."
Besides legions of supporters, qualifying for the nomination will require a lot of money and manpower. To be listed on the Reform ballot, a candidate must have made what the party considers significant progress toward qualifying for the general-election ballot in the states where the party does not have a slot. That can be as easy as paying a filing fee, or as complex as gathering 37,380 signatures in Texas.
Party officials said the process would probably require 600,000 signatures and, without volunteers, would cost about $6 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TAKEOVERS (64%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J PATRICK J BUCHANAN (95%); JOHN J GARGAN (69%); JESSE VENTURA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



548 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Stolen Uranium Intercepted By Georgia in the Caucasus

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 24

 BODY:
A cache of stolen uranium was intercepted by Georgian officials this week, underscoring the continuing danger of nuclear theft in the former Soviet Union.
Georgian officials said they confiscated a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of uranium-235 on Monday night just miles from the Georgian-Turkish border. 
 Experts said that the nuclear material seemed to be low-enriched uranium and that the smugglers had not acquired nearly enough to help anyone make a bomb.
Low-enriched uranium is far less of a worry than highly enriched uranium, which can be used to make nuclear bombs. But low-enriched uranium can be processed to make a smaller quantity of high-enriched uranium.
The episode indicates that trafficking in nuclear materials remains a major worry. It also suggests that there has been a breakdown in controls at a nuclear power plant or fuel-fabrication factory, probably in Russia or Ukraine. Georgian scientists insist that the nuclear material did not originate in their country and that Georgia was simply being used as a transit point.
"The good news is that the Georgian authorities were paying attention to the problem of nuclear smuggling and did something about it," an American official said. "The bad news is the uranium found its way into the black market. It is important to keep this material locked up."
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, there has been enormous concern about nuclear theft but relatively few documented cases of diversions of nuclear materials.
One of the most significant incidents occurred in Prague in 1994, when the authorities there confiscated 2.7 kilograms of highly enriched uranium, which is believed to have originated in Russia.
While there have been no major smuggling cases in recent years, Western officials have been concerned that the economic crisis in Russia and neighboring republics would lead to a new series of thefts.
The Georgian authorities said the case began with Valiko Chkmivadze, a 60-year-old Georgian. The authorities said today that they had kept a close watch on Mr. Chkmivadze because he was previously detained by Turkey on suspicion of trading in nuclear material.
The Georgian police followed him and two other Georgians as they drove to Batumi, near the Georgian-Turkish border on Monday. They were arrested with the uranium.
The uranium has been sent to a closed research reactor outside Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, for safekeeping. The Tbilisi reactor has a storage area equipped with a sophisticated alarm system that was installed by the United States several years ago.
Because of the concern about keeping nuclear material in the volatile Caucasus, highly enriched uranium and a cache of spent radioactive fuel was flown by United States Air Force planes to Britain in 1998.
The material confiscated in Batumi this week has not yet been analyzed. But it appears to be low-enriched uranium fuel pellets for a nuclear power plant, according to Georgian and American experts.
Zurab Salaridze, the deputy director of the Institute of Physics in Georgia, said in an interview that the cache consisted of 219 small dark-color tablets. The cylindrical tablets are one centimeter high and seven millimeters in diameter.
"A nuclear weapon cannot be made with low enriched uranium," said Matthew Bunn, a nuclear expert at Harvard University. "But a sufficient quantity of such material could greatly reduce the amount of work required to make weapons-grade uranium."
An American official added, "If Iran somehow managed to obtain 100 or 200 kilograms of lower-enriched uranium we would have something to worry about."
Still, even the confiscation of one kilogram has prompted concerns. One question is whether the Georgians have seized all of the stolen supply or whether other material is available on the black market or had seeped out of the former Soviet Union.
Another concern is the origin of the uranium and whether its appearance on the black market indicated that nuclear controls in the former Soviet Union were fraying.
"I would guess that it came from Ukraine or Russia," said William C. Potter, the director of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey, Calif. "Low-enriched uraniuim fuel does not constitute a significant proliferation hazard. The significance of this case is that it indicates there is traffic in radioactive materials."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Georgia showing location of Batumi: Georgia confiscated about two pounds of uranium at Batumi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TURKEY (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TURKEY (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SMUGGLING; URANIUM SMUGGLING (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARRESTS (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



549 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Asked Ex-Aides' Help To Buy House

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
In the tense days and hours before and after they signed an agreement to buy a white house in Chappaqua, N.Y., for $1.7 million, President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton sought financial assistance from former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and two former White House chiefs of staff, according to several people with knowledge of the arrangement.
But Mr. Rubin, as well as the chiefs of staff, Thomas F. McLarty 3d and Erskine B. Bowles, declined to help the Clintons buy the first home they will own since 1983, several people with knowledge of the requests said today. They said that Mr. Bowles had originally committed to being the guarantor but declined on Sept. 1, just three days after the Clintons signed an agreement to buy the house under the condition their loan would be guaranteed. 
 The couple then quickly put out feelers to Mr. Rubin and Mr. McLarty before finally asking Terry McAuliffe, the prolific Democratic fund-raiser, who agreed to guarantee the Clintons' mortgage by depositing $1.35 million in the bank as collateral.
The McAuliffe guarantee was criticized by Republicans and public watchdog groups because Mr. McAuliffe is also raising millions for the Clintons' legal defense fund, the Clinton Presidential library to be built in Little Rock, Ark., and the First Lady's all-but-certain Senate campaign in New York State. Now, three people knowledgeable about the matter say, the Clintons are considering seeking a mortgage from a different lender who would not require collateral. That would eliminate Mr. McAuliffe's role.
It had not been known publicly that the Clintons, apparently through intermediaries, had sought help from both Mr. Rubin and Mr. McLarty. The Washington Post previously reported that Mr. Bowles had agreed, then refused to assist the Clintons before Mr. McAuliffe stepped in earlier this month to put up his own money to cover the full value of the Clintons' mortgage with Bankers Trust.
None of the three would comment on the matter and it was not clear why they all turned the Clintons down. Mr. McAuliffe also would not comment.
The Clintons, indebted by $5 million in legal bills, have slightly more than $1 million in assets, according to their most recent financial disclosure report, made public in May.
Leaders of several public watchdog groups said that the refusals by Mr. McLarty and Mr. Rubin demonstrate that the favor done by Mr. McAuliffe was even more important to the Clintons than anyone had first realized. "This is a President who has never had any compunction about going around with a tin cup," said Charles Lewis, the founder and executive director of the Center for Public Integrity. "Most people would have a very, very difficult time asking someone to write a check for $1.3 million."
The approaches to Mr. Clinton's friends were deliberately indirect. Mr. Rubin, for example, was never asked outright to help the Clintons finance the house. Instead, according to one person familiar with the delicate dance, he received a quiet inquiry about whether he would be receptive to a direct appeal. But he demurred, and the subject never came up again.
Mr. Rubin declined to discuss the matter, except to say, "I spent six and a half years in the Administration and I never discussed the President's business during that time and I'm going to stick to that policy now."
Mr. Rubin, the chief architect of the Clinton Administration's economic policy, resigned from the Cabinet in July. Before joining the Administration, he was co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, the investment banking firm, and reported making $26.5 million in 1992. Several years ago, his net worth, mostly in family trusts, was estimated to be $100 million.
Mr. McLarty, a close friend of Mr. Clinton since they attended kindergarten together in Hope, Ark., declined through a spokesman to comment on the matter. Using Mr. McLarty's nickname, his assistant, Carl Lingenfelter, said, "Mack does not want to comment on any of his private conversations with the President or the First Lady." Mr. McLarty's net worth was recently estimated to be $107 million. Last year, he sold a 51 percent interest in his 19 auto dealerships in Arkansas to Asbury Automotive Group of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Bowles did not return several calls this week. A longtime confidant of Mr. Clinton, he is a general partner at the New York buyout firm of Forstmann Little & Company. In his 1997 financial disclosure report, Mr. Bowles estimated his family's net worth at $30 million to $60 million.
Two people close to the Clintons said today that the couple was now considering taking out a mortgage with another bank that will not require collateral. The Clintons intend to put down $350,000 as a deposit, or more than 20 percent of the cost. Jim Kennedy, a spokesman for the White House counsel's office, declined to comment.
The Clintons' unorthodox financing arrangement has drawn harsh criticism from several Republicans, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, who, like the First Lady, is considering a bid for United States Senate next year. "A million-three is a lot of money; somebody putting it in the bank for you is quite unusual," Mr. Giuliani said last week on his radio show.
One person close to the First Family said that the Clintons, especially Mrs. Clinton, had been genuinely concerned that they might not qualify for a mortgage. In August, several mortgage lenders contacted by The New York Times said that despite the Clintons' enormous legal bills, the couple would have no problem qualifying for an unsecured mortgage because they would almost certainly earn millions of dollars from book contracts, speaking engagements and service on corporate boards.
The white-shingled, five-bedroom house in Chappaqua that the Clintons are buying had been shown to the public only three days by its owners, Dr. Jeffrey Weisberg and his wife, Cheryl. They then invited closed bids, which were opened at 3 P.M. on Sunday, Aug. 29. Not long afterward, the Clintons, who were at the time on vacation in the Hamptons, were informed that the Weisbergs were prepared to sell the house to them.
But of the eight bids submitted on the house, the Clintons had tied with another bidder for the highest price, $1.7 million, one person with knowledge of the deal said today. It was not until the following Wednesday, Sept. 1, that the Clintons learned that Mr. Bowles had decided not to back the loan. The Clintons then quickly tried to find someone else to back the mortgage. As they put out feelers to Mr. Rubin and Mr. McLarty, the Clintons worried that they might not find a guarantor and could lose the house.
"It weighed very heavily on Hillary," said one person close to the Clintons. "She was very worried that they were going to lose the house. She was distraught."
On Thursday, Sept. 2, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton, who were vacationing just outside Syracuse, asked Mr. McAuliffe personally for his help. Mr. McAuliffe and the President had played golf together that day. Mr. McAuliffe did not hesitate to help, this individual said.
"Terry would do anything for them," this person said. "He clearly knew there were consequences to helping them and that he would put himself in harm's way, but he was ready to take the heat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A loan guarantee from a fund-raiser that allowed the Clintons to buy this house in Chappaqua, N.Y., has been criticized by watchdog groups. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); LIBRARIES (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; VAN NATTA, DON JR; RUBIN, ROBERT E; MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D; BOWLES, ERSKINE B; MCAULIFFE, TERRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); ERSKINE BOWLES (89%); JERRY LEWIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



550 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: President? Why Not? Says a Man at the Top

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump was sitting in his office on the 26th floor of the Trump Tower the other afternoon, with Central Park stretching out 50 blocks behind him, and a desktop of newspaper clippings spilling out in front of him, all addressing Mr. Trump's latest venture: Presidential politics. And in case anyone finds the notion of President Trump unsettling, the real estate developer and casino owner was prepared with evidence to validate his potential candidacy.
There was, for one, the laudatory column that appeared on the op-ed page of The Washington Post by Richard Cohen. And there was, Mr. Trump related in the next breath, a poll conducted by The National Enquirer of 100 Americans (about one-tenth of the sample size of the standard-issue national poll) that found, as he put it, that the nation appears to be clamoring for this famous New Yorker to get into this race. 
 "Those are the real people," Mr. Trump declared of the Enquirer readers, earnestly laying his hands across his desk. Roger Stone, his paid consultant, who was sitting across the desk, offering Mr. Trump the occasional pointer during the 45-minute interview, added, "That is the Trump constituency."
It had to happen. In an era when, it seems, everyone seems to think that he or she can be President of the United States -- actors and wrestlers, billionaires and governors -- Mr. Trump is trying to determine whether there is a place in American political life for a rogue: a developer, casino operator and proudly public womanizer. Characteristically, Mr. Trump, who at 53 has never run for office before, has decided to begin at the top, contemplating offering himself as the Reform Party's candidate for President.
"I build the best buildings, and I'm the biggest developer in New York by far," Mr. Trump observed, shrugging off a question about his own preparedness for office. "While that's real estate and this is politics, are they really so different?"
In truth, Mr. Trump's new adventure is shaping up as more than another high-profile chapter in the life of a man who was described by Howard Rubenstein, the warhorse New York public relations consultant and former Trump counselor, as "probably the most flamboyant promotion person I have met in my 45 years in the business."
Given his private fortune, personal bravado and name recognition, Mr. Trump might become the presumably witting tool by which a faction of the Reform Party prevents Patrick J. Buchanan, who is a Republican, from running as its Presidential candidate. If he succeeds in blocking Mr. Buchanan, it could be a welcome turn of events for Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the leading candidate for the Republican nomination, who could do without the drain of conservative votes that a Buchanan candidacy would bring.
Beyond the convoluted internal politics of the Reform Party, Mr. Trump's emergence suggests the extent to which celebrity and money are transforming politics these days. Mr. Trump has never before displayed much interest in politics, and professional politicians have never expressed much interest in Mr. Trump, his checkbook excepted.
Mr. Trump, who hates the mandatory political practice of shaking hands (he described it as "barbaric" and unsanitary), recoiled at a question of whether he might visit New Hampshire and Iowa to measure whatever popular support he has. "I don't really think it is as necessary as people seem to think," he said.
Mr. Trump says that his ultimate decision -- which he says he will make within three months -- will be guided only by a determination of whether he can win, which in turn would mean a determination that the economy will be bad next year, so voters will be open to a third-party candidacy. And asked to present the basic rationale for a Trump candidacy -- why someone might vote for him -- Mr. Trump offered a response that seems certain to distinguish him from the rest of the field.
"There has been a lack of spirit in the country with respect to what's going on," Mr. Trump said, tapping his fingers on the desk and glancing at a wall lined with pictures of, well, you know. "Obviously. Things are starting to look a little bit queasy. People are worried about the 2000 phenomenon. The Y2K. And I don't know that I am. Because I don't think I am particularly. But you know, they think the computers are going to come out and gobble and destroy the world. I'm not a believer in that.
"I mean, some very bad things and some very good things can happen over the next year," he continued. "I really think whoever is the Reform Party candidate is, I've always felt that the Reform Party itself is a much more potent party in bad times than in good times."
Mr. Trump is a registered Republican, who describes himself, adopting the formula that has become so popular among Northeast Republicans, as moderate on social issues (he's for abortion rights) and conservative on fiscal issues (he supports big tax cuts, especially for the rich). Issues aside -- and this seems likely to be an issues-aside kind of candidacy -- Mr. Trump is presenting himself as a personality unlike what Americans have been accustomed to in the White House.
For example, Mr. Trump disapproves of President Clinton's behavior in the White House over the last four years, though he suggested that he was bothered less by what Mr. Clinton did than by whom he did it with. "It was his choice," Mr. Trump said. "It was Monica! I mean, terrible choice." Mr. Trump, who showed off fashion magazines displaying cover art of the latest in a line of models he has dated, suggested that if Mr. Clinton had confessed an improper relationship (Mr. Trump offered a more earthy phrase to get the idea across) with a supermodel, as opposed to a White House intern, "he would have been everybody's hero."
"I'm not making any justification for cheating on your wife," added Mr. Trump, whose own extracurricular marital activities have been a tabloid staple.
From there, Mr. Trump volunteered a confessional apparently intended to clear up any issues that might arise in a Trump candidacy.
"You know, my social life is a very active one," he said, with uncharacteristic understatement. "So I can truly say I never took a drug in my life. I never had a cup of coffee in my life. I never had a cigarette in my life. And I never had a drink in my life. I never had a glass of alcohol.
"When it comes to women -- I've been out with lots of beautiful women, O.K.?" he continued. "I guess we all have our Achilles' heel. There's nothing like -- I love women."
Whether Mr. Trump is serious about running for President is the matter of some debate. For one thing, he happens to have a book coming out in January, just about the time when he plans to announce his intentions. For another, Mr. Trump is a man who has a better command of self-promotion than, well, most politicians. Mr. Trump is very much enjoying the publicity he has received since associates of Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, who has become Ross Perot's rival in the Reform Party, suggested Mr. Trump as a possible alternative candidate to Mr. Buchanan, after Mr. Trump and Mr. Ventura met at a Wrestlemania event in Atlantic City.
Now, Mr. Trump said, he would move to the next phase of his pre-campaign campaign, which is to determine whether he could really win the Presidency. Mr. Trump said he plans "to sell myself," as he put it, describing what politicians more typically refer to as "campaigning."
"These guys have been politicking for a long time," he said. "Whereas, I've been building for a long time. I think over the next several months I'll make the determination as to whether getting out there and getting on the stump -- as you would say -- could give me enough votes to win."
Mr. Trump, whose net worth has been estimated at $1.5 billion, and who has never shown any hesitancy to spend money to advance his name or career, said he would spend whatever it took to finance his campaign. That said, it appeared that he may not have given much consideration to the nittier and grittier side of getting on the stump: The 16-hour days, the run of $50-a-night hotel rooms, the bad food, the repetitive questions by voters and reporters.
Whatever his final decision, Mr. Trump said he saw nothing wrong with trying to enter the profession at such an elevated level. "Well, I know what working your way up -- I mean, look," Mr. Trump responded, gesturing around at a windowed expanse of an office that, truthfully, makes the Oval Office seem a little ordinary. "I mean, if you look at Ronald Reagan, who I happen to think was a great President, look at where he came from."
Reminded that Mr. Reagan served as Governor of California after finishing his years in Hollywood, Mr. Trump settled back into his chair for a moment. "You know, I feel that I've been in politics all my life," he said. "I'm sure that lots of people will come out, and be very harsh, and unfairly harsh. But I have been very much an open book. I mean, one thing, people know who I am. While I haven't been public, I am public."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Trump, shown in a 1996 photograph, is trying to decide whether there is a place in American politics for a rogue -- one with Presidential aspirations. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); REFORM PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CASINOS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



551 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: One Last Explosion At Kazakh Test Site To Aid Arms Treaty

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: KURCHATOV, Kazakhstan

 BODY:
Here under the desolate Degelen Mountains in the wind-swept Central Asian steppes, the Soviet Union detonated more than 400 nuclear explosions during the cold war that helped it perfect the world's largest arsenal of nuclear weapons.
If all goes well, at noon on Saturday, Sept. 25, the earth is expected to reverberate once more with the seismic shock waves of an underground blast with the force of 100 tons of TNT. 
 But this time, the explosion in the next-to-last tunnel of an underground maze that once crisscrossed the world's largest nuclear test range will be conventional, not nuclear. And its goal is to insure that this site will be used for war no more. Scientists say the blast will also help them identify and measure secret underground nuclear tests conducted by, say, India, Pakistan and China or by rogue states.
"North Korea is full of tunnels," said a senior Pentagon official.
Since 1994, the United States and Kazakhstan have quietly collaborated on a series of ambitious projects worth more than $170 million, financed by Washington, to help the now independent Government of President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev carry out his pledge to forswear the nuclear, biological and chemical weapons that Kazakhstan inherited from the Soviet Union. But this security relationship, which American officials describe as the closest they have with any former Soviet republic, is now roiled by recent disclosures of the sale of more than 30 MIG-21 fighter jets to North Korea for $8 million.
While Kazakh officials lobby to dissuade Washington from imposing economic sanctions that would cost their country $75 million in annual foreign aid and jeopardize the close security ties, scientists here at the Semipalatinsk test range, roughly the size of Indiana, are struggling to stop impoverished Kazakh scavengers from stealing copper and other precious minerals from the radioactive tunnels. A large amount of irradiated copper was sold to China by a private Kazakh company three years ago, prompting a protest from Beijing, Kazakh officials said.
"We've told people in surrounding villages a hundred times how dangerous it is to touch this metal, but what can we do when people are hungry?" said Murat Akhmetov, director of the Institute of Radiation, Safety and Ecology in Kurchatov, the once secret nuclear city of 30,000 which has shrunk to one third its former size. "Scavenging irradiated copper is as self-defeating as selling MIG's to rogue states."
The extraordinary "calibration" experiment scheduled for Saturday is the second of three tests intended to accompany the closing and sealing of the last of 181 tunnels here at the Degelen Mountains, where the Soviet Union conducted hundreds of underground blasts after atmospheric testing was banned in 1963.
Hundreds of people have been involved in preparing for Omega 2, as the blast is known. In addition to implanting seismic monitors in a tunnel on the eastern side of the mountain range and its drift, Kazakh and American scientists painted rocks and joints inside the tunnels bright red, green, yellow and white.
Vladimir Kovalev, director of the Degelen Mountain complex, said the paint will enable scientists to assess how the blast shatters, moves and distributes the rocks.
"You are standing in one of only 15 'clean' tunnels where nuclear tests were not conducted," said Dr. Kovalev, as he walked carefully through a part of the tunnel that will soon become rubble.
More than five miles of copper-lined cable was laid to provide power to the electronic sensors and monitors buried deep inside the shafts. Sandbags were placed along the tunnel walls to protect the instruments from the blast's full force. Near the end of the tunnel, the scientists scooped out a huge cavity some 20 feet in diameter that now holds the explosives and the detonation charge. The test chamber's floor has been painted blood red.
Walking through these vast underground passageways, whose multi-colored coats of paint are illuminated by slightly iridescent lamps affixed to the rock walls, is like exploring a surreal mine shaft decorated by a mad finger painter. The air is dank and moldy. The railway track that carried equipment and construction materials deep inside the mountain is now covered with gravel and loose rock.
"It was tough for us at first to do this work," said Dr. Kovalev, who came to Kurchatov 30 years ago to build these channels of death. "It's not psychologically easy to destroy what you helped build."
But a week before the blast, Dr. Kovalev supervised the loading of 100 tons of chemical explosives into the test chamber. The instruments placed in 11 bore holes that were dug from or near the chamber into a lower tunnel, the drift, were re-checked. The video cameras situated just inside the tunnel portals were switched on to insure that they, too, functioned properly.
On "D-Day," or Detonation Day, police and army units sent to aid the hundreds of engineers, scientists, technicians and guards who prepared for this test will fan out through the site, insuring that the area immediately around the tunnel is clear of people except the scientists and security guards charged with detonating the explosives and monitoring the test from stationary and mobile control centers at designated control points.
For this test, as for the first one, called Omega 1, at another tunnel in August 1998, scientists from Kazakhstan's National Nuclear Center, their 20 American counterparts -- including participants from the United States nuclear test site at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in Nevada and from the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University -- as well as observers from Russia and France, will be on hand to help monitor or interpret test results.
Given the low labor costs here, American and Kazakh scientists agreed that conducting similar tests at the Nevada site would cost 10 times as much as the $2.3 million that these calibration tests are expected to cost.
Luke Kluchko, a Pentagon program manager for the test, wrote in an in-house Defense Department newsletter that the last Omega test produced high-quality seismic records as far as 3,700 miles away. Yuri Cherepnin, director general of the National Nuclear Center, where some 2,000 former Kazakh nuclear scientists and technicians now work on nonproliferation, said he expected seismic stations in the same range as those in the Omega test to be able to detect the Saturday blast.
The "calibration" experiment is rooted in a series of Kazakh-American agreements signed in 1994 to help Kazakhstan get rid of not only its weapons of mass destruction, but also the infrastructure that supported them. Since then, Kazakh and American officials have quietly removed more than a thousand nuclear weapons, closed the giant missile silos once occupied by SS-18 Mirved Soviet ICBM's, converted key biological weapons production centers, and spirited more than 1,300 pounds of highly enriched, weapons-grade uranium out of the country. Other major projects are under way or being planned.
"Kazakhstan has taken unprecedented steps to advance nonproliferation and become a model of arms control for Central Asia and other regions," said Vladimir S. Shkolnik, the Minister of Science, a Russian physicist and veteran of the old Soviet nuclear program here.
As part of that effort, Washington agreed in October 1995 to spend $20 million blowing up and sealing the 181 horizontal tunnels, each a mile and a half long on average, as well as numerous vertical bore holes, each 1,000 to 1,650 feet deep, that are situated on the Balapan test site, near the granite-filled Degelen Mountains, whose hard rock geology makes them perfect for underground weapons tests. So far, 179 tunnels have been blasted and sealed.
In closing the tunnels in which the Soviets conducted hundreds of tests, Washington sensed opportunity. So did the international agency created to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Washington pledged an extra $1.2 million for the first two calibration experiments in the last remaining tunnels. The independent monitors of the test ban treaty, whose Vienna-based organization is affiliated with the United Nations, provided another $80,000 to see whether an international team of inspectors who are expected to arrive at test site nine days after the blast will be able to identify its precise location.
Don A. Linger, a deputy for technical programs at the Pentagon's Defense Threat Reduction Agency outside Washington, said the measurements from the tests would enable seismic stations throughout the world to "calibrate" their equipment and help scientists distinguish between a natural event, like an earthquake, and a bomb test.
The distinction is not always obvious, he added, noting that seismologists were divided, say, over what kind of nuclear test India conducted last year, as well as its strength.
Dr. Cherepnin said he hoped that the United States and other observers would eventually support research to measure contamination levels at this sprawling test range. Soil samples taken at different areas of the test range, he said, "show the existence of plutonium residues that exceed the acknowledged levels by 100 times." But Kazakhstan, he added, cannot afford to conduct such tests.
While the precise levels of contamination have not been measured, Kazakh scientists are painfully aware of some of the adverse health and environmental effects of some four decades of nuclear tests in the Semipalatinsk region, the first decade of which were conducted above ground.
According to a 1998 United Nations report, much of the test site is contaminated by cesium-137 and strontium-90. Local studies attribute several lethal and debilitating illnesses, including high rates of cancer, to radiation from the tests. Kazakhstan estimates that 1.2 million people in and around the test site received above normal doses of radiation.
But the United Nations team that visited here last year had difficulty distinguishing between adverse health effects produced by the tests, which was limited to underground explosions after 1963, and those stemming from the impoverishment of Kurchatov and other towns and villages in the Semipalatinsk area due to the end of nuclear testing in 1991.
Half the buildings in Kurchatov, named for the father of the Soviet atomic bomb, now stand abandoned or crumbling. The once elegant, tree-lined streets are filled with potholes and buckled pavement. For much of the harsh winter, there is neither reliable heat nor electricity.
Given this region's dependence on foreign assistance and technical cooperation with the West, Kazakh scientists here were particularly furious about recent disclosures that some senior Kazakh officials either approved or failed to stop the sale of 30-year-old Soviet jet fighters to North Korea.
"It is a freaky accident that does not reflect Government policy," said Dr. Shkolnik, the Science Minister, who noted that two senior officials had lost their jobs over the incident. "But it has undoubtedly hurt our country's image. I hope it will not jeopardize tests like these and the close cooperation that benefit both Kazakhstan and America."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Technicians and scientists inside the Degelen Mountains in Kazakhstan prepare to destroy the 181st of 182 tunnels used to test Soviet nuclear weapons. The walls have been painted to assess how the blast shatters. (Shamil Zhumatov for The New York Times)(pg A6)
 
Map of Kazakhstan showing location of Kurchatov: Data from a blast in Kurchatov may help monitor nuclear tests. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KAZAKHSTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN; KAZAKHSTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; EARTHQUAKES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXPLOSIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH VLADIMIR KOVALEV (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



552 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 4;Column 6;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: France Calls U.S. Callous For Allowing Iraq to Suffer

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine of France today accused the United States of insensitivity to the "human disaster" in Iraq caused by economic sanctions.
"The United States is insensitive to the human catastrophe under way in Iraq," Mr. Vedrine told reporters during a breakfast meeting. "Iraq is not just made up of Saddam Hussein himself," he said. "There are men, women, and children, a whole society which is being destroyed." 
 Mr. Vedrine, who is here for the General Assembly's annual debate, said that Iraq poses no threat now, but could again. He said a new monitoring system was needed so that President Hussein does not revive his programs to develop biological, chemical and nuclear weapons.
The United Nations has not had inspectors working in Iraq since last December, when they were pulled out before the United States and Britain launched punitive air strikes.
The Iraqi Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, speaking to the General Assembly today, insisted that Iraq had fulfilled its obligations and complained that a new British-Dutch draft resolution circulating among Security Council members would impose "new obligations" on Baghdad.
Mr. Sahaf did not identify the obligations. But he said that the Security Council, in the course of 40 sessions reviewing Iraq's performance, "failed not only in taking a decision to lift the comprehensive embargo, but to ease it by even 1 percent."
He also accused the United States of "doubling the sufferings of the people of Iraq" by refusing to end the sanctions. He referred to a recent survey by the United Nations Children's Fund that found that mortality rates had more than doubled among Iraqi infants and children under 5 years old since 1989, the year before the Security Council imposed the first sanctions.
James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said it was not the United Nations sanctions but Saddam Hussein who inflicted deprivation on ordinary Iraqis. "We are quite sensitive to their suffering," Mr. Rubin said. "That is why we instituted the oil-for-food program that has bought billions of dollars of food and medicine.
"But we're also sensitive to the dangers that could come from allowing Saddam Hussein and his mad military machine access to additional funds," Mr. Rubin continued, "and we hope that everyone is as sensitive as they should be to that danger. It is that danger that the U.N. sanctions are designed to contain."
The program allows Iraq to sell a limited amount of oil to pay for food, medicine and other necessities. He said that Iraq has sold about $5 billion worth of oil in the past three years, and charged that the United Nations had taken most of the proceeds to subsidize inspections and to compensate Kuwait.
The Security Council imposed the first sanctions on Iraq after its forces occupied Kuwait in August 1990. Subsequent resolutions made lifting of sanctions conditional upon Baghdad's compliance in destroying its weapons of mass destruction and not making more. President Hussein has refused to open Iraq to unrestricted inspections.
President Hussein has refused to cooperate unless the sanctions are lifted, a position that his Foreign Minister stuck to today. But Prime Minister Tariq Aziz was quoted today in Baghdad as taking a more conciliatory approach. According to Reuters, Mr. Aziz said that Iraq would consider accepting a "serious easing" of sanctions if a total repeal could not be achieved.
The United States insists that Iraq give inspectors unimpeded access before sanctions are suspended. But the draft resolution put forward by Britain and the Netherlands, and backed by the United States, reportedly envisions raising the cap on Iraqi oil exports and suspending sanctions on some imports for periods of a few months, under strict United Nations supervision.
France, Russia and China have generally balked at the resolution as too inflexible. But Mr. Vedrine seemed to be positioning France to bridge the gap between the United States and Britain on one side, and Russia and China on the other.
If the United States and Britain agreed on a joint position with France, Mr. Vedrine said, "the Russians and the Chinese will agree with us." The French Foreign Minister said that the prospect of ending sanctions could give Baghdad an incentive to cooperate with fresh teams of weapons inspectors.
The United States insists that sanctions cannot end until the inspectors certify that Iraq is rid of weapons of mass destruction. The French Foreign Minister said such proof could not be found. "You can check that there aren't any missiles anymore," he said, "but it is impossible to make sure that there isn't one little flask of biological or chemical product left." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about United Nations sanctions against Iraq misattributed the accusation that the United Nations has taken most of the money from Iraqi oil sales in the last three years and used it to subsidize arms inspections and to compensate Kuwait for Iraq's invasion of that country. The charge was made by Iraq's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, not by James P. Rubin, the spokesman for the United States State Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); KUWAIT (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); KUWAIT (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1999



553 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: The Prophet of Terre Haute

BYLINE: By Adam Shatz; Adam Shatz is a contributing writer to Lingua Franca.

 BODY:

Harp Song
 for a Radical
 The Life and Times
 of Eugene Victor Debs.
 By Marguerite Young.
 Edited by Charles Ruas.
 599 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $35. 
 "Every man has his natural place," Jean-Paul Sartre wrote in his memoir "The Words." "It is not pride or worth that settles its height: childhood decides everything." The Indiana-born writer Marguerite Young, who died four years ago at the age of 87, spent most of her adult life in Greenwich Village, where she was often seen in the company of Truman Capote, Carson McCullers and Dylan Thomas. But when Young sat at her typewriter in her apartment on Bleecker Street, she revisited her "natural place" -- her native Indiana, whose capital, Indianapolis, she remembered as "the Athens of the West."
In 1945, a year after settling in New York, Young published "Angel in the Forest," a lyrical paean to the Christian socialist communities of New Harmony, Ind. Two decades later, she set off tremors in the literary world with "Miss MacIntosh, My Darling," a modernist prose experiment of nearly 1,200 pages. The "Infinite Jest" of 1965, the novel is Vera Cartwheel's feverish remembrance of her earthy Midwestern nursemaid, Miss MacIntosh. Writing in these pages, William Goyen pronounced it "a work of stunning magnitude and beauty," and declared that Young's "arrival must be proclaimed."
Yet hardly had Young arrived when she disappeared into her next project: a biography of the Indiana-born Socialist labor leader Eugene V. Debs. The book consumed the remainder of her life. At the time of her death, the manuscript ran well over 2,000 pages, and Young had barely reached the strike Debs led in 1894 against the Pullman Car Company. (Debs lived another 32 years.) "Harp Song for a Radical" has been published at a more manageable 599 pages -- a rather extreme pruning, and one that raises questions about its resemblance to the original. Still, the editor, Charles Ruas, has respected the voraciously expansive nature of Young's writing instead of zeroing in on a central narrative.
In fact, Debs scarcely appears in the first 150 pages, which are a tribute to the European visionaries of the 19th century who landed in America with little more than "utopian scrolls and perhaps an angel's foot or an angel's spare wing." Afterward, Young uses Debs mainly as a springboard to discuss figures like Abraham Lincoln, Alan Pinkerton, the Molly Maguires and Jesse James. She thinks it immensely significant, for instance, that Lincoln's son became a lawyer for Pullman, Debs's foe, and that Pinkerton, the detective whose name was synonymous with antilabor espionage, was a teen-age labor agitator in Glasgow. Such details add little to our understanding of Debs, apart from imbuing his life with an aura of destiny.
Debs has been the subject of several biographies, most recently Nick Salvatore's meticulous 1982 account, "Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and Socialist." "Harp Song" is less a biography than a novel of a lugubriously allegorical sort, steeped in religious imagery. The backdrop is America's forgotten civil war -- the war over the organization of work that erupted shortly after Reconstruction. Young openly declares her allegiance, characterizing Debs's era as "a period of cannibalism throughout the American nation when the rich industrialists and railroad lords ate the poor people." The story has a fable-like simplicity, jumping didactically from the roundup of the Haymarket anarchists to the railway baron Jay Gould "in his private Pullman palace car . . . equipped with rifles for shooting Indians, anarchists, tramps, strikers, buffalo herds, whatever moved."
If class conflict is for Young a modern passion play, Debs is its Christ figure. The temptation to see him in mythic terms is understandable. The leader of the American Socialist Party, Debs was an unyielding critic of economic injustice, a precocious supporter of women's rights and an outspoken opponent of racism. Born in 1855, he was named after Eug<heart>ne Sue and Victor Hugo by his Alsatian parents, who ran a grocery store in Terre Haute. A paint scraper on the railways at 14, he rose to prominence in the 1880's as the leader of the American Railway Union.
A wiry, intense man whose powers of oratory went virtually unmatched in American life until Martin Luther King Jr., Debs ran for President on the Socialist ticket five times -- once from prison, where he had been confined for opposing World War I. In 1912, he received nearly a million votes, 6 percent of those cast. In America as in Europe, Socialism seemed to represent one possible future, and Debs provided it with a human face. And a proudly American face it was: Debs invoked the Founding Fathers far more than he did Marx and Engels, and that was his appeal to the workers across the country who knew him as "the Unpurchasable" -- a title no labor leader has held since.
Young wonders mystically "if there was such a thing as his awakening, if it had not been his from the day when he was born." On the contrary: Debs was anything but a born radical. He embraced trade unionism gradually, and Socialism with even greater hesitation. As an organizer for the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen in the 1870's, Debs preached Christian moral uplift and opposed strikes as a threat to labor-management harmony. Before declaring himself a Socialist in 1897, Debs went through various ideological incarnations, from Democratic Party politician to free-silver Populist.
Young also portrays Debs as an ideal husband, "unable to understand . . . any man's infidelity to his wife." True, Debs was a man of nearly unbending political principle. While campaigning for President in 1900, he slept upright on long train trips rather than travel on a Pullman car. When he was freed from prison in 1922, he donated his release allowance of $5 to Sacco and Vanzetti's defense team. The private Debs, however, was a morally troubled man, given to hard drinking and racked by depression. Miserable with his wife, Kate, a social climber who was no less miserable being married to a Socialist, he was a frequent visitor to the brothels of Terre Haute. Young praises Debs for refusing, in his years as a city councilman, to fine the town's prostitutes: "the poor Magdalenes of the streets -- had not Christ associated with them?" Debs's knowledge of les demoiselles de Terre Haute was, indeed, biblical, but not in the sense Young supposes.
Young is not the first writer to connect Debs to religious themes. Though not a believer, Debs was profoundly influenced by the symbolism of evangelical Protestantism. He often referred to the "martyred Christ of the working class," and described himself as having been "baptized in Socialism." What makes Young's book an object of fascination is that it reads like a sermon -- like an obsessive, oracular 19th-century text discovered in someone's attic.
The true subject of "Harp Song" is not so much Debs as the Midwest itself, a land haunted by the "wanton slaughter of the feathered red men" and the death of the pre-Marxist utopias. For Young, the Midwest was a "fanatic state of mind" extending to "Xanadu, India, Byzantium, China, the Lost Atlantis, everywhere, 12 unseen moons shining over the planet Jupiter." In "Harp Song," she does not reach Byzantium, much less Jupiter, but she gets close. This is not a book for those curious about the particulars of labor strife -- the campaign for an eight-hour workday is not mentioned until page 475 -- or about Debs's legacy in our post-Socialist age. It is theology, not politics, that fires Young's imagination. She is interested in Debs only insofar as he can be made to illustrate her idiosyncratic theology -- her romance of the "American millennial continent."
Ultimately, Young's portrait of Debs as regional prophet has the effect of diminishing his secular achievements. With the collapse of Socialism, his vision of Socialist democracy may strike some as no less dreamy than the failed utopian colonies of New Harmony. But Debs was far more than an Indiana dreamer. He was a Socialist of a deeply practical bent, who deplored the insurrectionary rhetoric of the Wobblies and helped build a Socialist Party. In his battles with Samuel Gompers, the head of the American Federation of Labor, Debs linked the struggle for industrial democracy to woman suffrage, civil rights and international peace. Toward the end of his life, he wrote: "This is a predominantly business age, a commercial age . . . and in a larger sense a sordid age, but the moral and spiritual values of life are not wholly ignored by the people. . . . Some day we shall seek and find and enjoy the real riches of the race." The man who uttered these words, which resonate in our own day, was a stalwart Hoosier, but he once made a nation tremble. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HARP SONG FOR A RADICAL (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (88%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (88%); TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (72%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: PULLMAN CAR CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (88%); MIDWEST USA (72%); EUGENE, OR, USA (88%); TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (72%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WRITERS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: SHATZ, ADAM; YOUNG, MARGUERITE; DEBS, EUGENE VICTOR (1855-1926) TRUMAN CAPOTE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



554 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Interview;
In His Opinion

BYLINE: By Linda Greenhouse; Linda Greenhouse reports on the Supreme Court for The Times.

 BODY:
IT is unusual for a sitting Federal judge to offer any comment at all on the passing public scene, let alone produce something close to an instant book about the most cataclysmic event in recent domestic politics. Judge Richard A. Posner knew all that, of course, when he began last October to write about the sex scandal engulfing the Clinton Presidency. Yet he found the unfolding saga "irresistible," he said in an interview in his chambers in the Everett M. Dirksen Federal Building in Chicago. Although when he began writing Posner had no idea how the story would end, the events engaged his scholarly interest in the intersection of law, politics and morality -- one of his 30 books is "Sex and Reason" (1992) -- as well as his judicial interest in prosecution tactics and the law of perjury.
And beyond that, the story simply made great theater. Although Posner, an influential founder of the law and economics school of legal analysis, is known for looking at legal problems through the unyielding prism of economic efficiency, he is also a summa cum laude graduate of the Yale English department who is as much at home quoting Shakespeare as Adam Smith. "It struck me early on that this was a fabulous show," he said. "The Clintons are terrific actors, and there was a Shakespearean quality to it all. One of the great aspects of 'Hamlet' is that Claudius and Gertrude maintain a perfect imperturbability; their public personae are flawless. It's the same thing with the Clintons. Their facade is impenetrable. That gave it a theatrical quality." 
 While in "An Affair of State" Posner calls the impeachment story "the ultimate Washington novel," in conversation he modified that judgment somewhat. "Truth really is stranger than fiction," he said; "imagination works on plausibility."
"Take Rehnquist's Iolanthe costume," he said, referring to four gold stripes Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist added to each sleeve of his black robe. "If I wrote a novel and put in a Chief Justice wearing a costume from a comic opera, any editor would take it out and tell me, 'This is ridiculous.' But it's such an entertainment-saturated society that it didn't really register with many people that this was a bizarre way for the Chief Justice to present himself to his first live television audience."
Neither the Chief Justice nor the Supreme Court itself fares well under Posner's scrutiny -- but then, neither does any other individual or institution, with the exception of the news media, which he praises for having basically got the story right and having stuck to it. Pundits (as distinguished from the working press), legal academics, public intellectuals (a label Posner disavows, though it appears to fit), the independent counsel and the statute that authorized his investigation, the House of Representatives and the Senate, the White House defense team, the rabid Clinton-haters and right-wing moralizers and of course Clinton, whom the book calls "a lying scofflaw of a President," are found distinctly wanting.
Yet "An Affair of State" is not a polemic, and in fact was conceived by its author as a kind of antipolemic, an antidote to the "hysteria" that puzzled and interested him in the discourse surrounding the events. Named to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit by President Reagan in 1981, Posner is a libertarian conservative who actually thinks Bill Clinton has been a good President, a useful if not entirely willing consolidator of the Reagan revolution. Although persuaded beyond any doubt that Clinton committed perjury and obstructed justice, Posner felt no personal desire to see him removed from office for those offenses, and certainly not for his sexual misadventures. In the best of all possible worlds, he said, the Monica Lewinsky affair would simply never have come to light. "If we were in an era where having an undistracted President was critical," he said, "then this kind of thing would have been hushed up. The marginalization of politics in the United States is what made it possible."
Posner, 60 years old, is the father of two grown sons, one a law professor and one an investment banker. He and his wife, Charlene, also have three grandchildren. Family pictures are on display in his chambers, along with a photograph of a youthful Justice William H. Brennan Jr., for whom Posner clerked after graduating from Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Law Review, in 1962. Since 1993, he has been chief judge of his circuit, which covers the states of Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin. The chief judgeship, attained through seniority, adds a substantial administrative overlay to his judicial duties; in addition, Posner, who taught full time at the University of Chicago Law School from 1969 until 1981, continues to carry one-third of a regular teaching load there.
People familiar with his prodigious output of books ("The Problematics of Moral and Legal Theory" is coming out almost simultaneously with "An Affair of State"), essays and reviews, and academic articles often shake their heads and wonder how he does it. "I work pretty steadily, nights and weekends," he said. "I don't have a sharp sense of the difference between work and play. If someone writes steadily, he can grind out an enormous amount of stuff over the decades." By way of example, he said: "Four pages a day means 1,400 pages a year, 14,000 pages in 10 years. It may sound a little eccentric, but I do try to do at least some work every day, and it all adds up." He writes all his own opinions -- something not many judges bother to do in an age of multiple law clerks -- and advises new judges to follow his example: "I tell them it might seem hard at first, but that they'll get the hang of it" and discover it is more efficient than training a new set of law clerks every year. "I'm big on efficiency," he added, smiling at the hint of self-parody.
Posner has strong feelings about the art of opinion-writing. "There is a tremendous amount of sheer hypocrisy in judicial opinion-writing," he said. "Judges have a terrible anxiety about being thought to base their opinions on guesses, on their personal views. To allay that anxiety, they rely on the apparatus of precedent and history, much of it extremely phony. I do think judges can and should get away with a lot more candor, so that the public sees what a court is -- not geniuses, or even particularly erudite people, but just lawyers trying to give some reasonable ground for their opinions." A worthwhile legacy of the impeachment drama, he said, might have been to take not only this President but the Presidency itself down a peg, "to take the President off his pedestal so that our politics can become perhaps more pragmatic, less striving for some exalted notion of leadership."
Proof of that effect, perhaps, is how quickly the entire episode appears to have slipped from public consciousness. Posner is surprised by that, but not entirely displeased. "I did have a little concern that my fellow judges might consider this impertinent on my part, writing so close to the event," he said. "I take some comfort that it seems to have been forgotten."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Richard A. Posner. (Guity Nashat/Harvard University Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TITLE: AFFAIR OF STATE, AN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JUDGES (89%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); ETHICS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); SEX SCANDALS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); THEATER (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; POSNER, RICHARD A (JUDGE); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); ADAM SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



555 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 84; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3654 words

HEADLINE: Miranda on the Hot Seat

BYLINE: By Roger Parloff; Roger Parloff, a senior writer for The American Lawyer and an attorney, is the author of "Triple Jeopardy."

 BODY:
For 31 years a strange secret has been lurking in the stacks of every law library in the country. The secret relates to the most famous criminal procedure ruling the United States Supreme Court has ever handed down: Miranda v. Arizona. Miranda, of course, is the 1966 ruling that has forced every police officer in America -- not to mention Jack Webb, Broderick Crawford and Dennis Franz -- to pause in the process of arresting innumerable thugs in order to, of all things, advise them of their constitutional rights.
Until this year the secret about Miranda had been successfully kept not only from most Americans, but also from the vast majority of those who deliver Miranda warnings, from the defense lawyers who claim that their clients did not receive those warnings and from the judges who rule on those disputes. The secret is that Miranda was "overruled" 31 years ago by Congress. In June 1968, President Lyndon Johnson signed into law the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, a piece of legislation he had been trying to get passed for some time. But to get the bill through Congress he had to accept a provision that had been added in committee by a coalition of conservative senators. The provision purports to overrule Miranda in the Federal courts and to restore the law to precisely where it stood before Chief Justice Earl Warren penned that momentous ruling in June 1966. 
 The important qualification -- purports" -- is necessary because, as any eighth grader knows, Congress has no power to overrule the United States Supreme Court's interpretation of the Constitution. A constitutional interpretation is what most people have always assumed the Miranda ruling to be. Chief Justice Warren wrote that the interrogation of arrested suspects involved "inherently compelling pressures" that could violate a suspect's Fifth Amendment privilege against forced self-incrimination. To insure that that didn't happen, the Court required that an arrested suspect be advised of certain rights before being interrogated: that he had the right to remain silent; that anything he said could be used against him in court; that he had the right to counsel; that counsel would be appointed if the suspect could not afford a lawyer. Any in-custody confession that was not prefaced by these warnings would be thrown out of court (or "suppressed," to use the legal term).
Although there were sporadic attempts to snuff out Miranda during the Nixon Administration, the effort soon lost momentum and urgency. Though the police expected Miranda to render interrogations pretty much useless, the fear proved manifestly mistaken. Most suspects waived their Miranda rights, and many ultimately confessed. Police officers and prosecutors quickly adjusted to Miranda, and judges carved out certain pragmatic exceptions to it. Soon most practicing lawyers forgot about the anti-Miranda legislation of 1968, and a younger generation grew up never even knowing of its existence.
With one critical exception. In the view of Paul Cassell -- an indefatigable, ideologically driven young law professor at the University of Utah -- law enforcement is actually being catastrophically crippled by Miranda. The prosecutors and police chiefs who claim otherwise are simply too young to realize how much better things used to be. Though Cassell was only 7 when the Supreme Court ruled on Miranda, he says he has learned of the devastation it has wrought from having re-examined several studies that were performed in the late 1960's. More important, Cassell knew about the secret.
So it came to pass that in February of this year, after a seven-year crusade, Cassell succeeded in getting the validity of that little-known 1968 law considered by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond -- the country's most self-confident, activist, conservative court. By a 2-to-1 vote, the panel ruled that Cassell was right: Miranda had not been a full-fledged constitutional requirement after all, but rather a kind of guideline, so the long-dormant law overturning it was valid. An entire generation of lawyers and judges -- including, on at least a dozen occasions, the Supreme Court itself -- had spent the last three decades scrutinizing and parsing, expanding and restricting and harmonizing and distinguishing a decision that had been null and void all along. Who knew!
On April 1, the entire Fourth Circuit voted 8 to 5 to let the panel's astonishing decision stand. The Supreme Court is widely expected to take up the case sometime during its 1999 term, which starts next week.
To Yale Kamisar, a law professor at the University of Michigan, in Ann Arbor, and a founding author of the nation's most widely used criminal procedure casebook, this is a lamentable turn of events. To throw the law out at the Federal level, he argues, would mean that as a matter of constitutional logic, each state would immediately be free to keep or discard Miranda as it saw fit. In states that dropped it, it would simply be left to the police to figure out what precautions would suffice to insure a constitutionally acceptable interrogation, and this would result in a mishmash of interpretations. And the confusion, Kamisar adds, would not end there: "People would start asking, What other Supreme Court cases can Congress overrule?"
Kamisar says he used to dismiss the 1968 law as a patently unconstitutional piece of political grandstanding. But he now admits that Cassell has a fighting chance. In the 1970's and 1980's, he points out, Chief Justice William Rehnquist (then an Associate Justice) wrote a series of decisions that not only limited Miranda's scope, but also gradually drove a wedge between Miranda and its original constitutional underpinnings. These rulings have suggested that the Miranda warnings are mere "prophylactic rules" rather than full-fledged constitutional requirements. If so, Congress might well have the power to "repeal" Miranda. "Now, ironically, it's a ball game," Kamisar says.
It seems that Paul Cassell was always an advocate. a former high-school debate champion, he so missed his sport after the first two years of college at Stanford that he transferred to the less prestigious Western Washington University to join its powerhouse traveling debate team. A few minutes alone with the man are enough to establish that he must have been a Ben Hur in such contests, as he rapidly stacks tier upon tier of well-organized, multi-pronged argument, establishing and bolstering and double-bolstering each of his contentions.
By the time he was invited to join the Edwin Meese Justice Department in 1986, his credentials were, for a cadre in the Reagan revolution, nearly perfect: after returning to Stanford for law school and serving as editor of The Stanford Law Review, he clerked for Antonin Scalia in 1984, when he was a Federal Appeals Court judge, and Chief Justice Warren Burger in 1985. He even met the woman he would marry at a meeting of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal organization.
Exploiting the changing composition of the Supreme Court, Meese had been systematically taking aim at a number of Supreme Court decisions long reviled by conservatives. The chief target was Roe v. Wade, but Meese also asked Stephen Markman, then an Assistant Attorney General for Legal Policy (and now a state appellate judge in Michigan), to re-examine the criminal-procedure landscape that had been bequeathed to the nation by the Warren Court. One of the fruits of Markman's endeavor happened to come out in page proofs as Cassell arrived at Justice: "The Report to the Attorney General on the Law of Pretrial Interrogation."
This was a lengthy polemic urging the repeal of Miranda, by way of the 1968 provision President Johnson had reluctantly signed into law, which is formally known as Section 3501 of Title 18 of the United States Code. Cassell, learning of Section 3501 for the first time, was impressed. "It seemed to me," he says now, "like a fascinating issue."
The Miranda ruling was something of a high-water mark of the Warren Court, and so to critics of that court (like Meese), it represented the ultimate instance of nonelected Federal judges interfering in state governmental affairs, making the law instead of applying it, and mollycoddling deadly criminals. Still, attacking Miranda was controversial even within the Reagan Justice Department. "Most experienced Federal prosecutors in and out of my office were opposed to this project, as was I," Charles Fried, then Solicitor General, later wrote in his 1991 book, "Order and Law: Arguing the Reagan Revolution -- A Firsthand Account." "Most professional law enforcement organizations had learned to live with Miranda, and even to love it," he wrote, and a "frontal assault" could backfire. So while Cassell was allowed to look for possible test cases to raise the issue in a lower court, Meese's department never raised the issue at the Supreme Court level.
Cassell opted in 1988 to become a Federal prosecutor in Alexandria, Va. But after three years, he discovered that "chasing criminals one at a time," as he puts it, was frustratingly incremental for his reformist temperament. "As a prosecutor, you do it retail," he says. "But if you can reform the Miranda rules, you can make a big difference."
So he entered academia, landing at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, and declared war on Miranda. In addition to mounting a doctrinal assault by filing briefs in various courtrooms (sometimes working in concert with the Washington Legal Foundation, a conservative public-interest group), he began an empirical blitz. The goal was to prove that Miranda was in fact having a devastating effect on the nation, even if no one else could see it. "What's driving me," Cassell explains, "is that I firmly believe -- and I think my research backs me up -- that there are literally hundreds of thousands of criminal cases that have not been solved because of Miranda. The one thing that I feel inadequate about is my inability to convey to the world the human misery that's reflected in those numbers. That's why I'm fired up about this."
What, then, are Miranda's costs? Cassell sees two main types. The first is obvious: the heinous criminals who walk free after their confessions have been suppressed because of a technical Miranda violation. But in fact, as Cassell forthrightly concedes, there just aren't very many such cases. Even the Markman report, written 20 years after Miranda, cited only four supposed examples of this type of harm. However, as Stephen Schulhofer, a University of Chicago law professor, later observed in a published critique of the report, one of the four horror stories involved a defendant who had been interrogated shortly before Miranda existed, two involved confessions that had been suppressed on grounds not required by Miranda and the last involved a defendant who had ultimately been convicted notwithstanding the suppression of his confession. Gloats Schulhofer, a Miranda defender, "There was no Willie Horton!"
Maybe so, Cassell argues, but Miranda also imposes an additional, more onerous cost on society. And while this second cost is more ethereal, it is one that many academics, on all sides of the Miranda debate, agree is probably a more pressing concern. These are the confessions that, because of Miranda, never take place at all. Cassell terms these "the lost confessions."
Unless Miranda warnings are a totally impotent gesture, the argument goes, there must be some percentage of suspects who invoke their right to remain silent who would not have done so. Some subset of that group, in turn, presumably would have gone on to make truthful confessions that would not have been "involuntary" in the classic beaten-out-of-him sense. And in some subcategory of that subset, the confession would have been crucial to building a case against that suspect.
How, then, to quantify such a thing? In a 1996 article in The Northwestern University Law Review, Cassell reviewed 11 before-and-after studies that had been performed in the late 1960's in an effort to measure Miranda's impact on the rate at which interrogated suspects confessed. Analyzing and averaging their results, Cassell concluded that Miranda caused a 16 percent drop in confessions nationwide, which led to a 3.8 percent drop in convictions, resulting in the failure to apprehend about 28,000 violent felons annually -- just the sort of alarming number that rallies people to a cause.
Or raises skeptical eyebrows. In this instance, Cassell's empirical work has drawn damaging criticism, particularly from Schulhofer, who makes a powerful case that Cassell's methods simply aren't credible. Schulhofer pointed out that Cassell had, for instance, simply discarded from his calculus one seemingly competent study in which the confession rate had actually risen by 9.8 percent. Cassell had thrown it out in part because the result simply seemed illogical.
In contrast, he included studies that to other legal scholars did appear to suffer from methodological flaws. In two studies, for instance, the pre-Miranda confession-rate "statistics" were not actually statistics at all, but rather estimates that had been supplied by prosecutors who were critics of Miranda. Recomputing Cassell's numbers using a more consistent methodology, Schulhofer found, at most, a 0.78 percent loss in convictions attributable to Miranda -- a negligible impact given the roughness of the measurements involved.
Cassell has also introduced into the debate a chart that displays, between 1965 and 1968, a precipitous drop in crime "clearance rates" -- the percentages of crimes that are solved out of the total reported. Cassell blames Miranda entirely for the drop. But Schulhofer points out that clearance rates had actually been gradually dropping since 1959. Furthermore, Schulhofer demonstrated that the drop in clearance rates is amply and nearly perfectly explained by the skyrocketing increases in crime rates over the same period -- rates that greatly outstripped the modest increases in personnel and resources dedicated to police work at the time.
Conceding nothing, Cassell has parried with a crude regression analysis that he maintains proves that the drop in clearance rates after Miranda cannot fully be explained by rising crime rates and therefore must really be Miranda's fault. But there is a more cautious, alternative interpretation of Cassell's regression analysis, according to John Donohue III, an economist and Stanford law professor. It may demonstrate nothing more than what had already been well known among criminologists since the mid-1960's: that clearance rates in the 1950's and early 1960's were notoriously manipulated by police chiefs to show their constituents what splendid jobs they were doing. So as crime reporting became more rigorous and professional in the late 1960's, clearance rates appeared to decline.
But if Cassell's arguments make for unconvincing social science, he has enjoyed greater success where it counts: in court.
It wasn't easy. Since Federal prosecutors were not trying to enforce the long-lost 1968 law, Cassell began raising it himself by filing amicus curiae briefs -- that is, a filing by an outsider to a lawsuit. For seven years, Cassell filed such briefs in one or two cases a year, primarily in the District of Utah or in the Fourth Circuit. These were his current and former stomping grounds and two of the most inviting venues legally, based on controlling Federal precedents in those regions. Usually these cases would be decided on other grounds, with the judge finding, for instance, that no Miranda violation had occurred after all. Then Cassell finally found a case with legs.
In January 1997, at an F.B.I. field office in Washington, an agent interrogated Charles Thomas Dickerson, whom the agent suspected of having committed a bank robbery in Alexandria, Va. After a few hours, Dickerson admitted knowledge of the robbery. Though there was no question of the agent's having given Dickerson his Miranda rights at some point, the agent and Dickerson later disagreed over whether the warnings had been given before or after the incriminating statements. In an unusual turn, the district judge sided with Dickerson. Though specifying that Dickerson's statement had been "voluntary," and that the Miranda violation had only been technical, the judge threw it out.
These facts were so perfect for Cassell that they sounded as if he had written the script. But there was more: the prosecutors moved for rehearing, and presented powerful additional evidence -- including a handwritten note from Dickerson -- supporting the F.B.I.'s claim that Dickerson had been given his Miranda warnings before he confessed. But the judge refused to reconsider his ruling because of an unrelated procedural technicality.
"This is a dream test case from our point of view," Cassell says, "because it turns out the cops followed Miranda! And what we have is a quibble: did the guy get his warnings at 8 o'clock at night, when they started the questioning, or did he get 'em at 9 o'clock, after he confessed. And we have a bad person here," he contends, noting that Dickerson is suspected of involvement in a string of bank robberies in two states. Indeed, if not for Miranda, the Dickerson prosecution would look like a slam dunk.
The Justice Department, on behalf of the F.B.I., appealed the judge's ruling, but following Clinton Administration policy it did not raise the 1968 Miranda repeal law. The Fourth Circuit not only permitted Cassell to do just that in an amicus brief, but also in oral argument before the court. "It's the first time I was able to argue this issue," says Cassell, who can't resist adding, "I thought I did a heck of a job."
Evidently so did the Fourth Circuit. On Feb. 8 of this year, Judge Karen Williams, a Bush appointee from South Carolina, handed down the majority opinion. Congress had "acted well within its authority" in enacting Section 3501, she found. Then she lambasted the Clinton Justice Department for refusing to defend it, accusing the department of "elevating politics over law."
On July 30, Dickerson petitioned the Supreme Court for review. Should the Court take it up, Cassell predicts a crushing victory in which the anti-Miranda forces will collect possibly as many as seven votes. On the other hand, George Thomas, a law professor at Rutgers, who counts himself an "agnostic" on the wisdom of Miranda as a policy matter, predicts that Miranda will narrowly survive, perhaps by a 5-to-4 vote. There is also a possibility, as Yale Kamisar fears, that the Clinton Department of Justice may yet fold under political pressure and take the position that the Justices should overturn Miranda. The department's lower-court briefs have conspicuously left itself that option.
But even if the Supreme Court upholds Miranda and strikes down the 1968 law, Cassell says he has a Plan B. It emanates from Chief Justice Warren's concession in the original Miranda ruling that the four famous Miranda warnings are not written in stone. "Congress and the States are free to develop their own safeguards for the privilege," Warren wrote, "so long as they are fully as effective" as the warnings they replace.
Accordingly, Cassell is ready to bargain. He thinks the Miranda features that actually trip up the police when they try to extract confessions are the right-to-counsel warnings, the requirement that the defendant explicitly "waive" his rights after being advised of them and the requirement that interrogation cease immediately after a suspect invokes his right to silence. So Cassell proposes dispensing with these three aspects of Miranda, keeping the right-to-remain-silent warning and then adding some meaningful new safeguard -- like, say, a "reasonable" time limit on interrogations, or a requirement that interrogations be videotaped.
Though Miranda defenders like Schulhofer think videotaping would be a splendid idea, they are scandalized by Cassell's attempt to use it in a crude horse trade for Miranda's most potent protections. But others seem willing to play. After all, a genuine, foolproof videotaping requirement would undoubtedly provide greater protection against truly abusive interrogation techniques -- sleep deprivation, leading questions, threats and promises, feeding the suspect incriminating information -- than Miranda warnings. The innocent people who are known to have falsely confessed under interrogation have usually swiftly waived their Miranda rights -- reasoning that they had nothing to hide.
So maybe some common ground will yet be reached and society will benefit from the debate Cassell has sparked.
But if that turns out to be the case, it will have been a remarkably roundabout achievement, stemming largely from a crusade by one man to fix what looks an awful lot like a nonproblem. Though the lawyers on each side of the dispute are now busily lining up supporters among the nation's myriad police organizations, any involvement by police officials in this dispute will be after-the-fact window dressing. Cassell's would-be revolution did not spontaneously ignite in the urban trenches where cops and criminals do daily deadly combat. It was kindled in a small, tidy second-floor cubicle at the University of Utah College of Law, in Salt Lake City.
"There's no big hue and cry among American police chiefs and officers to do away with Miranda," asserts New York's favorite crime fighter, William Bratton, the former Police Commissioner. Bratton has been the head of five police departments since first becoming a police officer in 1970. He says he hopes the Supreme Court has the courage to preserve Miranda: "It's an effective control on abuses in the questioning process. It works fine."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Opposite: The way it used to be. Above: The way it is now. (left: Photofest. above: Cheryl Himmelstein for The New York Times.)' The indefatigable, ideologically driven Paul Cassell. (Photograph by Cheryl Himmelstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MIRANDA V ARIZONA (US SUPREME COURT 1966 DECISION); SELF-INCRIMINATION MIRANDA RULE (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAW LIBRARIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (77%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: PARLOFF, ROGER; CASSELL, PAUL (PROF) BEN NELSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



556 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 58; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3457 words

HEADLINE: Get Ready, Here Comes the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle

BYLINE: By Peter Maass; Peter Maass is the author of "Love Thy Neighbor: A Story of War," about covering the war in Bosnia.

 BODY:
Dale Reis and Jerry Lockard lead the way into a land of secrets. Reis punches in a code and a locked door clicks open with the metallic sound of a bullet clip sliding into place. They enter an arena of cubicles that would resemble any office in Dilbert's America were it not for some of the filing cabinets; secured with the type of combination locks affixed to safes, the cabinets are encased in metal bars and fastened with heavy-duty padlocks.
This is a missile factory, one of the largest in the country, a high-security complex of 80 buildings on 1,400 acres of land with 8,500 men and women who work for Raytheon Missiles Systems to design and produce armaments whose names hint at the nonpassive nature of their business -- Tomahawk, Stinger, Javelin, RAM, Maverick, HARM. 
 The factory, on the outskirts of Tucson, Ariz., has the tidy feel of a manufacturing facility anywhere in the country. A placard at its entrance keeps count of the number of days that have gone by without an employee missing work because of an injury or accident -- 52 the day I visit -- and its sprawling parking lots are filled with minivans and family sedans with baby seats.
Reis and Lockard are the top executives at this complex and have worked in the defense business their entire professional lives. Now they spend much of their time on the road, in Washington or selling their wares in foreign countries. Their uniform this day is casual -- sports shirts and jackets, no ties. Keeping a brisk pace, we leave the office building, cross a tarmac under a blazing Arizona sun and enter another nondescript building where the double-time march leaves little opportunity to observe anything but the signs on the doors: "Special Access," "Top Secret" and "Wargaming Lab -- Secure Facility." After we enter a final set of double doors, a red light flashes on the wall, and as a security official slides to my side, a loudspeaker informs everyone that an unclassified visitor is present.
The reason for the fuss is simple: within this laboratory, Raytheon's top ballistic technicians are putting the final touches on a weapon that is supposed to protect America from Armageddon. The Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle is supposed to fly through space at 4,500 miles an hour and smash into an incoming warhead. The closing velocity of missile and missile-killer would be an amazing four miles per second, and somehow, despite the velocity, despite the vacuum of space, despite the subzero temperatures, despite decoys and evasive maneuvers, the E.K.V. will, if all goes as planned, hit its target's warhead and obliterate it. This task is akin to hitting the tip of a bullet with another bullet, except that the cost of missing the target by even a fraction of an inch is the loss of a U.S. city under a mushroom cloud, or a cloud of anthrax spores or the smallpox virus.
An E.K.V. costs $20 million to $25 million and, at 120 pounds, is pound for pound among the most expensive weapons ever built. It is also the crown jewel of National Missile Defense, a program that is Topic A for defense hawks in Washington who worry America is unnecessarily vulnerable to missiles tipped with weapons of mass destruction. National Missile Defense is also Topic A for Pentagon critics, as an example of another out-of-control program that has soaked up more than $50 billion in nearly two decades. Most antimissile tests have failed to score intercepts. While that dismal trend is beginning to turn, it makes the E.K.V.'s tryout, scheduled for Sept. 30, when it will soar into space to attempt to destroy a test warhead flying somewhere above the Pacific Ocean, all the more urgent, for both Raytheon and the Pentagon. Because depending on whom you believe right now, the E.K.V. is either a magic bullet for national security or just another pricey misfire from the defense industry.
America is preparing for nuclear war again. In 1983, the goal of defending the country from intercontinental-ballistic-missile attack rose to the top of the political agenda when President Reagan outlined his vision of building a system of space-based lasers to shoot down missiles fired by the Soviet Union. The system became known as Star Wars and was derided by critics who said -- accurately, as it turned out -- there was no way the Government could build a missile shield that would work. Star Wars drained more than $50 billion before the tap was turned off at the end of the cold war.
Despite the Star Wars distraction, the doctrine of mutually assured destruction (MAD) -- meaning, if you nuke us, we will nuke you -- was the backbone of America's nuclear defense throughout the cold war and remains so today. There is no defensive system that can shoot down an ICBM; there's only MAD.
In the past year, America's political and military leadership has concluded that the country can no longer rely on deterrence alone. A limited version of President Reagan's shield, a Star Wars Lite relying on ground-based interceptors rather than space-based lasers, has moved to the forefront of Pentagon priorities. The National Missile Defense's budget nearly doubled earlier this year to $10.5 billion until 2005, and President Clinton has agreed to decide next year whether the system will be deployed over strenuous objections from the Russians and Chinese, who also oppose a related program, called Theater Missile Defense, which would be deployed overseas to protect United States troops in battle and, potentially, foreign allies. The Russians and Chinese view the programs as politically destabilizing; China is particularly worried about a U.S. antimissile umbrella covering Taiwan. Domestic critics, meanwhile, insist National Missile Defense will be no different from Star Wars. "The names have been changed to protect the guilty," says John Pike, a senior analyst with the liberal research group the Federation of American Scientists.
The notion of a renewed nuclear menace may seem odd, with the cold war long over and America able to turn almost any hostile country into a smart-bomb target range. What's to worry about? Though the Kremlin insists it cannot happen, the chaos in Russia has raised fears of an accidental launch of nuclear missiles. Also, Pakistan and India have enhanced their capabilities in the past year and tested nuclear weapons. But of even greater concern is the development of long-range missiles by rogue states like Stalinist North Korea, with its connections to terrorists and drug smugglers. Other rogue states that worry policy makers in Washington -- like Syria, Iran, Iraq and Libya -- are improving their ballistic arsenals. But Pyongyang is the only member of the group that has, or may soon have, a missile that can reach America, a point emphasized last year when North Korea test-fired a three-stage rocket over Japan that could reach parts of Hawaii or Alaska. It was the ballistic shot heard around the world, resonating especially in Washington, where it took the C.I.A. by surprise. The C.I.A. also believes North Korea has created a more powerful rocket that could hit the western half of the American mainland with a sizable warhead, though earlier this month North Korea agreed to a testing freeze in exchange for economic assistance from the United States and Japan.
Whether North Korea honors the freeze or not, the underlying technology presumably could still be offered for sale in "rogue to rogue" commerce. This is not what President Bush had in mind when he hailed, as the Soviet Union collapsed, a "new world order."
"I would argue that with Russia being the basket case that it is today, we have more threats than we had when we had the cold war going on between us and the Soviet Union, and they are much more divergent threats," says Representative Curt Weldon, Republican of Pennsylvania, a longtime advocate of missile defense whose office is decorated with models of rockets and fighter planes. "They are threats that come not just from Russia but from North Korea, from Iran, Iraq, perhaps from China and from terrorist activities, and much of it is because of proliferation."
His view, which used to be considered extremist, has entered the mainstream of strategic thinking. A few days before North Korea promised to freeze its missile testing, the C.I.A. warned that by the year 2015 Pyongyang and Iran could possess long-range missiles that could "kill tens of thousands or even millions, of Americans." Iraq was categorized as slightly less likely to do so in the same time span. Last year, a Congressionally appointed panel headed by former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned that the threat of attack from missiles tipped with nuclear, chemical or biological warheads is "evolving more rapidly than has been reported in estimates and reports by the intelligence community." In July, another blue-ribbon panel, headed by former C.I.A. Director John Deutch, warned that the United States is "not effectively organized to combat proliferation" of weapons of mass destruction. And so on.
These are what the Pentagon calls "homeland threats," a phrase echoing from the 1950's and 1960's, when fallout shelters and duck-and-cover drills were the rage. The millennial makeover of homeland defense does not mean arming the citizens of Santa Monica with revolvers to repel Communist frogmen. The Pentagon, along with the F.B.I. and C.I.A. and Justice Department, among other agencies, is increasing its focus on combating terrorism, cyber attacks, germ warfare, biological warfare, suitcase nuclear bombs, ICBM's -- the works. Constructing a defensive shield against incoming missiles is the most expensive component of homeland defense and, perhaps, the ultimate reflection of fortress America; critics refer to National Missile Defense as a modern-day Maginot line. Critics say the Reagan-era vision remains far beyond our technological reach, and even if it were possible, a hostile nation or terrorist group would likely use the less-expensive methods of putting a weapon of mass destruction on a ship and exploding it in an American harbor or putting it into a van and detonating it in an American city, much as terrorists exploded a conventional bomb under the World Trade Center in 1993.
The Clinton Administration, which was cool to the missile-defense program, has changed its view. "I think your obligation is to try to counter all threats," says Robert Bell, until recently senior director for arms control and defense policy at the National Security Council. "When you leave your house each day for work, you lock your door even though you're 100 percent aware that a burglar can break a window."
Largely in reaction to the North Korean launch and in an effort to deprive Republicans of a soft-on-defense issue in the 2000 election, the Administration and Democrats in Congress have abandoned much of their cautionary stance toward National Missile Defense and now join Republicans in emphasizing how the program is different from Star Wars. Instead of using space-based lasers, for example, it would use a battery of approximately 100 ground-based interceptors to destroy incoming missiles, and the system would be able to destroy only a handful of missiles rather than a cold-war barrage of thousands. These changes are supposed to make National Missile Defense not just cheaper than Star Wars but actually technologically feasible.
The viability of the system depends on Raytheon's Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle, which has not had a full flight test. The Sept. 30 test was originally scheduled for June, but pushed back to August and then pushed back again until now. When it happens, the E.K.V. will be launched into space from the Kwajalein Missile Range, in the Marshall Islands, a few minutes after a missile is launched from the Vandenberg Air Force Base, in California, in a "hit to kill" mission. Somewhere over the Pacific Ocean, the E.K.V. will separate from its booster, home in on
the Vandenberg missile and, if all goes well, smash it to pieces. If the kill occurs, President Clinton will be more likely to give a green light to deploy the system. The Pentagon has already examined potential sites in North Dakota and Alaska. Should the E.K.V. miss its target, a chorus of critics will be ready.
The executive conference room at the Raytheon factory has a ground-floor view of National Guard F-16's taking off from an adjacent airstrip, but the fighter jets are less striking than a poster in a corner of the room. At first, it appears to plug a Hollywood action film. An image of Earth fills the background, and in the foreground, an odd-looking contraption, half-satellite and half-missile, streaks through space. A hot-blooded slogan stretches across the bottom: "Discriminate and Destroy."
The poster promotes the E.K.V., not a Schwarzenegger flick. And a model of the E.K.V. rests atop the conference-room table, where Reis and Lockard sit anxiously on either side of it, like parents of a precocious and unpredictable child. Place mats laid out on the table for sandwiches sport diagrams of the E.K.V. Wherever you look, there seems to be an image of the weapon that discriminates and destroys.
Reis, who is Lockard's superior but less talkative, has the bearing of a grim leader for whom defeat is not an option; he has a weary look on his face. If the E.K.V. works, his company stands to win a huge sum in contracts. If it fails, the company may still win large contracts -- the wonderful thing about working for the Pentagon is that failure to deliver a product can mean more money is channeled your way until you get it right -- but the incoming fire from politicians and journalists will not be insubstantial. "I have a high degree of confidence that we're going to hit it the first time," he says. "Barring a reliability problem, if it flies, we'll hit it. No question about it."
These sorts of bullish statements have been uttered for decades by military contractors. However, there have been far more failures than successes in antimissile programs -- and at least one falsified success. Back in 1984, the Pentagon trumpeted a direct hit on a missile by a heat-seeking interceptor. It was only later, years later, that the Pentagon admitted the warhead on the missile had been warmed before launch, making a direct hit a near certainty.
More recently, the Pentagon has poured $3.9 billion into an antimissile program known as Theater High Altitude Area Defense, designed to destroy missiles aimed at troops or cities outside the United States. In its first six flights, Thaad registered zero intercepts; reliability problems were blamed, meaning mechanical parts or computer codes failed to perform their tasks. After the sixth consecutive failure, in March, the Pentagon tried to spin its way out of trouble by claiming the test was successful because 16 of 17 objectives were met. But hitting the target happened to be the 17th objective. This summer, Thaad's fortunes improved considerably as two test flights scored hits. Although critics say the tests were conducted under conditions unlikely to prevail in a war (the timing and trajectory of the missile were known), the Pentagon was so enthused that suggestions were floated that Thaad could be deployed earlier than expected and a $15 million fine levied against Lockheed Martin, the prime contractor blamed for the delays and six botched tests, was lifted.
I mention to Lockard and Reis that the sort of gung-ho predictions they make were made by Lockheed Martin when it began its test flights of Thaad. "We just believe very strongly in the process we've put in place," Lockard replies. "And I really quite frankly don't know the Lockheed Martin process, so I can't comment on it."
When I ask whether Raytheon will be able to deliver a functioning E.K.V. at the promised price, Reis says: "We have an excellent base line for this vehicle. You'll see it; it exists; it's gone through a lot of tests. And we've got an outfit here in Tucson that knows how to build missiles to cost. That's been their legacy. We don't have 15 missile programs out here because we overran a lot of programs."
They may not have overrun a lot of programs, but at least a current one -- a program to equip Navy vessels with antimissile interceptors -- is costing far more than promised. In April, the Pentagon announced the program would cost nearly 50 percent more than planned, rising, overnight, from $913 million to more than $1.3 billion. When I mention this, Reis laughs a bit nervously and says Raytheon is only one of the contractors and only partly responsible for the escalating price tag. "Our portion of that overrun was 20 percent of that 50 percent," he says.
At the factory, when we enter the E.K.V. laboratory, several dozen engineers and technicians are at work, dressed in the unofficial uniform of short-sleeved shirts, Dockers and ID tags. The laboratory is a modest place, not much larger than a tennis court or two, stuffed with computers, vacuum chambers, a "clean room" for assembling sensitive parts, computer simulation terminals and, of course, the E.K.V. itself, which does not look like a slayer of missiles. In fact, it looks nothing like a missile at all. It has an ungainly appearance that suggests a homemade jetpack, and from head to toe it measures just 52 inches; it could fit into the trunk of a compact car. Attached to the E.K.V. on the day I visit is a yellow tag, of the sort attached to airline baggage, that says, "Very Fragile."
Fuel tanks, thrusters and piping are anchored around a cylinder that is attached to a telescopelike device that lets the sensors "see" the incoming missile and measure its speed, dimensions and density. That information will whiz through the E.K.V.'s processors and help it home in on the missile's warhead. Raytheon says the E.K.V. will be able to hit within centimeters of the desired point of impact on the warhead.
The E.K.V. does not carry any explosives. Because it will be traveling at 75 miles a minute, the kinetic force of its collision with the incoming warhead will destroy both devices. But hitting the warhead is even tricker than the bullet-hitting-a-bullet metaphor would suggest because of the possible decoy measures that might be deployed. A mylar balloon that inflates in space around a warhead is one such decoy. There is also the potential for fake warheads inside the balloon and the use of metal chaff to travel alongside the warhead as an alternate target. Much of the debate about the usefulness of National Missile Defense revolves around the E.K.V.'s ability to outsmart these decoys, and the debate devolves into a ballistic form of he said, she said, with some critics saying the decoy-foiling technology does not exist and will not exist anytime soon and Raytheon engineers insisting just as strongly that it does, though the evidence is, unfortunately, classified.
For Raytheon, the best-case scenario may be the least-likely scenario -- that the E.K.V. will work on its first flight test, that President Clinton will give a green light to building the system and that it will be deployed by 2005, on time and on budget. What comes next? That's a vexing question, because it is entirely possible the system, even if it is built and actually works, would be obsolete soon after its completion.
In a 1996 report, the Congressional Budget Office said the "thin" defense offered by N.M.D. may need to be thickened in the years ahead as rogue nations expand and enhance their arsenals. An effective defense against the ballistic threats of tomorrow would require space-based interceptors and space-based lasers, the budget office reported, because precious minutes are wasted by ground-based weapons that must be boosted into space after a hostile missile is already on its way to America. According to the report, the cost of building such an enhanced system could "greatly exceed $60 billion by 2010."
The budget office's view is supported by Representative Weldon, who readily admits NMD will need to be expanded if the threat from rogue nations advances. "That's something this Administration doesn't want to talk about," he said in a thunderous voice during an interview in his Washington office. "Space is going to become a more critical part. Space-based sensing, space-based queuing and space-based assets. It is a fact that we are going to have to deal with. We might as well be honest about that. In the end, the most capable response will come from outer space."
If so, the $10.5 billion now budgeted for National Missile Defense may turn out to be little more than a down payment on a far grander system that has already been discussed, years before. Back then it was called Star Wars.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The E.K.V. will carry no explosives, relying on marksmanship and kinetic force to destroy the incoming warhead. (Raytheon Systems Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CATALYTIC INC; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT RAYTHEON CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAYTHEON CATALYTIC INC; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SEDANS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: MAASS, PETER DALE REIS (64%); JERRY LOCKARD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



557 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2524 words

HEADLINE: Calabria By the Sea

BYLINE: By PAUL HOFMANN; PAUL HOFMANN, who lives in Rome, is the author of "Umbria: Italy's Timeless Heart" (Holt).

 BODY:
FROM the parapet of the little piazza at Tropea in Calabria, the limestone cliff drops perpendicularly 150 feet, and you see the sea gulls wheeling below you. Every pebble and rock outcrop on the deep bottom of the aquamarine sea is visible.
Such crystal-clear waters are an exception today off the European shores of the Mediterranean Sea. Yet Calabria, the rocky southwestern subpeninsula of the Italian peninsula, boasts many bays and coves that are still limpid. Many are now surrounded by condominium developments, shuttered most of the year, as well as by beach hotels and a plethora of recently built pizzerias. And more are abuilding from the Gulf of Policastro to the Straits of Messina. 
 Tropea, one of Calabria's jewels, is framed by such modern developments and by campsites. But the ancient town, high up on its panoramic promontory, has retained a measure of authenticity, and the sea is still a palette of blues, from nearly green to azure to indigo. Happily, the annual ecological surveys of Italy's 5,000 miles of seashore have up to now given the coastal waters here and in most of Calabria a clean bill of health.
That airy lookout, with its bronze cannon and its clusters of elderly men on the stone benches who discuss the catches brought in by the fishing boats and the national soccer championship, commands one of the greatest views of the Tyrrhenian coastline.
The fine sand on the beach at the foot of the towering cliff is white, in season dotted with gaudy umbrellas. A craggy rock just off Tropea, today linked to the mainland by a narrow strip of land, is crowned by an old Benedictine sanctuary, St.-Mary-of-the-Isle. A few miles to the south the green Cape Vaticano recalls the epoch five centuries ago when the papal state had its own fleet of galleys.
On the horizon looms the cone of Stromboli, one of Europe's few active volcanoes, a 3,040-foot-high younger cousin of Mount Etna in Sicily and Vesuvius near Naples. On clear days one can see the cloud of smoke that often hangs over the crater of the small circular island. Sunsets in Tropea have the color of amethyst.
The town, which today has a permanent population of 7,000, was successively Greek, Roman and Arabic, and through the ages had to endure the multifarious invaders who passed through Calabria or occupied it. The Normans, who drove out the Saracens in the 11th century, built Tropea's remarkable cathedral with the sand-colored stone of the district.
If you hear English spoken in the narrow streets or at the cafe tables in the squares, the chances are they aren't tourists but Americans visiting relatives; enormous numbers left the region for America early in the century. The Calabrians, unlike the lively Neapolitans, are often reserved; the visitor who approaches them civilly will be met with grave courtesy. A sojourn in Tropea is particularly pleasant because it's not just a seaside resort but also a genuine old Calabrian town with an intense local life.
Many thousands of Italians from the north pour into Tropea and other Calabrian beach towns in August, the nation's hallowed vacation period, when Milan, Turin and the other big cities become deserted.
During four visits to Calabria in spring 1998 and winter 1999, I avoided the summer crowds, enjoyed many sunny days, obtained favorable hotel rates and ate deliciously fresh seafood. I also saw owners of second homes on the coast who come over the weekends from Naples and Rome, and some early guests from northern Europe. At the end of April, when the sea must have still been quite chilly (I didn't care to find out), Virgilio Ciccarelli, manager of the Virgilio Hotel in Tropea, where I stayed, told me: "A Finnish travel group just left; they have been bathing in the sea every day."
The international travel industry appears about to discover Calabria, which until now -- together with the neighboring region of Basilicata -- used to be the part of Italy least known to foreign tourists (and to millions of Italians too). Once the rush of August vacationers is over, the golden autumn along the Calabrian coasts is particularly gratifying, as I know from previous years.
In addition to the sea, there is the subtropical vegetation -- tall palms, pines, cypresses, cactuses, fig and lemon trees and vines everywhere. A ruined castle scowls from almost every other hill, some of them like the one in Cirella, adapted as a setting for concerts, plays and other summer events. The rocky coastline is studded with ancient watchtowers that, until the early 19th century, would alert the villagers and townspeople when they sighted pirates.
In Cirella, 125 miles north of Tropea, I looked up old friends who have retired to Calabria from Virginia (they are of Northern Italian stock) to live in a pleasant whitewashed house with a flower garden and a terrace looking out on a tiny, privately owned offshore island.
My headquarters in Cirella was a new hotel, the Ducale, in a restored seaside villa that the dukes of the Gonzaga clan built for themselves in the 18th century. The noble complex vaunts a walled garden with palms, giant cactuses, shrubbery and flower beds, and a private beach. My large room, looking out on the garden, was soberly but comfortably furnished and had a modern bathroom.
The old, still-inhabited village of Cirella, a short distance from the shoreside resort, climbs a slope below the ruins of a hilltop town that Hannibal razed 2,200 years ago, and that in later centuries was rebuilt and destroyed again, the last time by a French fleet in 1806.
Nearby, a little to the south, is the beach resort of Diamante, with a tree-lined boardwalk. A jewelry trader from West 47th Street in Manhattan, who was spending a few weeks in Calabria, walked with me around the crooked streets, showing me the frescoes that contemporary local and foreign artists have painted on facades of the old buildings.
Another resort, eight miles to the north, Scalea, with ancient houses marching up a hill and a modern seaside neighborhood, has good hotels on either side of a rock with a restored medieval fortress on top; underneath are caves in which stone-age tools were found. The fortress and its fenced approaches are now privately owned.
During one of my recent trips to Calabria, I also revisited the inland city of Cosenza, 54 miles southeast. Its Old Town, a warren of lanes around the Gothic cathedral, huddles below a hill with a massive, square castle and an octagonal 13th-century tower. Modern Cosenza, with broad, regular streets, extends from the confluence of the Busento and Crati Rivers almost all the way to the village of Rende, the seat of the University of Calabria. Built in 1973, this state school is one of the very few Italian institutions of higher learning with dorms on campus.
Somewhere below the waters of the Busento the king of the Visigoths, Alaric, is supposed to be buried, along with a fabulous treasure. The barbarian conqueror died in A.D. 412 in or near Cosenza, and his warriors are said to have forced their prisoners to divert the river and dig a royal tomb, into which they lowered Alaric's body together with spoils from their sack of Rome two years earlier. They then restored the original course of the Busento and massacred the prisoners, so that the site of the grave would remain secret.
During World War II the chief of the Nazi SS, Heinrich Himmler, dispatched a team of engineers and archeologists to Cosenza, hoping they would locate the secret tomb of the Germanic king and recover the Roman gold. They failed, as have other treasure hunters before and since.
Cosenza is the obvious starting point for exploring the sullenly mountainous Sila massif. During my latest visit, in January, when the icy wind known as the buran swept down the continent from Siberia and hit southern Italy, snow and ice on the roads made a foray into the forested heights inadvisable. During an earlier Calabrian tour, the Sila reminded me of the Alps.
The mountain area is an enormous, rugged block of granite, rising to an altitude of 6,332 feet in the Botte Donato heights, which are usually snowcapped until June. There are still patches of dense woods -- pines, spruces, oaks, chestnuts and beeches -- from which in antiquity the Greek city-states of Sicily and even the Athenians cut timber for their ships. Vast pastures cover the plateaus.
About 100 specimens of the light-gray Apennine wolf, a protected species, are known to be still living in the Sila, especially in its national park. A pair of wolves were sighted on the outskirts of Consenza in the coldest days of January, but I saw nothing more than a few timid stray dogs. Natural and artificial lakes in the thinly populated mountains supply the water for power plants. It's a great environment for hiking, camping and, in the cold winters, skiing.
During my latest stay in Cosenza I reread chapters from Norman Douglas's "Old Calabria," published in 1915. This intrepid and quirky Scottish traveler who, among other feats, traversed the Sila on foot, tells of villages without male adults -- they had all emigrated to America -- and of grinding poverty, brigandage, widespread malaria and even pockets of cholera.
Since then, Calabria has come a long way. It is as healthy now as the rest of Italy. Many Calabrians who emigrated to Germany as "guest workers" in the 1950's have returned and bought property or started businesses. The government has stepped up its fight against organized crime; some bandits still hold out in the Aspromonte, the rough, forest-clad mountain ranges in the toe of the Italian boot.
In comparison to affluent northern Italy, Calabria is less developed, especially the interior. Unemployment is high. But the region seems ready for an economic takeoff. The Rome government and the European Union have promised investment aid.
With the projected manufacturing plants, hotels and vacation villages, the big challenge is to keep the waters of Tropea and the other Calabrian bays and nooks as clean as they are today, and its landscape relatively uncluttered. I, for one, am reasonably confident that at least some of this beautiful coast will remain pristine; having been hooked on Calabria, I plan to return.
 
Hotels, restaurants, beaches
 
Getting There
There are several flights daily to Lamezia Terme's Santa Eufemia Airport from Rome and Milan, and from Zurich via Rome or Milan. It is a six-hour trip by fast Inter-City (IC) train from Rome to Tropea; four hours to Scalea; five hours and change to Cosenza (changing trains at Paola). By car it is 268 to 276 miles from Rome on Autostrada A1 to Naples and from there by Autostrada A3 to the Lagonegro exit, proceeding by National Route No. 18 to Scalea, Cirella and Diamante. To Tropea, it is 398 miles by Autostradas A1 and A3 to the Pizzo exit, then to National Route No. 522. To reach Cosenza, it is a 325-mile drive on Autostradas A1 and A3 to the Cosenza Nord exit.
Where to Stay
TROPEA: Le Roccette Mare, Via Mare Piccolo, (39-0963) 61358, fax (39-0963) 61450, open from end of April to the end of October, is a beachside complex with a central building and bungalows. A double room that includes private bath, breakfast and dinner is $85 until August, when it increases to $165 for two.
VIRGILIO: Viale Tondo, (39-0963) 61978; fax, (39-0963) 62320, is a simple, family-run establishment, with restaurant, a five-minute walk from the rail station. Double rooms with private baths are $120 (including breakfast) except in August, when they go up to $180. Open all year.
SCALEA: Talao, 66 Corso Mediterraneo, (39-0985) 20444, fax (39-0985) 20297, a family-managed, modern seaside enterprise with a swimming pool, tennis court, private beach and a good restaurant. Doubles are $75 to $90 off season, $100 in August; full board for two $145 off-season, $210 in August; open until Nov. 10. Grand Hotel de Rose, Lungomare Mediterraneo, (39-0985) 20273, fax (39-0985), is on the beach a little outside the town, with comfortable rooms commanding a fine panorama, a swimming pool on a garden terrace, tennis court and private beach. There are 66 rooms. Doubles cost $100 in August, 25 to 30 percent less in the other months. Open from March 15 to Nov. 30.
CIRELLA: Hotel Ducale, 254 Via Vittorio Veneto, (39-0985) 86051, fax (39-0985) 86401, is a reconverted 18th-century villa in a palm garden, with a private beach. The 24 rooms are modernly furnished. Full board (breakfast and two meals) for two is $95 to $155 off season, $180 during the mid-August peak period; open May to September.
CETRARE: Grand Hotel San Michele, National Route No. 18, Kilometer 293 (17 miles south of Cirella), at 8-9 Localita Bosco, (39-0982) 91013, fax (39-0982) 97430, is a stately villa with 79 rooms on a cliff with an elevator to a small, sandy beach. Double room with breakfast and dinner, from $165 to $295.
COSENZA: Excelsior, 14 Piazza Matteotti, (39-0984) 74383, fax (39-0984) 74384, is plain but satisfactory. This old establishment, refurbished internally and managed by an ambitious young team, charges $60 for a double room and breakfast coffee. Some of the accommodations lack bathrooms and cost $45 for two. An ample pasta dinner in the second-floor restaurant with regional wine is $40 for two. Executive, 59 Via Marconi, in the village of Rende near the University, (39-0984) 401010, fax (39-0984) 402020, has a modern building with a garden and swimming pool. Doubles cost $165. Both Cosenza hotels are open all year.
Where to Eat
TROPEA: Pimm's, 2 Corso Vittorio Emanuele, (39-0963) 666105, occupies the basement and a terrace of an old building at the edge of the cliffs. It offers spicily garnished pastas, fresh seafood and Calabrian wines. A "Calabrian menu" at $17 a person (beverage extra) may include seafood salad, plump macaroni, and swordfish. Dinner a la carte for two, with local wine, will run to $80.
SCALEA: La Rondinella, 31 Via Vittorio Emanuele, (39-0985) 91360, features excellent pasta varieties, made in house, and piquant sausage from the Sila mountains; no seafood. Dinner for two with local wine, $50 to $60.
CIRELLA: La Tartanna, Via Vittorio Veneto, (39-0985) 86564. Fresh seafood is the pride of this walkdown tavern. Dinner for two, with Calabrian wine, $50 to $60.
BELVEDERE MARITTIMO, near Cirella and Diamante: La Risacca, 34 Viale Stazione, (39-0985) 82617, a far-famed fish restaurant, owned and managed by the Bonana family. A recent lunch consisting of ample seafood antipasto, risotto with shrimp, a generous platter of jumbo shrimps and espresso, with a bottle of 1996 white Lamezia wine, cost $90 for two.
COSENZA: Da Giocondo, 53 Via Piave, (39-0984) 29810, in the city's business center, excels in spaghetti and other kinds of pasta with robust meat sauces, mushrooms from the Sila forests, pork and lamb, and fresh vegetables, especially eggplant. The semisoft cheeses from the Sila are worth tasting; some of the desserts are based on local honey. Among the regional wines the Ciro from the Ionian coast is outstanding. Dinner for two, with wine, is about $90. Closed in August.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ancient cliffside town of Tropea. Entrance to the Ducale hotel in Cirella. Frescoes by contemporary artists on the old buildings in Diamante. (Photographs by Francesco Ruggeri for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Scalea, a seaside resort both ancient and modern, seen from its medieval fortress. The Old Town of Cosenza; Alaric the Visigoth's secret burial place is said to be nearby. (Photographs by Francesco Ruggeri for The New York Times)(pg. 9); Cape Vaticano recalls a time when popes had galleys. (Francesco Ruggeri for The New York Times)(pg. 14)
 
Map of Italy shows location of Calabria. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); HOLY SEE (88%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALABRIA (ITALY); ITALY; ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); HOLY SEE (88%); EUROPE (77%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS COASTAL AREAS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEACHES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (51%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: HOFMANN, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



558 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
How Safe Are Thrill Rides?

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
LAST year, my husband and I took some grandchildren to watch a tiny circus set up on a baseball field in Maine. We particularly hoped to see the elephant put up the tent poles with her trunk. No such luck. A backhoe was used. The elephant's owner shouted to bystanders that the elephant could do the job better, but that animal-rights people usually arrived as she started, and by the time all the documents and veterinary certificates were inspected, the tent-pitching was behind schedule, and it was easier to use a machine.
True or not, the tale indicated that people had their eyes on the elephant in her daily work life giving rides and lumbering along in the parade. 
 That memory returned while I was researching amusement park and carnival safety in the light of the recent cluster of four roller coaster deaths. Whose eyes are on the carnival rides, and what powers do they have to protect the customers, especially young ones?
As it turns out, that one-ring circus, which performed twice and struck its tent, was inspected by the Maine Department of Public Safety when it came into the state, and the rides were checked after they were set up. But that show was also under the eye of the Federal Government because the rides traveled from state to state. Not so the big rides in Ocean City, N.J., Santa Clara, Calif., and Doswell, Va., that brought four deaths last month, or those involved in the two earlier reported deaths this year, in Coney Island, and in Arlington, Tex.
In 1981, Congress shifted jurisdiction over nonportable, or "fixed," rides -- roller coasters, whirling devices, water rides and the like -- to the individual states to inspect and regulate. At this time, legislatures in 42 states have established some oversight of amusement rides, according to the Federal Consumer Product Safety Commission, and 8 states have none: Alabama, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah and Vermont.
The state laws have some relationship to the importance of amusement parks to a state's economy. Florida, for example, home of Disney World, Universal Studios Escape, Busch Gardens, Sea World and Wet 'n Wild, has a law that exempts from inspection permanent facilities with 1,000 full-time employees that maintain an inspection staff approved by the state.
 
Strength of Laws Varies
Isadore Rommes, head of the Bureau of Fair Rides Inspections in the Florida Department of Agriculture, says his bureau inspects 120 to 125 smaller parks twice a year, as well as mobile rides. "We think we have the most stringent law in the United States," he said. Since 1987, there have been no recorded deaths on fixed rides in Florida but two on mobile rides and two on rides whose status was not known.
California has 72 permanent theme parks and 48 roller coasters, the most of any state. But although it has had 15 ride-related deaths in 25 years, its law has remained as it was in 1968, with mandatory inspections only for mobile rides and aerial tramways.
However, this year the legislature was still in session in August, when the four ride deaths occurred nationally, and on Aug. 25, when the Boomerang ride at Six Flags Marine World in Vallejo stuck, stranding 28 people above the ground in 100-degree heat for four hours.
The legislators had before them since January a bill presented by Tom Torlakson, a Democratic Assemblyman from Antioch, in the East Bay area, to end the exemption for permanent rides. It was Mr. Torlakson's second attempt with such a bill, and there had been three other efforts since 1979, when there was a rash of accidents. In the last week of the legislature, Mr. Torlakson's Assembly Bill 850 was approved. "It was unfortunate that we had such a mysterious rash of accidents," Mr. Torlakson said. "But they raised public awareness, and people began to ask why we were not regulating this area. The bill was poised for passage this time, but events clinched it." The Assembly confirmation vote was 66 to 6.
Gov. Gray Davis said he looked forward to signing a bill to enhance consumer safety. His signature will mean that beginning Jan. 1 all permanent amusement parks will be checked annually. Los Angeles County, which performs its own inspections, is not covered by this law.
The Federal agency's summary also shows that six states with regulations do not have Government employees conduct inspections, but assign this to insurance companies or other private organizations. These are Arizona, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Mexico, Tennessee and Texas.
The amusement park industry often describes its rides as less hazardous than the automobile trip the family may take to get to the park. Noting that there were 900 million rides taken in 1998, John Graff, president of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions, said that the possibility of being injured seriously enough to be hospitalized was 1 in 25 million and the possibility of being killed was 1 in 450 million. It also compared 43 deaths listed by the Government Consumer Product Safety Commission since 1987 to the 141 people killed by air bags in cars since 1990.
 
43 Deaths Since 1987
Although it does not regulate most of the rides, the safety commission compiles data on ride-related deaths through death certificates, hospital records and news reports. The injury statistics are developed from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, which sorts through hospital emergency room data by codes. From Jan. 1, 1987, to June 30, 1999, the agency's list of 43 deaths linked to amusement rides -- deaths of employees are excluded -- included 21 children under 16.
The reports for 1998 and '99, the agency said, are still incomplete, but the agency said the largest group of deaths, 11 in the 1987-99 period, involved roller coasters. Whirling rides like the one at Coney Island were involved in 10 deaths, water rides in 4, trains in 3 and Ferris wheels in 2. The agency noted a trend toward increased injuries from 1994 to 1998, which may be a result only of an increase in the number of rides and riders, or may have additional causes.
In 1998, the agency estimated, there were 9,200 amusement-park injuries treated in emergency rooms: 2,100 involving mobile rides, 4,500 fixed rides and 2,600 where the type of ride was not known. The agency estimated that 0.8 percent of these injuries required a hospital stay, a very low rate since the overall hospitalization rate for all areas was about 4 percent.
 
Customer Behavior an Issue
Although the agency gathers and publishes amusement park injury and death figures, as it does for other sorts of products, it has no power to investigate or link injuries and deaths to four potential causes: consumer behavior, operator behavior, mechanical failure or design limitation. Ann Brown, chairwoman of the product safety commission, describes herself as frustrated. A number of officials in the industry, including a spokesman for the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions and a spokesman for the Six Flags theme park company, say that rider behavior -- "horseplay," one spokesman called it -- is at fault in more than 75 percent of the cases. "We don't really know if there is a pattern," Ms. Brown said. "The industry can say something, and they may be right and they may not be right. We need Federal oversight of amusement park rides. We need to do what we do in other areas. We need on-site surveys, so we can come up with recommendations."
Ms. Brown said her agency considered children a major concern. "When a product is investigated," she said, "we separate out the cases involving children under 5 and work on what needs to be done, and then at the next level and so on." In the cluster of four deaths last month, there were two children, one 8, who died with her mother in the roller coaster in New Jersey, and a disabled 12-year-old, who died on the Drop Zone, a ride at Paramount's Great America in California.
The amusement park trade organization has been fighting on several fronts to avoid injuries and to improve its reputation. Boyd F. Jensen, a lawyer who serves on the safety committee of the amusement park group, said his group was pressing states to adopt "patron safety laws" and that 15 jurisdictions had. "There are three causes of injuries," he said, "customer behavior, operator behavior and mechanical safety. These last two are heavily regulated but there aren't any laws that attempt to regulate the behavior of patrons. We are just trying to even the balance."
Mr. Jensen's model laws provide civil penalties for patrons who interfere with rides or do not comply with posted rules. "People need to know there will be a consequence if they cause accidents," he said.
 
Black Diamonds for Rides?
Joel L. Cliff, a spokesman for the amusement parks group, which has a convention in Atlanta in November, said that guidelines for safety signs were being worked on. One version adopts the three shapes and colors used in skiing because, the literature said, it is logical to have a uniform standard for all forms of recreation. A "mild thrill attraction" would have a round green sign, a blue square would indicate "moderate thrills" and a black diamond, "high thrills."
One version of a black diamond sign had this text: "High speeds with extremely unusual and stressful physical forces. This ride contains startling and unexpected thrills appropriate only for the most healthy and physically able riders."
The Consumer Product Safety Commission's directory of state amusement ride safety officials can be read on the commission's Web site at www.cpsc.gov. Or a copy of the information for a particular state may be obtained by sending a request and a stamped self-addressed envelope to the commission, whose address is simply Washington, D.C. 20207.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSCH GARDENS WILLIAMSBURG (52%); WET 'N WILD INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ROLLER COASTERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BASEBALL (78%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); DEREGULATION (69%); PRODUCT SAFETY (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); APPROVALS (62%); MAMMALS (58%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (56%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY TOM TORLAKSON (69%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



559 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /Long Island;
Luxury Rentals for Those Who Don't Want to Own

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE

 BODY:
TAKING advantage of the strong housing market, Terence and Virginia Ciccone sold their four-bedroom Cape Cod in Lindenhurst last March for $170,000 just a day after listing it for sale.
Now they are spending $1,775 a month on rent, not counting utilities, for a three-bedroom, three-bath apartment in a new project here called Fairfield Hills, happy to leave all the headaches of homeownership to someone else. 
 "We'd been talking about selling the house for years, but we could never really decide where we wanted to go," said Mr. Ciccone, who runs a truck-repair shop. "So we decided to rent to see what it was like. This way, you take a year-to-year lease and if you want to stay a year, you can, and if you want to stay 10 years you can, but you can get up and go any time your lease is up."
Mrs. Ciccone is a graphic artist and the couple have two children, Terence Jr., 21, and Joseph, 18.
Families like the Ciccones are stoking demand for a relatively new type of housing on Long Island -- apartments that command high rents and are attractive enough to compete with new for-sale housing by offering spacious layouts, private garages in some cases, and the pool, clubhouse and other amenities usually found in condominium developments.
The market is attracting a broad spectrum of customers whose preference is renting, but who want a product that offers more than the traditional garden apartments that have been standard in most of Long Island, especially in Suffolk. They include older couples who have sold a house and no longer want to deal with even a leaky faucet as well as professionals who want the flexibility of relocating any time they choose.
"This feels like a house, but gives me flexibility -- and I don't have to mow the grass or clean the pool," said Donald Frost, a 51-year-old self-employed interior designer who, with his wife, Maureen, rented a two-bedroom and den apartment at Fairfield Hills. With a washer and dryer it costs them $1,860 monthly.
Fairfield Hills, one of several such communities under construction in Suffolk, began leasing in March. All but 19 of its 169 apartments have been preleased or rented, said Mark I. Broxmeyer, one of the principals of Fairfield Properties of Commack, which is developing the project on 25 acres near the Bald Hill Cultural Center. Those still not spoken for won't be ready before January, he added.
"We can't build them fast enough," he said.
His three partners are his brother, Gary, his son, Michael A., and David Schachne. "What we have provided here is the comfort of a home without the obligations of homeownership," said Gary Broxmeyer.
Fairfield Hills is a $19-million project. When completed it will have a gatehouse and a 7,000-square-foot clubhouse, with a business center, a fitness center and a library among other features. There will be a pool, a playground and a sports court for tennis, volleyball and basketball.
Renters can choose from nine different layouts, providing variations with eat-in kitchens, loft areas overlooking the living room, fireplaces and private garages. All have central air-conditioning and alarm systems. Vaulted ceilings, ceramic floors in bathrooms and kitchens and tiled baths are also standard.
Ranch-style apartments range in size from a 1,207-square-foot one-bedroom and den with a monthly rent of $1,485 to a three-bedroom, 1,575-square-foot unit with an attached garage, which rents for $1,835 monthly. The apartments, which have either a patio or a deck, are on the lower and upper floors of two-story town houses.
Individual town houses are also available. The smallest, a one-bedroom, den and loft with a private garage and 1,343 square feet of living area, is available for $1,625 monthly and the largest, a 1,434-square-foot two-bedroom and den with no garage is available for $1,565 monthly. Those without private garages have two allocated parking spaces. Detached garages are available for $85 a month extra.
APPLIANCES include stoves, refrigerators, dishwashers and microwave ovens. Hookups are provided for washers and dryers, which can be rented separately for an extra $35 a month.
Each apartment has a private front entrance behind a private landscaped front yard, which is separated from the street by a low brick wall. "That courtyard gives a sense of entranceway to each individual units and provides a sense of elegance," said Thomas J. Pirkl of Bay Shore, the architect for the project.
Exteriors are partly brick, and the design elements include varied roof lines, Palladian windows and nine-foot-wide sliding glass doors that lead to patios and balconies instead of the more standard six-foot doors.
Fairfield Properties has started construction on a similar project in Setauket, where leasing will start in December for its 64 units; Another, with 66 apartments to be built in Port Jefferson Village, will start start leasing in March. The company has also applied for a rezoning on a 31.5-acre parcel adjoining the Farmingville project on which it hopes to build 204 apartments.
The profile of renters is changing, Gary Broxmeyer said. Residents of Fairfield Hills typically have annual family incomes of $90,000 to $100,000, he said.
The relative affluence of a new generation of renters willing to pay for space and better design, along with the fact that many are former homeowners, is leading to a change in attitude. Even in communities where homeownership has always been sacrosanct rentals are now becoming more acceptable because of the kind of rental housing being built, said Gary Broxmyer. This is also the nationwide trend, said Michael D. Giardiano, a partner in the Martin Architectural Group in Philadelphia, which is the architect of another luxury rental, the 165-unit Stonegate apartment complex under construction on 79 acres in Middle Island.
"The whole pace of our society is picking up and people are moving much more fluidly," he said. "People are making a nice living and they are being single until later in life and they want to live in a nice community. And the people who are maturing and want to get out of a big house are used to a feel of luxury and space and don't want to move into cramped quarters."
The Stonegate apartments on average are smaller than those at Fairfield Hills, with one-bedroom units ranging in size from 747 square feet to 830 square feet and two-bedroom apartments 1,035 square feet to 1,118 square feet; three-bedroom units are 1,369 square feet. All have either a deck or a patio. Monthly rents start at $1,075 and go to $1,495, not including heat and utilities.
Other than size of units, Stonegate, which is being developed by Wilder Balter Partners of Elmsford, N.Y., at a cost of $17.5 million, takes the same approach as the Fairfield Hills project by providing features normally found only in condominium projects. Each unit has a private outside entrance and the design incorporates a lot of window glass.
Of the 165 apartments, 45 have attached garages, which can be rented for an extra $90 a month. Amenities include a clubhouse with a business center, a library, an exercise room and a party room. There is a pool along with two tennis courts. All but six of the apartments have been leased since renting began in January.
"A lot of people today no longer take the approach of, 'I have to own a house, I want to go out and mow the lawn,' " said Robert H. Wilder Jr., one of the development partners. "People today often work more than a 40-hour week and value their time more and want to do different things. They are what we call the renter of choice. They can afford to own, but they elect to rent."
The higher rents people are now willing to pay allow projects of this type to make economic sense, said Ross C. Cassata of Babylon, who along with a partner, Glenn D. Feldman of Deer Park, is building a 402-unit rental project costing $30 million on 45 acres in Holtsville. Of the 130 units at Victorian Gardens that are completed, 125 are rented, Mr. Cassata said. Leasing began in March. A second phase of 150 units is under construction.
One-bedroom units at Victorian Gardens are 1,000 square feet in size and rent monthly for $1,250, and the 1,200-square-foot two bedrooms rent for $1,425. Rentals include heat and washers and dryers. The 45-acre complex includes a 5,000-square-foot clubhouse, a pool, two tennis and basketball courts and a three-acre lake.
"Right now, the buzz out there is luxury rental housing with all the amenities," Mr. Cassata said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Gary, Mark, and, far right, Michael A. Broxmyer, with David Schachne, partners in Fairfield Hills. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (73%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (70%); VISUAL ARTS (67%); 

PERSON: VIRGINIA CICCONE (62%); GARY BROXMEYER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



560 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
'Living Large' in the State's New 'Wealth Belt'

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FOR some time, planners and developers have known that, with the southward migration of employment centers and home buyers, much of the state's growth has in recent years settled in its midsection.
Now two Rutgers University professors have collected the statistics to show that the state's growth has shifted to what they call "the emerging wealth belt" at its core, and away from its northern sector. 
 In terms of property values, population jobs and personal income, they say, the wealth belt -- made up of Hunterdon, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer and Somerset Counties -- has supplanted the mature northern counties of Bergen, Essex, Passaic, Hudson and Union Counties as the most prosperous. That assertion is in "The Emerging Wealth Belt: New Jersey's New Millennium Geography," a report by James W. Hughes and Joseph J. Seneca.
Dr. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Public Policy and Planning at Rutgers, said this shift is different from earlier ones because "the state's transition from a service- to a technology-age economy converged with the maturing of the baby boom generation, causing both an economic and demographic shift farther and farther away from the urban areas."
It also reflects a phenomenon the authors call "living large in New Jersey," which provided the wealth belt with its clearest sign of prosperity -- large and expensive homes for well-off baby boomers who want to live where they now work.
That trend is benefiting the market for high-end homes, said John G. Udell, president of Weichert New Homes and Land, a land broker and marketer in Morris Plains. Most of these homes, he added, are going up in the central part of the state, notably in Somerset and Morris Counties, where land is more available than in the northern counties.
Lynette Hamara, district manager in the new homes division of Coldwell Banker, added that purchasers of the high-end home projects in the district she manages, which includes Somerset, Hunterdon and Warren Counties, are generally trade-up baby boomers who work in the area. "And there are a lot of them out there," she said.
But the emergence of the wealth belt is both good news and bad news, said Dr. Hughes. "It reflects both a vigorous economy and an increase in sprawl and congestion."
The employment gains that resulted from that strong economy, the report said, settled in the six central counties. Those counties experienced explosive office growth, driven by the financial-services industry, in the 1980's, when 80 percent of the state's office inventory of 110 million square feet was built, much of it along highway corridors in the wealth belt, such as Route 1 and Interstates 80 and 287.
IN the 1990's, computer-related, genetic-engineering and new-media companies moved into that ready supply of office space. According to the report, from 1970 to 1997 the number of jobs in the state grew from 3.1 million to 3.8 million. In that time the wealth belt's share of the total number of jobs increased to 35 percent from 25 percent, while the northern counties' share dropped to 40 percent from 53 percent.
At the same time the state's population grew by nearly one million to 8 million, with the wealth belt capturing half of that growth, pushing its share of the state's total population to 31 percent from 27 percent. In comparison, the northern counties' share fell to 38 percent from 48 percent.
Those gains, the report said, spurred the demand for housing from maturing baby boomers, many of whom work for the technology companies. And with most of those buyers at their peak earning and family rearing years, "their ability to buy ever-larger single-family homes is at unprecedented levels," the report said.
In the 1990's, more than 85 percent of the building permits issued in the state have been for single family homes, representing a record share of the market, the report said.
In 1998 the average size of a new home nationally and in New Jersey was nearly 2,300 square feet. In the large-lot subdivisions of the state's central counties the size of a typical home is easily 3,600 square feet, and goes to 5,000 square feet or more.
According to state figures the average price of a new house in New Jersey is about $251,000, up from $227,500 last year. For homes in the luxury category, many of them concentrated in the wealth belt, prices start at $500,000 industry professionals said.
Dr. Hughes pointed out that while large, high-end homes in the wealth belt were proliferating, established towns like Short Hills in Essex County and Alpine in Bergen County, in the northern sector, continue to snag their share. Because land in the latter communities is scarce the trend is to raze small existing homes and replace them with larger more expensive ones.
Dr. Hughes said, and real estate professionals agree, that the demand for new homes has not been dampened. Among the reasons, he said, are that most baby boomers are still raising families and the state is in its 102d month of recovery. One effect of such factors is an increase in the construction of large, high-end homes; over the near term, Dr. Hughes said, "we'll see the same type of housing being built."
In Holmdel in Monmouth County, for example, Pinnacle Communities of Millburn, which builds high-end single-family homes, has started work on a 35-home subdivision called the Gables. The homes, each on a two-acre lot, are spread over 120 wooded acres on Laurel Avenue, within a mile of Route 35 and the Garden State Parkway.
"Holmdel is a major growth community and our audience is people who live and work in town," said Brian Stolar, Pinnacle's president. "We're still selling to baby boomers, as we have for the last five years, only now they want a bigger house that works for their busy lifestyle."
Base prices for the homes, with 4,500 to 7,500 square feet, are $750,000 to $1.2 million and so far contracts have been signed for 10 homes, Mr. Stolar said. He said the more than 500 homes his company has under way or will begin in the next 18 months are evenly distributed between the central part of the state and the northern counties.
Sterling Properties of Livingston, however, has concentrated its focus for high-end housing on Morris and Somerset Counties and looks for locations close to corporate hubs, said Joseph Forgione, a Sterling principal. "Our buyers," he added, "absolutely are baby boomers who live and work in the area and want to trade up."
At Oakview, a 14-home enclave Sterling recently completed in Hanover Township in Morris County, Mr. Forgione said four of the buyers work for Lucent Technologies and AT&T, whose headquarters are nearby. He said the homes, each with 3,500 square feet on average and set on minimum 1.5-acre lots, sold in the $600,000 range.
Mr. Forgione said his company expects a similar response to Chestnut Ridge, a 49-home project in Bernardsville in Somerset County. The 65-acre project, on Pill Hill Road, is about five miles from both Parsippany and Bridgewater, two office hubs. Prices for the homes, with 3,000 to more than 4,000 square feet, start at $500,000.
Wayne Patterson, a senior vice president at Toll Brothers, of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., a national builder of high-end homes active in New Jersey, said that of the 620 houses Toll will build in the state this year, half are in Somerset County. "The availability of land for the homes we build is in the wealth belt," he added.
Its latest project is Montgomery Green in Montgomery Township in Somerset County, with 53 homes, each with 3,000 to 5,300 square feet and set on acre lots. They are spread over an 80-acre tract along Green Avenue, not far from Route 202, which is home to many pharmaceutical firms, Mr. Patterson said. Base prices start at $534,975, he said, adding that "typically our buyers are 41-year-old trade-up buyers."
Dr. Hughes said the growth pressures were likely to continue in the wealth belt, but the sprawl and congestion problems raised the question of whether it was "at the limit of space and population."
John Udell, of Weichert, added that the tear-down, build-up trend is beginning in certain parts of Morris and Somerset Counties.
Other factors affecting the wealth belt, added Dr. Hughes, are state antisprawl initiatives. He was referring to the state's intent to buy 1 million acres of open space, which will make it more difficult to develop in the suburbs, and its Development and Redevelopment Plan, which is aimed at channeling growth back to cities and towns.
But, he said, demographic changes and building for baby boomers as they become empty nesters and make new housing and location choices may well determine the next housing and growth pattern. "That future hasn't been invented yet," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A $537,400 base-price house at 14-unit Oakview in Hanover Township, left. (Cahn Communications) A $799,990 base-price house at 35-unit Gables in Holmdel, above. (Pinnacle Communities Ltd.)
 
Map of New Jersey, highlighting the "Wealth Belt."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE; HUGHES, JAMES W (DR); SENECA, JOSEPH J (DR) ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



561 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property /Stamford, Conn.;
A Pioneer Business Park That Confounded Critics

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
HIGH RIDGE PARK, the iconic 32-year-old office campus in Stamford's leafy northern reaches that was a pioneer in accommodating the 70's flight of corporations to the suburbs, is up for sale. While an aggressive but brief marketing effort has come to a halt, the six-building center is still on the market.
 "It's up in the air," said Robert N. Rich, 71, president of the F. D. Rich Company, developer of the office park and city-designated urban renewal developer of downtown Stamford in the 60's and 70's. "We got some bids, but no offers that prompted a sale. We are not actively pursuing it." 
 Rockwood Realty Associates of Manhattan retains its status as broker.
Hidden from view just off High Ridge Road and Exit 34 of the Merritt Parkway, the six-building complex with a total of 500,000 square feet is valued at $100 million by local brokers and by the partners who have owned it since the first building went up in 1967.
Mr. Rich, his brother, Frank D. Rich Jr., and his son Thomas L. Rich and their families are the managing partners, with 31 percent ownership; the Hoffman Brothers and the Calman Ginsberg families of Stamford and New York, respectively, each own 31 percent and Ruth Miller, widow of Sam Miller, the real estate broker who sold the 40-acre site to the Riches in 1965 for $450,000, has 7 percent.
"We share the same investment goals as the Riches," said Steven Hoffman, a partner and third generation head of his family's real estate firm. "We are rarely sellers. But every piece of property has its price. At a price, we would sell the park, but we operate day to day as if we were going to own it forever."
The office park's futuristic, sculptural white buildings are set amid luxurious landscaping along a winding road. A large circular pond punctuates the center of the property. The late Victor Bisharat, a Jordanian educated at the American University in Lebanon and the University of California at Berkley, was the architect.
From opening day to completion seven years later the buildings, each one markedly different from the others, were, according to Mr. Rich, "loved by the public and universally disapproved of by architectural critics." In newspaper reports the low, round General Time building took the brunt of the quips, which likened it to a hamburger or a space ship.
Nevertheless, leading companies committed to 20-year leases at annual rents of $5.75 a square foot for the first few tenants. The first two were CBS Laboratories and General Time, followed by Continental Oil, Champion International, Texas-Gulf (later Elf-Aquitane), General Signal, Xerox, Citizen's Utilities and the American Thread Company, among others. All set up headquarters in the park. Today, rents range from the $20's to more than $30 a square foot.
Early on, architectural criticism was not the only unkind cut. Jon Smith, Stamford's planning director from 1950 to 1993, recalls the lawsuits. "Site plans went all the way to the State Supreme Court, twice," he said. The neighbors appealed the Planning Board and Zoning Board approvals of the park for permitting it in a residential neighborhood. But the property had been rezoned by a previous owner as a "design commercial" district, allowing for campus development in residential areas, and the court upheld the boards, said Mr. Smith.
High Ridge Park was the Riches' first major project as developers after almost half a century as a construction company founded by F. D. Rich, Sr., a stonemason from Italy. Now, it is their last major holding.
All that remains of an empire of office buildings, hotels, and apartments stretching from Connecticut to the Caribbean is their part-interest in High Ridge Park, the Avon movie theater in Stamford and an office building in Puerto Rico. The rest was lost in the real estate recession of the late 80's and early 90's, except for a half-interest in the Town Center mall, which they sold to Allegis Realty Investors in Hartford last October.
With the sale of the park on hold, Mr. Rich's son, Thomas L., senior vice president of the F. D. Rich Company and president of Thomas L. Rich Enterprises, said that refinancing its mortgage was being considered. "Rates are lower and could generate cash for the partners," he said. "We are in the real estate business to make money."
The location of the business park -- about three-and-a-half miles north of the business center -- was originally expected to make it difficult to attract tenants. But occupancy rates have held steady in good times and bad at over 90 percent and a current spike in vacancies is shrugged off by the owners as temporary.
AT present, the 74,000-square-foot Building No. 1 will be available at the end of the year if Priceline, an Internet hotel, car, mortgage and airline ticket-pricing service, does not renew its lease. A total of 44,000 square feet are available on a sublease from Cadbury Beverages in its 160,000-square-foot headquarters Building No. 6 and 7,000 square feet will be ready for occupancy in Building No. 2, the "hamburger" building, after renovations are completed early next year.
"In general," said Edward Tonnessen, a broker with the Stamford office of Albert B. Ashforth, a real estate brokerage, "the park needs overall updating. There are challenges in dated lobbies, elevators, and mechanical systems. It's still a very sought-after location next to the Merritt, and second only to downtown." Mr. Tonnensen is leasing agent for Cadbury.
Commonplace as office parks are today, in the 60's there was only one in New York City's northern suburbs comparable to High Ridge Park. Built on Route 1 in western Greenwich, outside the business district, the 450,000-square-foot Greenwich Office Park is still going strong.
Constructed between 1969 and 1978 on 23 acres, its nine buildings were the headquarters of Anaconda Wire and Cable, Phelps Dodge, Continental Can, Clarion Marketing and United Parcel Service, among others.
"Greenwich Office Park is more understated -- uniform," said Steven J. Schacter, second generation head of Fawn Associates, Greenwich developers and managers of the park and several other complexes. "The low brick buildings were designed to blend in with the existing landscape of rolling hills, lots of trees, and two natural ponds."
The park was sold in May 1997 to the Oregon Pension Fund after nine months on the market. "The seven partners," said Mr. Schacter, "were all in their 70s, and it was time to disentangle themselves." It was sold fully occupied with 60 diverse tenants. In the 70's nine corporate tenants filled the entire complex.
Sy Schwartz, a retired founder of Fawn Associates, said, "my park was a longshot, but the land was cheap enough and we succeeded by moving very slowly." Independently of each other, he and Robert Rich sensed movement in the office market of the 60's, sought partners and began building on speculation.
Mr. Rich said he was listening when "Pepsico, Olin, American Can and the New York Stock Exchange were talking about leaving the city." By the mid-80's, at the height of the real estate boom, the F. D. Rich Company had built, owned and managed more than 4.4 million square feet, or about one-third of the first class commercial space then in Stamford.
The properties included High Ridge Park, the company's signature Landmark Building, the Stamford Town Center mall, the GTE building, the Marriott Hotel, 4, 6, 8 and 10 Stamford Forum, 300 Atlantic Street and 177 Broad Street.
Several of those buildings were positioned to form a glittering, mile-long wall of glass along the north side of Interstate 95. Again, the Riches were criticized, this time for the fortress architecture that marked almost all of their projects. The public was dismayed by a pedestrian-hostile downtown where buildings could be entered only by car.
"The streets were never meant to be for pedestrians," said Mr. Rich. "GTE came here because they were bombed in New York. Crime was a problem in the city. That's why the buildings were designed to be impenetrable."
Over the years criticism has ebbed, and the Riches are accepted by a new generation of residents and inbound commuters. "Rich was a prime mover and he has been good for Stamford," said Arthur Collins Sr., head of Collins Enterprises in Greenwich, a major developer of high end waterfront projects. "The architecture of High Ridge Park is a bit diverse, but lots of companies want that individuality. The important thing is to rent the space, not satisfy architectural critics."
Charles T. Lee, a Stamford attorney who was chairman of the Urban Redevelopment Commission from 1984 to 1991, wonders whether High Ridge Park would have been built at all were it not for lawsuits against the city and the commission that halted downtown reconstruction for eight years.
While resident groups protested in court against the demolition of nine city blocks, and the displacement of 400 businesses and 110 families, the Riches turned their energies toward developing High Ridge Park.
In recalling reactions of residents to the later total alteration of downtown Stamford by the Riches, Mr. Lee said:
"I would get nightly phone calls from a former letter carrier who couldn't find the streets he used to walk. The people were reeling from future shock. But we now have a superb emerging city. We're not just some office complex out in a cornfield on the interstate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert N. Rich, president of F. D. Rich Company, at the "hamburger" building in High Ridge Park. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Map of southwestern Connecticut, highlighting Stamford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HIGH RIDGE PARK (STAMFORD, CONN); RICH, F D, CO CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGH RIDGE PARK (STAMFORD, CONN); RICH, F D, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: FRANK D RICH JR (72%); THOMAS L RICH (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



562 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 40; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER

 BODY:

Best Bet
With three major exhibitions opening, art dominates the cultural scene this week. Today at the Nassau County Museum of Art off Northern Boulevard in Roslyn Harbor, "Rodin: Sculpture From the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Collection" begins a stay through Jan. 2, with 70 works ranging in size from 10 inches to 9 feet tall, including "The Age of Bronze," "The Thinker" and "The Kiss." The second-floor gallery is showing "Three Realist Sculptors: George Segal, Duane Hanson and John De Andrea." From Oct. 8 to Nov. 19, the museum will be open until 9 P.M. on Fridays with jazz and swing concerts (484-9337). 
 Also today, the Parrish Art Museum on Job's Lane in Southampton opens "Drawing Is Another Kind of Language: Recent American Drawings From a New York Private Collection." The collector is Werner H. Kramarsky, and his collection, seen in public for the first time, includes works by Jasper Johns, Ellsworth Kelly, Brice Marden, Agnes Martin and Richard Serra. The show runs through Nov. 14 (283-2118).
On Saturday the Museums at Stony Brook on Route 25A turn the Art Museum over to "William Sidney Mount: Family and Friends," an exhibition that focuses on the human roots of his genre painting and seeks to identify his models. It runs through Jan. 9 (751-0066).
 
Another Roosevelt
In its first major conference of the new academic year, Hofstra University takes a look at "The Vision of Eleanor Roosevelt: World Citizen Ahead of Her Time." The three-day event, Thursday through Saturday, on the Hempstead campus features scholarly papers on her life and times; panel discussions focusing on her relationship with the news media and her contributions to human rights; personal reminiscences of those who knew her, among them her granddaughters Anne Eleanor Roosevelt and Nancy Roosevelt Ireland, and sessions with biographers like Blanche Wiesen Cook.
On Thursday, "Eleanor's Gift," a commissioned by New Heritage Music from the composer Chen Yi, will be performed as the centerpiece of a chamber music concert, and on Saturday the original cast members from the recent production at Ford's Theater in Washington will offer a concert version of "Eleanor: An American Love Story," with music by Thomas Tierney, lyrics by John Forster and book by Jonathan Bolt. Both performances are at 8 P.M. at the John Cranford Hays Theater. An exhibition, "Opportunities for Joyous Living: The Vision of Eleanor Roosevelt," runs through October at the Lowenfeld Exhibition Hall and the Filderman Gallery of the Axinn Library (463-5669).
 
Back Again
Four Island-based musical groups return to the stage today. The Wellwood Ensemble plays classical works and folk tunes at 2 P.M. at the Babylon Library on South Carll Avenue (669-1624); the American Chamber Ensemble, joined by Stanley Drucker, principal clarinetist for the New York Philharmonic, holds its annual "Music Party," featuring classical music and musical comedy, at 3 P.M. at the Axinn Library on Hofstra University's Hempstead campus (223-0454), and Ridotto, "Concerts With a Touch of Theater," offers "The Romantic Piano," with Alexander Peskanov tracing 19th-century piano music from Beethoven to Schumann, at 4 P.M. at Old First Church, Route 25A in Huntington (385-0373). Finally, the Brentano String Quartet plays music by Schubert and Mackey in a benefit concert for the Garden City Chamber Music Society at 3 P.M. at the Unitarian Universal Congregation on Stewart Avenue in Garden City (248-8855). On Saturday, performing "Baroque Jewels," the Long Island Baroque Ensemble has the spotlight all to itself in a concert at 8 P.M. at St. Andrew's Lutheran Church on New Mill Road in Smithtown. It will be repeated at 3 P.M. Sunday at Christ Episcopal Church in Oyster Bay (724-7386).
 
Going It Alone
Solo singers take center stage this week. Megan Henry, a mezzo-
soprano who has appeared with the New York City Opera, performs music of Barber, Bellini, Copland and Purcell in a benefit for the Long Island Singers today at 3 P.M. at the Roesch home on Petite Place in Glen Cove (759-6105). Richard Adler, the composer and lyricist of "Damn Yankees" and "The Pajama Game", appears in a session of talk and songs, backed by a vocal duo and pianist, at 8 P.M. on Friday at the Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center on Main Street
(288-1500). Kathleen Battle, one of the reigning divas of the day, gives her only New York-area recital, singing music of Donizetti, Faure, Handel and Mozart, on Saturday at 8 P.M. at Tilles Center on the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville (299-3100).
 
Still More Fairs
Four more newcomers are in the offing this week. Today from 11 A.M. to 4:30 P.M., the Long Island Apple Festival, with games like bobbing for apples and relay races, open-hearth cooking, an apple pie bake-off, storytelling and traditional music, arrives at the Sherwood-Jayne House on Old Post Road in East Setauket, an 18th-century farmhouse with its original apple orchard (751-3730).
The weekend brings three events. Celebrate Huntington takes over Heckscher Park at 6 P.M. Friday and 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Saturday and Sunday with entertainment, international food, a horse show, antique cars and a farmers' market (351-1910). Farther east, Wildwood State Park in Wading River holds its Fall Festival with a pie-eating contest, tractor rides, entertainment, American Indian dancing, a craft fair, a petting zoo and pony rides Saturday and Sunday from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. (669-1000, extension 247). Finally, in Yaphank, the Suffolk County Farm and Education Center holds its Pumpkin Fest '99, with games, rides, a mime circus, a 15-acre corn maze, hayrides and pumpkin picking from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Saturday and Sunday (727-7850).
 
Two Tours
Touring, by foot or bike, figure in two offbeat events. Today, via Long Island Traditions, those who prefer to travel by shank's mare may visit the cottages at West Meadow Beach in the Setauket-Stony Brook Harbor. Nancy Solomon, a folklorist, will lead two-hour tours, starting at 10:30 A.M. and 2 P.M., of these bungalows built in the early 1920's by local residents anxious to escape flu epidemics along the East Coast. Unless they get preservation status in time, they will be razed in 2004 (767-8803).
Next Sunday, a Discover Long Island Bike Tour leaves the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale at 8 A.M., wending its way, traffic-free, down Meadowbrook Parkway to Point Lookout Beach and back again to the Coliseum for a festival, complete with stunt biking, entertainment and food concessions. Participants may ride for 15, 25 or 50 miles. Proceeds will go to local charities, including the Education and Assistance Corporation (735-3100).
 
At the Libraries
After their summer break, local libraries return to the performing arts. Today the schedule resonates with music and theater. William Lawrence performs a one-man play, "Disraeli," at 2 P.M. at the Half Hollow Hills Library in Dix Hills (421-4530). Musically, Lisa Winters sings the blues at 1 P.M. at the Deer Park Library (586-3000); Raiz Andina plays South American tunes at 2:30 P.M. at the Hempstead Library (481-6990); Jim Turner and Lydia Adams Davis perform blues, rock and folk at 3 P.M. at the Long Beach Library
(432-7201); the Island Lyric Opera presents a concert version of "Madama Butterfly" at 3 P.M. at the Manhasset Library (627-2300); the Wand'ring Minstrels sing Gilbert and Sullivan at 2 P.M. at the Massapequa Library (799-0770); Harriet Rieff and Vernon Raphael, actors, and Henry Lowinger, pianist, contribute "They Made Beautiful Music: The Life and Work of George Sand and Frederic Chopin" at 2 P.M. at the Rockville Centre Library (766-6257), and Judith Alstader, pianist, performs "Women Composers: From Romantic to Ragtime" at 2:30 P.M. at the Southold Library
(765-2077).
 
Free Choices
 
TODAY -- The Lyman Langdon Audubon Society offers a "Garvies Point Adventure" at the preserve in Glen Cove, starting with bird walks at 4 and 5 P.M. on the lookout for migrant species and those "confusing fall warblers." Then, at 7 P.M., Peter Schmidt offers his raptor program, complete with live birds of prey
(676-4620).
 
WEDNESDAY -- While the subject of the millennium may have lost some of its interest, there is no escaping it. Hence "Looking Forward, Looking Back: On the Bridge to the Millennium," a seminar by Ralph Buultjens, an economist and author, who will take a look at established patterns of global power and anticipated change at 3 P.M. at the Hillwood Commons Lecture Hall on the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville (299-2580).
Always good for a laugh or two, Carl Reiner, the writer, director and actor, shows up at 7:30 P.M. at the Book Revue on New York Avenue in Huntington to plug his latest literary effort, "How Paul Robeson Saved My Life" (271-1442). BARBARA DELATINER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Good Enough to Eat? -- "Glass Candies" by Joseph Michetti is part of an exhibition of works by Mr. Michetti, Dorothy Stewart and Arlene Von Frank through Oct. 17 at Gallery East in East Hampton (324-93-93).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC (88%); THEATER (84%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SEGAL (57%); RICHARD ANTHONY SERRA (55%); JASPER JOHNS JR (55%); AGNES MARTIN (55%); ELLSWORTH KELLY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



563 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 2; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Habitats/Downtown Manhattan;
Moving in With the Boss And Renovating a Co-op

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
FELICITAS OEFELEIN, a 30-year-old immigrant from Germany who works as an interior designer, has moved five times in seven years. Her boss, she says, jokes that when it's time to paint, it's time to move. And clearly, she agrees.
For the last month, she has been renovating a one-bedroom co-op at 3 Hanover Square, a 205-unit building near Wall Street constructed in 1928 as the Cotton Exchange. She paid $135,000 for the 700-square-foot apartment, the same amount she got for her studio in Chelsea, which was half the size. In fact, impressed by her (relative) bargain, three of Ms. Oefelein's friends, including Frank Scala, a decorative painter who is her boyfriend, have decided to buy apartments in the building. 
 When Ms. Oefelein found the building, she wasn't really serious about moving. Just looking. While browsing through real estate listings on the Internet, however, she happened to see that an open house was planned for an apartment at 3 Hanover Square. "I didn't even know where it was," she says. She has always lived in the Village, or Chelsea.
But for fun, she decided to go downtown. And when the broker, Katherine Kane Vaccaro of Douglas Elliman, showed her renderings of a planned restoration of the neighborhood -- including outdoor cafes, cobblestone streets and new lighting -- she was entranced. "It reminded me of Europe," she says. So she asked Ms. Vaccaro to put her Chelsea studio on the market.
Almost immediately, she had a signed contract, and with that in hand was able to get a mortgage on the place at Hanover Square. But there was one problem. She wanted to gut it, and she would have to move out of her old place before the work even started. Fortunately, she and her boss, Laura Bohn, have a history together with renovations.
WHEN Ms. Bohn and her husband were moving a few years ago, they camped out with their dog and cat in Ms. Oefelein's studio for a few weeks, and Ms. Oefelein moved in with a friend. This time, they have more than returned the favor: Ms. Oefelein has been renovating for five weeks and living, the whole time, with the boss.
Every morning, before she goes to work, Ms. Oefelein, who is the general contractor on her renovation, heads down to Hanover Square, a few blocks from the Wall Street stop of the Nos. 2 and 3 trains, and meets with her crew. "It's like the United Nations," she says, with workers from many countries. "Every morning at 8 I'm here, with coffee and muffins, feeding my guys."
Most dramatically, she has transformed the space by tearing out a dropped ceiling, making the ceilings three feet higher. The moment the old ceiling came down was a scary one, she says, because it exposed a giant, no longer functioning, air-conditioning duct.
"The whole ceiling had holes like grenade holes," she says. "It was like something out of a James Bond movie." When the building was converted to apartments in 1984, she says, the developer obviously decided it was cheaper to crop the ceilings than remove all the duct work.
In the kitchen, she has cut a large opening to the living room and installed Ikea cabinets of aluminum and frosted glass, with stainless steel appliances and marble counters. The bathroom, too, is all new, with limestone floors and a subtle mosaic tile pattern around the bathtub. In the bedroom, Mr. Scala will redo the walls in Venetian plaster, which, she says, comes out looking "really smooth, like marble."
In the hallway, all her possessions are in boxes, neatly stacked and labeled: kitchen, dry food; shoes and humidifier; art supplies, handbags. Her furniture is living with another friend, she says, whose dog has made her mattress his own.
Ms. Vaccaro, who says she has sold more than 20 apartments in the building in the last two years, says studios now sell for about $100,000, one-bedrooms about $170,000, and two-bedrooms in the $350,000 range. "I've sold to a lot of traders who fall out of bed and go to work," she says.Apartments were available because rising prices made owners eager to sell, she said.
Not all the apartments need renovating, although many still have the lowered ceilings. For Ms. Oefelein, though, that is clearly part of the fun, although she also likes the economics of buying and building. Two years ago, she says, "I was paying $1,400 to rent a studio."
When she bought her place in Chelsea for $70,000, she spent $20,000 to renovate, getting some help from her father, a brewing engineer in Germany, in laying new floors. After her move, she says, her monthly housing costs were lowered by almost 50 percent.
"I saved it and invested in stocks," she says. In her new place, where the maintenance is $900 a month and renovating will cost about $40,000, her monthly costs will be $1,500, "before taxes," she says.
Ms. Oefelein, who moved to New York seven years ago to attend graduate school in design at Parsons, says she loves it here and plans to stay. Not surprisingly, for a woman who seems to deal deftly with any problems, she won a green card in a lottery, so immigration has posed no hurdles.
"My name is Felicitas," she explains. "That means the lucky one."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Felicitas Oefelein, above, who has moved five times in the last seven years. Her latest home is a one-bedroom co-op at 3 Hanover Square in the Wall Street area, left, where workmen prepare the kitchen, below, of the apartment now under renovation. Carpenter, electrician and plumber at work in apartment. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); COTTON MARKETS (71%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH; OEFELEIN, FELICITAS KATHERINE KANE VACCARO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



564 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 18; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: In Fast Times, Who Has Time to Reflect?

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN 

 BODY:
THE brothers at Little Portion Friary in Mount Sinai offer the rare opportunity to be released from the demands of daily life, to relax and contemplate -- the chance, in effect, to lose time. And their guest house is usually full.
"It's my chance to get away, to take care of myself," said Susan Peverley, a librarian in Babylon who spends a few hours at the Friary almost every week. "I just make time," she said. 
 That's a statement, however, that much of the Long Island community of organized religions doesn't hear a lot. Many of the big churches say their membership is static or down, but worse, nobody seems to have time to attend services, or participate in activities, say ministers, priests and rabbis.
"Long Island is the land of the nominally committed," said David Benke, president of the Atlantic district of the Lutheran Church's Missouri Synod. "Everyone is on the roll somewhere, but on Sunday morning, they're doing something else."
It's not a crisis of belief On the larger cosmic issues, there's been little pot-stirring in America for the last three decades. Seven out of 10 Americans say they believe that something awaits when they have shuffled off the mortal coil; 5 out of 8 profess not even a smidgen of doubt about the existence of God. They even tell pollsters they are still showing up in church regularly.
Yet, when churches plan a fundraising event, they say they are hard pressed to find the volunteers to run it.
"If someone wants to have a street fair, they're likely to get more customers than ever," said Tom Goodhue, the executive director of the Long Island Council of Churches. "But it's harder to find someone to staff the booths."
"I don't know what happened to time, but something did," said Rosemary Sepanski, a financial planner and president of the Huntington League of Women Voters, one of the voluntary organizations that has felt the same kind of pinch for time as the churches. "In the mid 80's, we had 250 active members. Now we've got about 70."
What happened, then, to time? The clergy point to the way lives have become busier. So much competes for people's attention these days: longer hours at work, families with two earners, commuting, soccer games on Sunday mornings. That reality has set churches and synagogues on a search for previously unexplored time slots. Some hold communion services at 7 A.M. for commuters. The United Methodist Church of Bay Shore offers a midnight meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous every day of the week.
"What do you do with people that have to work on Sunday morning?" said the Rev. Betty Lines, pastor at the Bay Shore church. "Paul said you have to go where the people are. How can you do that when you're not amenable to people's schedules?"
Some churches and synagogues have sought alternative places, and even alternative media, for the message. Rabbi Jonathan Pearl of Congregation Beth Emeth in Hewlett holds walking services in a park. Redeemer Lutheran Church in Old Westbury features a "contemporary service" with pop music once a month.
Yet, while pastors of all faiths struggle to accommodate their increasingly distracted flocks, there's a nagging question about commitment. "If you want to do a Bible study, which the younger generation really wants, you must say it's a six-week study," said Ms. Lines. "They want to know there will be a new one starting soon, in case they couldn't come all the time in the first six weeks."
In fact, Long Islanders may have just as much time as ever. They just make different choices. "What if someone said I don't have time to go to the hairdresser, I have to be at services?" said Rabbi Pearl. "People would be shocked. It's usually the other way around. Of course we have the time, but we don't make the time to do it."
What has changed about time may be the way people evaluate it, say religious leaders. And what Long Islander isn't acutely aware of the connection between time and money, when so very much of it is needed to buy a house, to light a room, to pay a teacher's salary?
"There's a real tendency to recognize only those aspects of time that have a monetary value," said Msgr. Donald Beckman, pastor of Holy Name of Jesus Parish in Woodbury. "We judge, for example, whether the amount of time commuting is worth the amount of money we're making."
The coin of time has become, well, the coin. In the post-Marxist world of an ever-rising Dow and an ever-falling unemployment rate, everyone appears to be a convert to the civil religion of consumerism capitalism.
"People are going shopping rather than to Sunday school, and, to make ends meet, they take an extra job rather than go to worship services," said Mr. Goodhue of the Council of Churches. "The stock market has even invaded work time. For everyone at work and day trading, I think moments of introspection are pretty unlikely."
The American economy is a marvel, and everyone is a beneficiary. Right?
"People start thinking of their time as worth something, as money, and if you're not making money, you're getting behind," said Ms. Sepanski, the financial planner and League of Women Voters leader. "When I'm doing League work," she said, "I'm thinking I really should be doing my own work. "
Ah, there's the rub. Long Islanders may be so focused on their economic behavior that it has become the only thing they have time to do.
"We go through swings, from one extreme to the other, from liberal to conservative, from totally community oriented to the opposite," said Rabbi Pearl. "I hope we've seen the peak of 'it's-all-about-me.' "
In the hysteria of economic good fortune, Long Island's clergy see the signs of men and women searching to fill a void they still feel, and not necessarily in the traditional ways of churchgoing. The full guest house at the friary may be one such sign, the growth of Alcoholics Anonymous programs another.
"There's so much 12-step help around that if it's 2:14 on an afternoon and you want to go to a meeting, you can probably find one somewhere," said a Long Island member of Alcoholics Anonymous, who, heeding the group's rules, asked not to be identified.
Many big churches say that young parents have begun showing up at their doors in larger numbers, many looking for a welcoming congregation that's not the one in which they grew up. The Atlantic district of the Lutheran Church's Missouri Synod has seen its 30-year membership decline reversed for the last two years, said Mr. Benke.
"A lot of people felt mistreated by the tradition in which they grew up," said Mr. Goodhue, of the Council of Churches, "and they're on a quest, perhaps vague, for something different."
"The larger cultural phenomenon, the triumph of consumerism and materialism, has both captured whole nations and left a kind of emptiness," he said. The vicious cycle of consuming, working harder to make the money to support consumption -- "which leaves you too tired to go to the P.T.A., but not too tired to watch television," which then encourages more consumption -- has left many with an ache they cannot quite name, he added.
"I think people may be groping for that sense of community, of eternal value, of something beyond each of us," Rabbi Pearl said. "One of the things we forget to do is live our time. We're too busy trying to do."
"I find a lot of people have a vague sense that they need to get off the merry-go-round, perhaps even feel their lives would be richer if they could," said Monsignor Beckman. "But they don't know how to do it. They can't make the time to move away from time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Religious leaders say that most people have time to worship, but choose to do other things. Brother Clark Berge, above, left, and Brother James Edwards at the Little Portion Friary in Mount Sinai lead evening prayers. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE PORTION FRIARY (MOUNT SINAI, NY) LONG ISLAND COUNCIL (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: LITTLE PORTION FRIARY (MOUNT SINAI, NY) LONG ISLAND COUNCIL (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); FUNDRAISING (74%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); SOCCER (61%); 

PERSON: FESSENDEN, FORD JONATHAN PEARL (55%); TOM GOODHUE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



565 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Replacing 2 Tenements on East 23d;
An Art Deco-Style Rental Residence

 BODY:
Two rundown brick tenements on 23d Street between Second and Third Avenues are being bulldozed to make way for a 22-story rental apartment house.
When completed in 14 months the $20-million building, at 215 East 23d Street, will contain 74 one- and two-bedroom units, with 580 to 825 square feet of space. Levine Builders of Douglaston, Queens, is developing the project with R & M Gershon, a Manhattan-based real estate investment group. 
 Last December the partners bought the two four-story buildings as well as the air rights over two adjacent low-rise structures, enabling them to increase the height of the new rental by six stories from the 16 stories, allowed under the zoning. That, in turn, not only gave the project enough units to make it economically feasible, but provided it with light and air to make the apartments more attractive, said Mr. Levine. Summit Bank, in Cranford, N.J., is providing 75 percent of the financing for the project; the rest is coming from the partners' own money.
Mr. Levine said location was also on the side of the project since it is near the established residential neighborhoods of Chelsea to the west, Gramercy Park to the south and Murray Hill to the north. "This is a niche area that is seeing new housing construction," he added. Monthly rents in the building, which is to have 24-hour doormen, are expected to be $40 a square foot, or $1,800 to $2,400.
The project, to be known as Art Deco Tower, is being designed with a tan and beige brick facade that will have such Art Deco-style architectural touches as ornamental metal trim and masonry details. Architects Design Group, of Manhattan is the architect for the building. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LEVINE BUILDERS; GERSHON, R & M (CO) DESIGN GROUP INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEVINE BUILDERS; GERSHON, R & M (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



566 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 6; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Taking 'Angels in America' to Storrs

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
EVEN though "Angels in America," by Tony Kushner, startled the theater world, winning the Pulitzer Prize even before it opened on Broadway in 1993, it was not meant for Broadway.
In truth, the New York Shakespeare Festival's Public Theater was to have the play's New York premiere. But so hysterical was the buzz that preceded it, that producers and investors with deep pockets stepped in and, unlike "A Chorus Line," "Angels" was untimely ripped from its rightful birthplace by the lure of commercial success, which it did not have for all the hoopla. Opening first on Broadwaywas a morally and it turns out, even economically incorrect choice for "Angels." 
 It may be time for Connecticut theatergoers to discover "Angels in America, Part 1: Millennium Approaches," in a less showy way at the Connecticut Repertory Theater in Storrs from Oct. 7 through Oct. 17. It is not that the production staged by Leah C. Gardiner, a director in ascent, is to stint on production values.
It is simply that "Angels" encompasses both the intimate and the epic, and an emphasis on showiness, bravado and bluster -- the Broadway production was so emphasized, not to mention the hype and the street brouhaha -- throws it out of whack. As David Richards said in his review in The New York Times: "If you want the most out of Mr. Kushner's unfettered dramaturgy, it helps to think smaller, not bigger." And a 489-seat theater, the Harriet S. Jorgensen Theater on the University of Connecticut campus in Storrs, helps.
"Angels," which is subtitled "A Gay Fantasia On National Themes," takes place in 1985 as the AIDS plague was beginning to penetrate public consciousness, and it may be too forbidding for what has been called a conservative audience in Storrs.
The production is a test case and may determine whether Part II ("Perestroika") of Mr. Kushner's surreal stage piece mixing real characters (Ethel Rosenberg, Roy Cohn) with the fictitious, including an Orthodox rabbi, a drag queen and two New York couples in crisis (one Mormon and ostensibly heterosexual; the other, gay males: a WASP suffering from AIDS and his Jewish lover who leaves him).
Ms. Gardiner, saying that "Angels" is "a big risk and a smart move" for the theater, is interested in how the audience is going to deal with the play's graphic but not gratuitous scenes. "I opted not to pretend, or to keep secrets," she said in a telephone interview from her home in Middletown after a recent rehearsal. When two men kiss, for example, or there is a nude scene, it is possible for a director to soften the images or darken the stage as an offering of protection, one might say, but Ms. Gardiner said, "I feel it's all part of Tony's storytelling."
"Now that many people have been living with AIDS 10 years or more, it is still important to deal with the play's issues," Ms. Gardiner added. These include dysfunctional existences and relationships as well as denial, she said.
On an even bigger scale, Mr. Kushner is "pushing buttons," as Ms. Gardiner puts it. "Diversity, capitalism, the immigrant experience -- and the mental state of America, of which religion is a part," she added.
And she agreed that Mr. Kushner is taking a quantum leap to assimilation redefined. "Through it all, there is an element of hope," Ms. Gardiner said. Ms. Gardiner, 33, and married to a teacher of American history at Wesleyan University, comes to "Angels" with a preparation that is dazzlingly thorough and varied. In 1995, a year before she graduated from the Yale School of Drama, she was an assistant to George C. Wolfe, the Broadway director of "Angels" and head of the New York Shakespeare Festival.
The first show she worked on was "The Tempest," which moved from the Delacorte Theater in Central Park to Broadway. Then Ms. Gardiner served as associate director of Mr. Kushner's revised adaptation of the Talmudic fable "A Dybbuk," which was first seen at Hartford Stage Company. As an assistant director of the replacement cast of "Wit," Off Broadway, she "kicked in" as its director when Derek Anson Jones fell ill. The smashing reviews Judith Light received as replacement to Kathleen Chalfant (who played three roles in the original "Angels" ensemble), as hard an act to follow as one could imagine, is no small credit to Ms. Gardiner.
"Judith's courage and willingness and unending quest to grasp this thing called theater again, after television fame, to break through playing insularly, out of the close-up shot, and send the action to the back of the house, was amazing," Ms. Gardiner said.
The Connecticut Rep's "Angels" is employing two Equity actors; the rest in the cast of eight, except for one, are mostly graduate students playing multiple roles. "The energy, the essence of the work, the process, are what count here," Ms. Gardiner emphasized. "In New York all those other factors including pressure, money and reputation get in the way and there is less opportunity to have fun, they are so focused on the end product.
"Broadway is about being in the right place at the right time," Ms. Gardiner remarked, indirectly referring to the failure of Mr. Wolfe's production of the musical "On The Town" last season, on which she also worked. But regional theater, she added, is truer to the incomparable live experience.
"There is nothing like having people right there, responsively," she said. "That is so rich, and that is only theater."
But what about "Perestroika?"
"Whenever I'm asked," she said. "I feel incomplete."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leah C. Gardiner (Peter Morenus/UConn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ANGELS IN AMERICA, PART I: MILLENNIUM APPROACHES (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT REPERTORY THEATER NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT REPERTORY THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (93%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: GARDINER, LEAH C; KUSHNER, TONY; KLEIN, ALVIN TONY KUSHNER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



567 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Buyers Showing Interest in Millstone Plants

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
FOR sale: used nuclear plant. Frequently could not be started. Numerous fines for safety violations, but should pass inspection. Serious inquiries only.
For most of the last five years,the three nuclear power plants at Northeast Utilities' Millstone complex in Waterford have been in trouble with Federal regulators and were shut down in 1997 and 1998. They were the reason Northeast went from a financially solid company to posting losses of almost $220 million in the last two years. But when the company announced this month it would sell the plants, instead of buyers steering clear of the troubled units, utility companies began to line up.
"If anybody's interested in selling, we're definitely interested in buying, and Millstone is one of the plants that interests us," said Kelle J. Barfield, a spokeswoman for the Entergy Corporation, a New Orleans-based utility company. 
 "When the auction occurs, we will be there," echoed J. William Jones, a spokesman for the Peco Energy Company, the Philadelphia-based company that has teamed up with British Energy P.L.C. to form the Amergen Energy Company and has already bought four reactors around the Northeast, including one of the Three Mile Island reactors.
Utility analysts said the state's pending deregulation of the electric industry, and a strong market for energy in the Northeast, mean there should be strong interest in the Millstone plants by companies seeking to establish a foothold in the region.
"I'm sure there will be a lot of buyers looking at Millstone, because it is a nice cluster of plants and will allow for some local economies of scale, and one of the plants is large and relatively new, which will make it even more attractive," said Danielle M. Seitz of UBS Securities in New York. "I expect at least three or four serious bidders will show up."
Barry M. Abramson, senior utilities analyst with PaineWebber in New York, said the sale would be good for Connecticut.
""It will likely mean that the plants will continue to operate," he said. That not only means they continue to generate taxes and jobs, but they will continue to be a large local source of electrical power.
"And there will be another benefit as well -- I don't think Northeast has regained the confidence of the public and elected officials," Mr. Abramson said. "Companies with a better operational history are going to be more confident they can transfer that record of success to Millstone, which should get the plants back to business as usual a little more quickly."
Analysts said the more money Northeast can get for the plants, the less that will be passed on to customers. Because the company built the plants as a regulated utility, it is allowed to recoup most of its construction costs from its customers in their electric bills.
Beryl Lyons, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Public Utility Control, said she didnot expect that Northeast Utilities would get as much for its nuclear plants as it did for the conventional power plants that went to auction in July. The gas, oil and hydroelectric plants Northeast operates brought almost six times their book value; by contrast, nuclear plants generally have been bringing only 10 cents on the dollar, and Northeast officials have said they expect the Millstone plants, carried for $1.8 billion on the company's books, will bring no more than $200 million -- leaving customers to pay the rest.
"I don't know that they'll get above book value for the nuclear plants, but we will make sure they get as much as they can," Ms. Lyons said. The department will set a minimum bid for the plants next year.
Guy R. Mazza, the Connecticut Consumer Counsel who represents consumer interests in issues before the D.P.U.C., said customers would have paid those costs no matter who owns them, and if a larger company can come in and run the plants more efficiently, Connecticut consumers will have a reliable source of inexpensive power.
"This will definitely help the development of a competitive electric market in the future," Mr. Mazza said.
Northeast said in its filing with the D.P.U.C. that it would also seek a guarantee that the new owner will not fire or lay off any of Millstone's 2,000 employees for the first year and offer $3,000 in retraining costs and job counseling to anyone let go in the six-month period after that.
Bruce Kenyon, head of Northeast's electrical generation group, said he expected the plants could be sold as early as 2001, almost three years ahead of a legislative deadline for divestiture. As part of the state's plan for deregulation of the electric utility industry, existing utilities must auction off their power plants and split into two companies, one for power generation and the other for distribution. Included in the Northeast sale will be Millstone 1, which the company is now decommissioning. Millstone Three was restarted last year and Millstone Two in May.
"To be a successful nuclear operator in the coming deregulated environment, it would be necessary to buy and run several additional nuclear facilities to take advantage of economies of scale," Mr. Kenyon said. "Divestiture of these plants would best serve our customers, our shareholders and our Millstone employees."
But not everyone is thrilled with the prospects. James P. Riccio, a staff attorney for Critical Mass, an anti-nuclear group that is an arm of Public Citizen, the consumer group founded by Ralph Nader, said it was unfair that ratepayers suffered years of mismanagement of the Millstone plants and now would have to pick up the bills when another company comes buys the plants for a fraction of their book value.
"Who's really getting the benefit of this, then?" Mr. Riccio asked. "It's a sweetheart deal between two nuclear utilities, and the public is getting ripped off. It's a boondoggle on a royal scale."
And while Northeast's announcement means an end to speculation about the future of the plants, local officials were apprehensive, particularly because a fire sale of the nuclear plants means a major portion of the town's tax base could disappear.
"We've known they are going to auction, so we've been preparing for a worst-case scenario," said First Selectman Thomas A. Sheridan of Waterford. "The town is in excellent financial shape. We have a substantial surplus that will carry us forward, and we have no debt as of next year."
And under the deregulation legislation, Waterford will get a state grant equal to 90 percent of the difference between the old and new assessments the first year after divestiture, declining to 80 percent the next year, 70 percent the third, and so on for nine years.
When all three nuclear plants were operating, it was estimated they saved more than 25 million barrels of oil per year. But for much of the last few years all three plants have been out of service as the company addressed safety concerns raised by Federal regulators.
Ms. Seitz of UBS Securities said the scrutiny Millstone had received from Federal regulators over the last several years could increase interest in the plants. Several of the potential bidders, including Peco, have had teams at Millstone for the last couple of years helping them to recover from their safety problems.
"Those plants have better documentation than anyone in the industry, because everyone has gone through them so thoroughly," Ms. Seitz said.
"The companies that are probably going to be interested, they know those plants well, they know the area, and they know the people running them, which is going to make them more willing to make a bid," Ms. Seitz said. "That doesn't mean that they're going to be willing to pay a ton of money, of course, but in general, I think the outlook is generally pretty positive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Millstone nuclear complex, above (Steve Miller for The New York Times), is being put up for sale by Northeast Utilities. At left, a turbine in one of the plants. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (84%); NU (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST UTILITIES BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC (91%); ENTERGY CORP (84%); PECO ENERGY CO (69%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (58%); DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITY CONTROL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST UTILITIES DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITY CONTROL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WATERFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; MILLSTONE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (CONN); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (94%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



568 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In the Pulpit, Seeking to Relieve Suffering

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON

 BODY:
SOMETIMES the Rev. Dr. W. Franklyn Richardson, the fiery leader of the largest black church in Westchester, really preaches to himself from the podium and just allows his congregation to listen in. Such was the case a week ago, he conceded.
Standing on his toes and reaching toward the heavens on that last Sunday of the summer, Dr. Richardson drew his inspiration from Isaiah. "The morning cometh, and also the night," he called out from the pulpit at Grace Baptist Church here. "There are good days and bad ones, sunshine and rain. The good news is that the morning is coming." 
 While Isaiah's message undoubtedly had relevance for many attending the services, it was particularly meaningful for Dr. Richardson.
In a stinging defeat on Sept. 9, he lost the election for president of the largest black religious organization in the United States, in a vote at the annual meeting of the National Baptist Convention, U.S.A. (The convention's last elected president, the Rev. Henry Lyons, was sentenced in March to five and a half years in prison for stealing money from the organization.) But instead of voting as predicted, delegates at the recent meeting in Tampa elected the Rev. William Shaw of Philadelphia, edging out Dr. Richardson in a 3,694-to-3,451 vote.
Last week, after the two morning services at Grace Baptist with a standing-room-only crowd -- there were about 1,100 worshipers at each service -- the 50-year-old Dr. Richardson, a resident of Scarsdale, retreated to the well-appointed suite of offices he occupies on the second floor of the massive white brick church.
There, away from the public eye, he removed the colorful vestment he wears when he preaches, unbuttoned his shirt collar, ran a comb through hair that is just beginning to turn gray and lowered his burly frame onto a small couch.
"Yes, today's sermon was personal," he said.
On a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the highest, he rated the defeat as "a 6, and maybe even a 7."
"It was a significant setback," said Dr. Richardson, who was also defeated in a race for president in 1994. "And I don't understand it now, although I will in time." He had hoped to steer the convention away from infighting and power struggles and refocus it on the larger educational, economic, political and spiritual problems facing blacks in America.
In terms of losses he has experienced, he said the defeat in Tampa was second only to the death three and a half years ago of his brother Ron Richardson, who won a Tony Award in 1985 for his performance as Jim in the Broadway musical "Big River: the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn." The actor, who was 43, died of AIDS.
But Dr. Richardson, who has been the pastor of Grace for close to 25 years, explained that because he does not want to emphasize solely the disappointments and losses of life, he reached to Isaiah for the hopeful passage last Sunday. His goal was to remind himself and his congregation that balanced responses must be sought. "One must remember that you can't have a mountain without a valley," he said in his preacher's voice. "They live right next door to each other."
His goal, whether it is through the Baptist Convention or another organization, is to relieve the spiritual suffering of what he refers to as the black community. That often involves entering the fray not just through the church but in the political, economic and educational sectors as well, he said.
In Mount Vernon during the early 1990's, Dr. Richardson founded a political-educational group called the Coalition for the Empowerment of People of African Ancestry to oppose an all-white organization, the Italian Civic Association, which had dominated school board elections for as long as anyone could remember.
"We are trying to overcome an imbalance," Dr. Richardson said then. "We are not on a level playing field."
The son of a laborer in the meat-packing industry and a beautician who operated a beauty parlor out of the family's home in Philadelphia for 30 years, Dr. Richardson observed that the inequities of the past persist. He explained that historically "second-class" blacks have come to church for "first-class" affirmation so they could "deal with broken relationships, shattered marriages, racism, hum-drum existences, disappointments, not enough money, nonacceptance and sometimes jobs so bad that aren't worth having."
He continued: "Blacks are living tremendously below their capacities. They are not lazy or shiftless, but some people like to blame the victim. The truth is that there's a spiritual crisis in our communities."
He spoke of violence and drugs and families in distress, explaining that the church, above all other institutions, has the capacity to lift up people. He viewed the role of the National Baptist Convention, which is based in Nashville, as "putting the nation on notice that its 8.5 million members are a force to be reckoned with."
The convention was organized in 1880, when it broke with the white Baptist church; in 1915, it was incorporated as a separate entity. It now has more than 33,000 member churches and is the third-largest Protestant denomination in the United States. Its officials say it is the largest black organization in the world.
As Dr. Richardson has said, "It's time the largest black organization has a large presence."
Last week, the question most on his mind was whether to wait five years until the next election to enact his agenda of empowering blacks through the church -- specifically the Baptist Convention -- or to find expression elsewhere.
"The issue haunts me," he conceded. "What do I do about it? I didn't run for a title, but I did see an opportunity to do something positive."
Paradoxically, the one to whom others come for answers now finds himself struggling alone when searching for answers. "I am at a strange place in my life," he said.
Dr. Richardson sometimes consults with his wife, Inez, his closest friend for almost 30 years. (They have a son, the Rev. W. Franklyn Richardson 3d, and a daughter, Orchid Richardson-Burnside, who is a commercial real estate agent.)
Occasionally, he turns to a few trusted friends, whom he chose not to identify. But whatever his agenda is to become on a national scale, he said he would not leave his congregation in Mount Vernon where people like Ruth P. Anderson, 92, call Dr. Richardson "my sweetheart," and Nadine Bent, a computer engineer and the mother of 6-year-old Baqiyyal Muhammad, said she feels "at home and nourished in a loving environment."
Dr. Richardson said: "Everyone can come here. We create a warm space where the doctors and the domestics, the Ph.D.'s and those with no education can leave their titles and positions outside the door."
The church, where the collection plates fill to overflowing on Sundays, began in 1888 under the direction of five black women, former slaves, who organized the Grace Baptist Mission.
The initial prayer meeting was held in what was known as Willard Hall, now the site of the Levister Towers public housing development. At the turn of the century, Grace erected a frame church on Eighth Avenue; it burned in 1939. Grace now occupies a former PresbyterianChurch at 52 South Sixth Avenue, which it bought after the 1939 fire and renovated and expanded. The church draws about half its members from outside Mount Vernon. Dr. Richardson said it is outgrowing its quarters.
Today the church has 11 ministers including associate ministers, a music minister and a minister for health and wholeness. Dr. Richardson, who came to the church when he was a student, has since earned a bachelor's degree from Virginia Union University in Richmond, a master's degree from Yale University School of Divinity and a doctorate from United Theological Seminary in Dayton, Ohio.
Under his ministry, he established "The Grace Hour," a radio ministry, which has quadrupled the church's membership and brought in advertising revenue. Also under his leadership, the church completed a $4.2 million restoration and expansion project and built Grace House, an $11 million, 100-unit housing complex for the elderly.
In addition to being a member of the National Baptist Convention, Dr. Richardson is a board member of the Congress of National Black Churches, a trustee of the National Urban League, a former member of the central committee of the World Council of Churches and a former chairman of the National Council of Churches.
Although he says he is at a personal crossroads in his life, he has little patience for self-pity. "Good morning, Grace," Dr. Richardson said buoyantly to the congregation at the start of last Sunday's service. "We do our best and go on. Let's move forward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Dr. W. Franklyn Richardson of Grace Baptist Church in Mount Vernon, above, says that when he preaches he is often preaching to himself. Last Sunday the congregation showed it's enthusiasm for their pastor and for the choir, and some of the children attending the service came up to the altar. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BAPTIST CHURCHES GRACE BAPTIST CHURCH (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAPTIST CHURCHES

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); MOUNT VERNON (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); SENTENCING (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (61%); THEATER & DRAMA (61%); CELEBRITIES (61%); MUSICAL THEATER (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, W FRANKLYN (REV DR); BRENNER, ELSA WILLIAM SHAW (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



569 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 13; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Longer Classroom Periods Test Tradition

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM 

 BODY:
AFTER 90 uninterrupted minutes of a pre-calculus class, Helaina Winnicki, 17, says her brain "starts turning into mush." And a 90-minute gym class -- with no shower afterward -- is "really disgusting."
But longer classes are not always a bad thing, Helaina said, because 90 minutes of English or economics and government allow students more time for meaty discussions before they pack up for the next class. 
 Helaina, a senior at Lincoln High School in Yonkers, is among the 11,000 students at the district's public middle schools and high schools adjusting to "block scheduling," which began this fall. Traditional 43-minute class periods ended this school year when Dr. Andre Hornsby, Superintendent of the Yonkers School District, replaced them with four 90-minute periods a day.
The block scheduling has been a central issue in negotiations over a new contract for teachers. Steven Frey, president of the teachers' union, said teachers did not know about the planned schedule changes until shortly before school started this month and have not had time to prepare for major changes in their approach to teaching, which is required by the longer classes.
"We are opposed to this on such short notice," Mr. Frey said. "There are a lot of versions of block scheduling, and this is the worst one. It might have some merit if there was sufficient lead time to learn how to deal with this."
Yonkers administrators said that teachers knew at the end of the school year that the change was coming and why. .
"It increases uninterrupted instructional time," said Ray Willis, assistant superintendent for communications. "It's widely heralded and accepted around the country. There are some challenges and kinks, but we feel it is far superior to traditional scheduling."
Block scheduling has become increasingly popular at American schools, with its emphasis on more time spent in fewer classes. Robert Lynn Canady and Michael D. Rettig, former teachers and authors who are proponents of block scheduling, estimate that more than 50 percent of high schools in the United States use some extended class periods.
In their manual, "Teaching in the Block" (Eye on Education), Mr. Canady of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville and Mr. Rettig of James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va.,, who are professors of education, argue that traditional 40-minute periods worsen discipline problems, limit teachers' possibilities and create a "factory-like environment" with assembly-line classes.
State education officials in New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey do not keep figures on the number of schools with block scheduling, but all said the system is becoming increasingly widespread.
"Anecdotally, it seems that a larger and larger number of school districts are using it," said William Hirschen, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Education. The appeal seems to be that it lends itself to more innovation and flexibility in teaching, he said.
Ken Tobin, who is the University of Pennsylvania's director of teacher education and a professor of science education, said, "There are advantages, if the students and teachers know how to take advantage of the time. You have to manage the activities. You have to make sure that the lessons are varied."
When Mr. Tobin and a colleague taught a 75-minute course last year at University City High School in Philadelphia, they found that they needed about five activities in each class to hold the students' attention. Because teachers must plan a more varied classroom experience, Mr. Tobin said it was essential that the school support the plan.
"It's not going to work if it's a top-down kind of thing," he said. "Teachers need to feel that they can make it work and that there's flexibility."
In Westchester, Dr. Jerry Cicchelli, Superintendent of the Greenburgh schools, is a proponent of block scheduling, which is being used for the second year in Greenburgh's middle schools and high schools.
"This schedule can empower teachers to do certain things that you cannot do in 43 minutes," he said. "It empowers teachers to be more innovative and creative."
At Woodlands High School in Hartsdale, part of the Greenburgh district, students have six periods a day and have the same schedule every other day. The day is broken into three 80-minute blocks and three 40-minute blocks. Students can "more deeply and thoroughly get into subject areas," Paul Gross, the school's principal, said.
The district administration and Woodlands began studying block scheduling in the 1993-94 school year. Last year, before the block scheduling started, teachers attended a three-day staff development program to plan the transition from 40-minute to 80-minute classes. Woodlands High has a committee of students, teachers and administrators, which meets once a month to discuss how the process is working.
So far, the passing rate for students has gone up slightly, from 85 percent to 87 percent, Mr. Gross said, and there has been "a dramatic decrease in disciplinary issues" because students spend less time in the halls.
Dr. Christine Casey, who was assistant superintendent in the Greenburgh district for nine years before moving this fall to the Stamford school district, said most districts in Westchester have a form of block scheduling and she thinks it is a positive move: "I think that anything that gives you flexibility and time enhances education."
But Ms. Casey said teacher support was the key, because the longer periods transformed the structure of a class for the teachers.
"In Greenburgh, it was the staff that really wanted it," she said. "It needs to come from the teachers. It really means you have to teach differently."
Kate Sammon, a high school English teacher in the Pennsbury school district in Bucks County, Pa., said the extra time had liberated her to teach literature in a new way.
For example, the day she introduced William Golding's "Lord of the Flies," the novel of schoolchildren fending for themselves on an island, students came into Ms. Sammon's room to find a series of instructions on the board. They were to locate hidden pieces of candy, look up vocabulary words and rearrange the furniture in the classroom. They had 15 minutes to accomplish the tasks as a group. When the time was up, they discussed how the experiment in adult-free interaction had fared: how taller students helped shorter students reach the candy and how leaders soon came forward. They talked about their willingness to trust one another. The issues that emerged in their experiment were the same ones that were pivotal in the novel.
"I can do things that are outside of reading the literature," said Ms. Sammon, who is starting her second year of teaching. "It gives us time to discuss more and allows more creative teaching."
At Pennsbury High School, which has 1,650 11th and 12th graders, block scheduling started four years ago with the day divided into four blocks. Students take eight classes a year, four each semester. Classes run 87 to 92 minutes, said William Katz, the principal, who graduated from the school in 1967.
"We were pretty much doing things the way we'd always done them," Mr. Katz said. Many teachers were comfortable in the 40-minute classes, he said, but the administration felt "we had to evolve." The longer classes allow students in art and environmental studies to go outside, permits students to do research and work in groups during classes and make classes more than just a lecture, he said. "They've got to have research skills and they've got to problem solve. By doing that, they remember much more."
Pennsbury teachers spent a year preparing to go to block scheduling, Mr. Katz said. Some teachers retired rather than make the change, but most were excited about trying new approaches.
"You can prepare on paper and in groups, but when you actually do it, it's different," he said.
Sometimes teacher opposition has been a factor in schools deciding not to try block scheduling.
Cherry Hill East, a southern New Jersey high school of 1,780 students with some of the area's highest Scholastic Achievement Test scores, has stayed with the eight-period day, even though teachers and administrators have looked into the longer block classes.
Teachers did not want to make the change, said Margaret Regan, a psychology teacher who has taught in the high school for 15 years. "You need a faculty who is enthusiastic about it," she said. "I feel that if you could have it one day a week, it would be great."
Attention span of the students is the biggest problem, she said. "With a lot of them, at the end of 42 minutes, you're kind of losing them."
Mary Ellen Winnicki, mother of Helaina and president of the Yonkers Parent-Teacher Association, does not object to the concept of block scheduling for her daughter or the district, but she said it needs time to be studied and phased into the district.
"Block scheduling is useful if it is planned thoroughly and implemented slowly," she said. "But there was no sitting down or shared discussion in this decision. You heard rumors, but you didn't know."
Her daughter received her schedule the first day of school instead of getting it by mail ahead of time, she said. "You had mass scheduling problems in all the high schools," she said. "It was atrocious."
Mr. Willis said the schools are going through an adjustment period that they would have had with any change.
While administrators trying block scheduling are positive about it now, they are still watching it to see if they get the performance improvements in passing rates and test scores that they hope to see. "The true test is over time," Mr. Gross of Woodlands High School said. "This is Year 2 and we're pretty comfortable that we're moving in the right direction."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leesa Zissu teaches an advanced placement Spanish class as part of the block scheduling program at Woodlands High School in Hartsdale. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WOODLANDS HIGH SCHOOL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODLANDS HIGH SCHOOL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WORKING HOURS TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: NUSSBAUM, DEBRA KEN TOBIN (70%); HELAINA WINNICKI (68%); MICHAEL D RETTIG (56%); STEVEN FREY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



570 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2625 words

HEADLINE: Shortages Are Slowing Construction Of Homes

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
FROM the pipes in the trenches to the trusses for the roof, from the panels for the walls to the insulation between the beams -- and, just as acutely, in the search for skilled workers to hammer it all together -- home builders in New York City and its suburbs are struggling with shortages of supplies and labor.
In coping with the scarcities, the builders find themselves engaged in frenetic juggling acts that have consequences for their profit margins and for homebuyers' budgets. 
 Squeezed by bottlenecks for one material, then another, developers are realizing just where they rank in their suppliers' pecking orders, their allocation for a particular product dependent on how much they bought last year -- a serious circumstance for the little guy. Stymied by delivery delays, some find themselves staring at foundations without frames, frames without walls. Others turn to alternative materials or methods.
"Absolutely, I've got war stories," said Jeffrey Levine, president of Levine Builders, a Queens-based corporation that has built about 3,000 housing units over the last 20 years.
Shaft walls for three elevators in a 240-unit co-op building going up at 95th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan were supposed to be lined with fire-resistant coreboard, Mr. Levine said, "but due to its lack of availability, time constraints dictated that we make a change."
Masons will now have to build brick firewalls, Mr. Levine said -- at a not inconsiderable extra expense.
"The masonry costs about $2.50 more per square foot than the coreboard," Mr. Levine said. "The elevator is 10 by 10, and it's 10 feet from floor to floor, so that's 400 square feet per floor. At $2.50 extra a foot, that would be $1,000 per floor for each elevator." There are three elevators in the 11-story building, or 33 times $1,000, for a total added cost of $33,000.
In the suburbs, according to one estimate, increases in the cost of lumber can add $4,000 to the price of a typical home and $10,000 to a luxury residence.
Some developers pass along those extra costs to the homebuyers. But, said Mr. Levine, "depending on the circumstances of the contractual agreements, if it's a fixed-price contract I bear the burden."
What the developers cannot avoid passing along are the delays in completion dates -- postponements that have sent buyers packing for motel stays or to the homes of relatives.
Joe Mutinsky is president of the New Jersey division of Centex Homes, a company that last year built 15,000 houses around the country. "When I moved from Florida to New Jersey in 1985," Mr. Mutinsky said, "the home-building market was very active. And, at that time, the same types of delays were occurring" -- including for the home Mr. Mutinsky had ordered.
"I ended up in a hotel with my children and a dog," he said, "and here I am almost 15 years later, causing that same problem to my homeowners. I never wanted to do that."
Mr. Mutinsky estimates that the panoply of delays he faces these days has pushed back completion dates on his projects by at least three months.
At Island Estates at Shoreham in Suffolk County, where 140 houses are pushing toward completion, the builders are also feeling the squeeze.
"We had one supplier say, 'O.K., I'll give you Sheetrock if you buy lumber from me,' " said Lennard Axinn, a partner in Island Estates. "We were desperate. It was a different form of ransom."
"There certainly are houses delayed by the shortages," Mr. Axinn said. "That has an impact when the homeowners are counting on moving in by a certain date, getting the kids into school. Of course, they were screaming at us."
Not that the builders require an excess of sympathy, since their problems are the product of a booming, profitable housing market.
"We're operating at sales levels that are, basically, records," said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. There were 886,000 new homes sold in the country last year, "an all-time high," Mr. Seiders said. The previous record was 819,000 in 1977.
And through July of this year alone, 577,000 new homes were sold, Mr. Seiders said. "Compared to the first seven months of last year, that's an increase of 6 percent," he said. "So it was a record year last year, and the first seven months this year we ran above last year's pace -- that's red hot."
Demand, as usual, is reflected by prices. In New Jersey, for example, said Patrick O'Keefe, executive vice president of that state's Builders' Association, "prices are surging."
"I can tell you that the average price of a new home in New Jersey is about $250,000, up more than 10 percent from a year ago," Mr. O'Keefe said. "It's attributable to the robust demand, and constrained supplies."
The lack of supplies and labor, said Mr. Seiders, "tops the problem list for builders at the moment."
ACCORDING to a survey of 400 members of the association, 72 percent nationally and 77 percent in the Northeast -- the nine states from Pennsylvania through New England -- said they were experiencing shortages of materials. Asked about labor, 75 percent, both nationally and in the Northeast, said they were experiencing shortages.
The builders' concerns about supplies surpassed, even, their reaction to the fact that the Federal Reserve has twice raised interest rates in recent months.
Saying that he did not want to sound like "a cheerleader for a slowdown," Mr. Seiders pointed out that "usually when the Fed is in a tightening mode, that's enough to throw the builders into a state of panic." However, he said, builders are "pretty sanguine about that right now."
"This is supposed to be the most interest-sensitive sector of the economy," he said. "So, obviously, when the Fed has tightened policy a couple of times, they really do want this sector to lose some steam. But the builders are not carrying on about the tightening. It's hard to operate in a market where you have trouble getting decent workers and things like gypsum wallboard. So a rebalancing of supply and demand in this market would not be a bad thing."
Still, for those in the trenches of the building business, keeping their balance can require a juggler's touch.
"Now you've got me going," said Mr. Mutinsky of Centex Homes in New Jersey when asked about the pitfalls of the current construction cycle.
"Right now, in developing the land, we have a problem getting ductile iron water main," Mr. Mutinsky said. "That has added a three-week delay. And once the water main comes in, the subcontractor doesn't have the manpower to make up that three weeks' difference."
"We also have a problem with the availability of PVC pipe," he continued, referring to sanitary sewer pipe made from polyvinylchloride. "We have just been informed that the prices are going up; they won't tell us how much and there may be a shortage. This is what they're telling me."
As for the actual construction of the home, Mr. Mutinsky said: "In the permit process, municipalities in New Jersey have 20 days to review and comment on and/or approve your plans. But they're so swamped with applications and no manpower to handle them that on the 19th day you get an additional list of deficiencies from the municipality. It's either a true deficiency or a delaying tactic to give them more time to review the application." That alone, Mr. Mutinsky said, adds a month's delay.
"Now, framing the house," he said. "I have an additional one-month delay receiving the pre-manufactured panels and trusses -- these are the wooden floor and wall panels and what holds up the roof. Again, because of the demand, we wait an additional month for the delivery of those. And again, the framer does not have the additional crews to make up that lost time."
Another product Mr. Mutinsky said he was having trouble getting is called R-30 Batt -- fiberglass insulation with a paper backing that goes between the studs. "We are experiencing allocations in the Northeast corridor," he said, "and that adds another two weeks."
But, by far, the greatest shortage confounding the industry is of gypsum wallboard -- otherwise known as coreboard, drywall or by its trademarked name, Sheetrock. "We used to be able to get it in two days," Mr. Mutinsky said, "but due to the allocations, it's now up to almost 14 days."
The delays are not sequential, but overlap.
"When we go to contract with a customer," Mr. Mutinsky said, "we used to anticipate a six-month delivery of that home. But because of all of the above, we now state anywhere between eight to 10 months out. That's an average of an additional three and a half months."
It is not for lack of trying that the wallboard industry has not filled all of its orders, said Pam Kassner, spokeswoman for the USG (G for gypsum) Corporation, the nation's largest manufacturer of wallboard. "The industry and USG, we've been running 24 hours a day since last summer," Ms. Kassner said. "The demand is at record levels." Last year, the industry produced 28 billion square feet, and expects to exceed 30 billion this year, Ms. Kassner said.
"We're shipping, but it's never enough," she said.
Moreover, the price has gone up. The cost to a distributor for 1,000 square feet of wallboard was $149 at the end of July, 17 percent higher than the year before.
"It will get better toward the end of the year," Ms. Kassner said. "We have new plants from us and our competitors coming on line." But demand, she said, will not dip. "We think it's going to be just as strong in 2000 as in '99, and the repair and remodel market is growing gangbusters." Potent, too, is the office market, which also uses wallboard.
The supply-price equation for lumber is also vexing for builders, though more difficult to quantify because lumber is much more of an international commodity, subject to the vagaries of many a national market. In some parts of this country, builders are befuddled by price fluctuations; in others, they are hamstrung by actual shortages.
DESPITE the strong demand for new homes, lumber prices in the United States actually slackened somewhat last year, primarily because profound weaknesses in Asian economies undercut the demand in those nations -- particularly Japan.
"So we were able to consume a huge amount of lumber at pretty attractive prices last year," said Mr. Seiders. "But then prices spiked up from last year's low."
The average price for 1,000 board feet of lumber was $349 in 1998. By mid-July of this year, it had bounded up to $490.
In Connecticut, according to Joanne Carroll, president of JMC Resources, a housing research firm, lumber costs for a typical 2,000-square-foot home have risen by about $4,000 since last year. For a trophy house in a swank Connecticut suburb, the price of lumber spiraled up by about $10,000, she said.
At the lower end, said Norton Wheeler, the lumber buyer for United Builders' Supply in Waterford and Niantic, Conn., "a sharp rise in lumber costs could knock a first-time buyer out of the box."
In the last two months, however, the average national lumber price has slipped back to $390 per 1,000 board feet -- still considerably above last year's mark. "Lumber prices are very volatile," Mr. Seiders said, "a lot of ups and downs, a lot of speculation. Usually when you talk about shortages, the symptom is high prices, but you can still get it."
Not everybody.
"I've got 12 houses out here in East Windsor," Mr. Mutinsky said of one of his projects in New Jersey. "I had to wait 10 weeks for delivery of the wall panels when the normal delivery is five. If I can't put lumber on a foundation, it sits."
At least it has something to sit on.
"The amount of approved, developable land is dwindling rapidly," Mr. O'Keefe of the New Jersey Builders Association said, "and, consequently, we may see a trailing off in production in 2000."
To meet incessant demand, some builders are turning to commercial or industrial sites that can be rezoned for residential use, or to previously ignored parcels passed over because they were too difficult to build on. For example, Brian Stolar, president of Pinnacle Communities of Millburn, said his company was buying a 35-acre site on a hilltop in Wayne, N.J.
Scarce land coupled with high demand can be costly. John Udell, president of Weichert New Homes, a land broker, estimates that land today constitutes 35 to 40 percent of the cost of a new home, compared with 30 percent just a few years ago.
But, even assuming that all the land and all the supplies can be acquired according to a reasonably coordinated schedule, there's no telling whether the developer will be able to hire workers capable of doing the pipe-fitting, the cementing, the wiring, the sawing, the hammering.
"Almost worse than these material problems are the labor problems," said Mr. Axinn of Island Estates in Suffolk County. "It's been sort of a balancing act so we aren't getting creamed."
Normally, 80 percent of Mr. Axinn's workers do the basic building and 20 percent perform what he calls customer service, like touching up paint and fine trim work after the house is up. "We've had to reallocate those resources so that people in customer service can help complete the homes," Mr. Axinn said.
Mr. Mutinsky said that when he first came to the New York area in 1985, hard times had hit the Sunbelt states, "and the skilled labor from down there came north, so that all these Texas license plates showed up on the sites here."
During the recession of the late 80's and early 90's, however, many small- to medium-sized builders went out of business in the New York area. "Thus, the license plates went back to Texas," he said.
Residential developers have also been losing workers to the booming commercial segment of the building industry, said Mr. Seiders of the national home builder's association -- adding, somewhat sheepishly: "Right now, in fact, we're adding four stories and a wing to our headquarters building here in Washington, near the White House, and the contractor is luring workers from the residential area."
In the view of Carl Goldberg, a partner in the Roseland Property Company of Roseland, N.J., which builds about 1,500 homes a year in the region, the industry must do more to expand the labor force.
"Over the last 19 months, the scarcity of qualified workers has become a crisis," Mr. Goldberg said. "It's not only a problem in numbers, but also because people haven't had full training."
CITING the lack of trim contractors -- those carpenters who do the fine finish work -- Mr. Goldberg said, "I often hear people saying these days, 'Gee, they don't do things like that anymore.' "
Fewer and fewer students are choosing to go to vocational school, Mr. Goldberg pointed out, and trade union apprenticeship programs are running at about about 60 percent of capacity. The industry needs to create outreach programs and provide scholarships to entice young people into trade schools, he said.
"We need to communicate that there are opportunities in being a licensed electrician or a licensed plumber, financial opportunities," Mr. Goldberg said. Take, for example, a carpenter, he said: "Four or five years ago, a carpenter would make $16, $17 an hour. Now, most of the time, it's upwards of $25 an hour."
To be sure, residential development is a profitable enterprise these days. Still, all the crunching and juggling has taken its toll on builders.
"You learn how not to lose sleep," Mr. Mutinsky said, "but it does bother you when you come to work in the morning. It's frustrating."
And as Marshall Davis, president of Carlton Construction in New City, N.Y., put it, "Yes, we are pulling our hair out."
"Business is good," Mr. Davis said, "but it's not a fun job anymore."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Because of a shortage of fire-resistant coreboard, elevator shafts in 240-unit co-op Jeffrey Levine is putting up at 95th Street and Second Avenue will have brick firewalls, at extra expense. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) Joe Mutinksy of Centex Homes said that shortages have led to delays in completing projects. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Marshall Davis of Carlton Construction, left, says job is no longer fun. Joyce (Dopkeen/The New York Times) Lennard Axinn of Island Estates stockpiles Sheetrock on Long Island. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SHORTAGES; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); CITIES (72%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS JEFFREY LEVINE (78%); DAVID SEIDERS (70%); JOE MUTINSKY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



571 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 11; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Hoping Ball Parks Succeed In Speeding Urban Revival

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, baseball purists were lamenting the disappearance of minor league baseball. Major league expansion, the explosion of cable television, the rise in popularity of football and the ponderous slowness of the game were all seemingly good reasons why minor league ball should wither away.
But in the 1990's, minor league baseball has become a growth industry in New Jersey, especially in its cities, which -- drawing on the successful examples of Cleveland, Baltimore and other major centers -- have viewed new stadiums and the ball teams inhabiting them as instruments to revive languishing downtowns. 
 Factories, banks, stores and offices may have fled Newark, Trenton, Atlantic City and Camden, leaving them with blighted streets and reputations, but those cities have either built baseball stadiums or have one in the works and, in some cases, indoor arenas as well. And the city fathers view such places as the introduction to exciting new futures for their downtrodden downtowns.
"We've just finished our fifth season and the numbers of people who have come continue to grow," said Mercer County Executive Robert D. Prunetti, referring to the Trenton Thunder. "It is not a novelty whose popularity has declined." This summer the Thunder won 90 games for the second straight season at Waterfront Park, set on the Delaware River south of downtown Trenton. "The numbers are way beyond our expectations, Mr. Prunetti said, "but the most significant thing is that it has changed the perception of what Trenton is."
Most summer nights the Thunder are playing there, nearly all of Waterfront Park's 6,500 seats are filled. Few of the Thunder, a Boston Red Sox farm team, at Class AA two levels below the big club, will ever make the big leagues. But thousands have paid from $4 to $8 a ticket to see them play anyway. Mr. Prunetti said that with tickets, parking, souvenirs and ancillary spending, his office estimates that the team has pumped $12 million to $16 million a year into Trenton's economy, which more than justifies the $17.5 million the county, with some state help, spent on Waterfront Park.
The Sandcastle, where the Atlantic League Atlantic City Surf, an unaffiliated team, play their games, was an even less expensive proposition. The three-year-old stadium next to the old Bader Field Airport in the Chelsea Heights section was built for $14.5 million, much of which came from the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, the state agency charged with funneling casino revenue to worthwhile projects.
"It's brought diverse entertainment for youngsters here and for other people who want an alternative to casinos," said Stuart Wiser, Atlantic City's director of redevelopment. "If nothing else happened there but baseball, we'd be pleased." But Mr. Wiser is looking for more. Bader Field is scheduled to be phased out for use as an airport next year, and Mr. Wiser said an ice-skating complex is in the planning stages for the site. He wants to utilize the stadium for concerts and other athletic events and hopes restaurants and shops will follow the fans out to the neighborhood as well.
Newark and Camden are also dreaming big dreams surrounding stadiums. In Newark, Riverfront Park, familiarly known as the Den, was completed on Bridge Street off Interstate 280 this summer. It is home to the Newark Bears, who play with two other New Jersey teams -- Atlantic City's Surf and the Somerset Patriots of Bridgewater -- in the Atlantic League, which is unaffiliated with the majors; essentially, that means the players have even less of a chance of ever making the big leagues than those from the Trenton Thunder.
Still, fans have flocked to the 6,014-seat Den near the Broad Street train station. More than 1,200 season tickets were sold for its first season at the $22 million park. The team's president is Rick Cerrone, the former Yankee cather, who greets many of the fans, something his old boss, George Steinbrenner, would presumably not ever do on a bet.
Betting in Newark is that there will also be a new arena downtown early in the next decade. Lewis Katz, one of the new owners of the New Jersey Nets procfessional basketball team, favors building an arena there rather than refurbishing the Nets' current home, the Continental Arena in the decidedly non-urban Meadowlands. Mr. Katz has pledged that a portion of his profits will go to inner-city projects, particularly in Newark and Camden, and he has said a downtown Newark arena would go far to helping realize his dream of a revived downtown in Newark.
Camden, too, wants to put a stadium along its Delaware River waterfront as part of its growing entertainment complex there, which already includes the New Jersey State Aquarium and the Blockbuster-Sony Music Entertainment Center. Negotiations started earlier this year with the developers Kravco Company, of King of Prussia, Pa., to build a $100 million sports complex on a 30-acre parcel between the aquarium and the Benjamin Franklin Bridge. Camden's Mayor, Milton Milan, has said the project will include five or six buildings, including the stadium, a skating rink, a sports bar and sporting goods stores.
Mr. Prunetti, the Mercer County Executive, said all this sports development was fine so long it was kept in mind that the ultimate beneficiaries were supposed to be the residents of those cities.
"Without some integration and synergy with the surrounding neighborhoods trying to rebuild, I don't know how beneficial any of this is," said Mr. Prunetti. "Location is very important, but you can't just build a stadium. You have to look at the blocks of old buildings nearby and have a plan to improve that area as well."
Mr. Prunetti said Trenton had set up improvement districts for businesses and programs to invest in improving homes near Waterfront Park. He cited a plan that would supply low-interest loans for residents to buy the homes they rented in or ones nearby.
He said that the same programs would go on near the $60 million, 10,500-seat Sovereign Bank Arena, which will be completed next month in Trenton near the old Roebling industrial complex. The arena will be home to teams in the minor league International Basketball League and East Coast Hockey League. In addition, the Philadelphia Kixx indoor soccer team will play a few games there. It will open Friday with a World Wrestling Federation exhibition.
"Trenton had been a steel and pottery and rubber town, and the factories have long since left Trenton," said Mr. Prunetti. "The city leaders prior to this administration, their strategy was to bring industry back, and that just wasn't going to happen. As we saw it, tourism, sports and entertainment were going to be it. For a while it was just government here. Now there is government in the daytime, sports in the evening and the historical sites on the weekends. And you've got to think other good things will follow."
"Look, when the people who wanted to start a baseball team came to me, they said they wanted to put a stadium in West Windsor, where it was, to them, nice and safe," he said. 'I told them we didn't want it there. They said, 'Why? It will be successful.' I said, 'Yes, I know it will. But it won't energize the economy at all.' What we have now is great. I wish the other New Jersey cities the same fortune."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seeing big-league stadiums rise in downtowns, New Jersey cities hope minor league stadiums will spark renewal. Preparing the Sandcastle in Atlantic City, left (Associated Press), in its first season and Riverfront Park in Newark, which opened this year. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS; URBAN AREAS BASEBALL (95%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CITIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); CHILDREN (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); COUNTIES (67%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT TRENTON THUNDER (93%); NEWARK BEARS (67%); STUART WISER (57%); ROBERT D PRUNETTI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



572 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2878 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Cities: Sad Urban Presence Encircled by Wealth

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
IN the heart of Newark, people are moving into three new housing developments -- subdivisions, really -- that recently sold out. Paterson is the new home of four companies that relocated from New York. In Trenton, construction on a hotel is to start before winter.
Facts like those are barely worth noting in any suburb with a highway cloverleaf. But in the cities known as the Big Six -- Newark, Jersey City, Paterson, Elizabeth, Trenton and Camden -- the smallest stirrings of new life draw attention. 
 Seen in one light, urban revival is positively vigorous. Manhattan has exported thousands of jobs to what was a broken-down industrial belt across the Hudson. Four of the Big Six have begun to register population gains, which is more than Boston or Philadelphia have managed. Last year, the state's leaders in construction activity were Jersey City, Elizabeth, Newark and Rahway. Indeed, one site in Jersey City sold for $10 million an acre.
But from another perspective, the Big Six are just bleeding more slowly than they used to. Their combined population was halved from 1930 to 1970, and more economic devastation would follow: since 1975, Camden has lost one in three jobs, Newark one in four. Except for Jersey City, all of the Big Six have lost jobs even since 1995. All are on life support from a reluctant and often exasperated state government.
The question is obvious: Why can't New Jersey support cities?
After all, New Jersey is a wealthy state, second only to Connecticut in income, and the most densely populated in the nation. Yet the cities are small -- Newark, the largest, has 267,823 people, and the smallest of the Big Six, Camden, has only 83,546 -- and their residents' income is about half the state average.
Benjamin Franklin, Philadelphian and cosmopolitan, described New Jersey as a "barrel tapped at both ends," and many urban experts still say New Jersey has two important cities, which happen to be in other states.
James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said New Jersey's cities had always been stunted by the mere existence of New York and Philadelphia. "Those two cities drew the allegiance of the elite of New Jersey," Mr. Hughes said, and even now those two keep a lock on media and major league sports.
But there is more. It has to do with New Jersey's historical and geographic accidents, its dependence on property taxes and its tradition of fragmented local governments, known as home rule, which makes each city just one among 567. Then, too, there is the nation's relentless exurbanization, fed by yearnings for what Mr. Hughes calls "McMansions" and "suburban assault vehicles" -- and a way of life not offered in Camden or Elizabeth.
The cities' survival "is not just a matter of more state revenue," said Stephen A. Salmore, a political scientist recently retired from Rutgers and the co-author of "Politics and Government in New Jersey: Suburban Politics Comes of Age." "It's a matter of economic development. The state has not been successful in attracting business. The market does that, and at this point the market is not interested in setting up businesses in large cities."
The Whitman administration disagrees. Last week, in announcing a state report on business relocations, the Governor emphasized that more than half of the 116 companies that moved to New Jersey last year chose "metropolitan centers." (Jersey City, with 14 of the 116, and Newark, with 6, were identified as "hot spots." Paterson got 4, and Elizabeth and Trenton each got 2.)
And when Jersey City, Elizabeth and Newark appeared at the top of the rankings on construction activity, the Commissioner of the State Department of Community Affairs, Jane M. Kenny, spoke of "a building boom in the cities."
Ms. Kenny -- who was born and grew up in Jersey City -- leads the administration's urban revitalization efforts, a slew of programs providing professional help and seed money in the hope that private enterprise will bloom. "It's a combination of the state having tools that cities need, and I think we have, and a city that knows how to take advantage of the tools," she said.
William Dressel, the executive director of the New Jersey League of Municipalities, said, "It's still a struggle" to attract businesses to older downtowns. But Mr. Dressel added: "Every mayor I can think of in the past five years or so has been basically reinventing urban government. I see more doing roll-up-your-sleeves work up and down the state, redoing their wharves, their central downtown areas, Brownfields cleanups, and really doing some very aggressive lobbying and arm-twisting."
ONE is Mayor Douglas H. Palmer of Trenton, who has spent almost a decade wheeling and pleading for one hotel for his city -- while others proliferated along Route 1. The state finally agreed this month to release a $5 million loan for the downtown Marriott that he covets, and the Mayor said the groundbreaking could be expected soon.
Still, as many visitors ask, what kind of capital has no hotel rooms? And what kind of state operates with no healthy cities?
"The state that compares with New Jersey is Connecticut," Mr. Salmore said. "Bridgeport, Hartford and New Haven are all in very bad shape. They're poor cities in a wealthy state. It's a very suburban state, with very similar problems and similar political situations. Both are tax-averse and upscale."
But those Connecticut cities do a little better than New Jersey's Big Six, at least in income levels. Hartford has television stations and major league sports franchises. All have hotels.
Newark comes closest to behaving like a big city, especially with the opening of the new Performing Arts Center, the investment in offices and retail development -- more than $100 million last year -- and its university complex. Still, Newark, which once provided one in five jobs in the state, now accounts for fewer than one in 25.
"It's unlikely that cities in New Jersey are ever going to be important," said Barbara Lawrence, the executive director of New Jersey Future, a nonprofit planning organization. Ms. Lawrence, reflecting after a conference on sprawl, added that in view of the centrifugal force sending the population ever outward, any growth was remarkable. Still, she said, a little is not enough.
"Think of it as market share," she said. "If you were a company and increasing revenue but losing market share, you'd say, 'Whoa, we're on the wrong track.' That's where our cities are."
Mr. Hughes at Rutgers says New Jersey's cities have been on the wrong track for decades, since their short-lived reason for being expired.
"We did not build great cities in the European sense," he said. "What happened was manufacturing firms agglomerated into tight complexes in the 19th century, and we woke up and had six overgrown factory towns."
Now, they are factory towns short on factories. The Big Six have managed a 1.1 percent increase in employment in private industry since 1992, roughly the beginning of the economy's expansion, but since 1975 they have lost almost 20 percent of their jobs. And of all the new jobs in the Big Six since 1992, one city, Jersey City, accounts for more than 90 percent.
Jersey City is the celebrated exception. It's a city being physically remade and economically -- if not fiscally -- held together by its new role. Like New York, from which it received thousands of jobs, Jersey City is a center for finance.
On a recent drive around the city, Annemarie C. Uebbing, director of housing, economic development and commerce, spoke with an ease that sounds right in a city that saw $203 million in development last year.
"We've got the waterfront, and we don't have to create the market," Ms. Uebbing said. When developers approach, she said, "we can say, 'We'll get this through for you.' You have to put on this political show. It's almost the field of dreams thing."
To start, she pointed out the office towers newly risen on two one-acre parcels that Hartz Mountain Industries bought for $20 million. To the north, past residential towers, she noted the Doubletree Hotel, a Marriott, is under construction, she said, and Hyatt and Embassy Suites plan to build.
Passing the Newport Centre Mall, where Manhattanites come for the sales tax break, she mentioned that Modell's and Office Max are joining Sears, Stern's and J. C. Penney, the only department stores in the Big Six.
Along the way, on the waterfront and on the inland streets that resemble Detroit or Gary, Ind., Ms. Uebbing indicated vacant swaths where housing is planned.
And she talked about the pedestrian-friendly, neotraditional "new urbanism" of the architect Andres Duany -- something the well-educated urbanites the city draws actually might have given some thought to. Some colonized the brownstones that reminded them of Park Slope, in sometimes uneasy buffers between the gleaming waterfront and the poverty that still makes life in Jersey City difficult.
The other Big Six cities, of course, beg for any measure of gentrification. But few expect that to come about.
Mr. Hughes, for one, sees little to be restored. The housing slapped together for factory workers "doesn't have chestnut moldings and walnut doors," he said. "It's not the housing that today's middle class would ever consider living in."
Mr. Salmore wavered before concluding, "I'm not even cautiously optimistic." "There are pockets," he said. "There are some neighborhoods in Elizabeth. Camden? I don't see anywhere in Camden people want to move back to."
The result, naturally, is that New Jersey's cities, even more so than other American cities, are custodians of the poor. Mayor Bret Schundler of Jersey City, a Republican who often quarrels with the Republican Governor, says the state fails to account for the exhaustive social needs in the cities.
"You need someplace for the poor to live," Mr. Schundler said in an interview, gesturing and talking urban policy at the rat-a-tat pace for which he is known. "The issue becomes: if you have a lot of people who need services and live in property that doesn't pay much in taxes, you ghettoize your cities."
That was a point that Camden politicians tried to illuminate for their overseers from the state on a bus tour last month, not long after Mayor Milton Milan filed and then withdrew his city's petition for bankruptcy.
The hosts on the bus tour were four City Council members, and the guests were two members of the financial review board that has supervised Camden's budget for a year, plus Commissioner Kenny of the Department of Community Affairs and several other officials from Trenton.
The tour accentuated the negative, although the Council members eagerly showed off restored housing and introduced a few friendly constituents. At the first pause on the tour, in front of Riverfront State Prison, Councilman Angel Fuentes said: "The residents would really like to see a hotel and convention center here, but unfortunately, we got stuck with this prison. At least the landscaping is nice."
In East Camden, the group had alighted for a discussion of infrastructure dollars -- a local housing activist explained that the area was off-limits to new housing because the city could not repair storm sewers -- when some on the tour happened on a house with an open door.
The startled occupant, a man in a wheelchair who spoke only Spanish, was soon being introduced to Stephen R. Sasala 2d, the chairman of the financial review board who has since stepped down. The people in suits looked shyly at the craters in the walls and the bare, dangling light bulb, an artificial leg and a table crowded with prescription vials.
Councilman Francisco Moran finished his segment of the tour a bit sardonically. "I don't know if you've noticed, but I haven't had the pleasure of talking about big companies with lots of jobs," Mr. Moran said. "East Camden doesn't have any. It's not a good thing being an elected official in this city with no alternatives to offer people."
He added, "I hope this has been at least touching for you guys."
Camden also exemplifies the bind that results from one distinctive fact of political life in New Jersey: its reliance on property taxes. Already drained of commercial and industrial taxpayers -- in Camden's case, the Campbell Soup Company, RCA and an entire shipbuilding industry -- the cities have to tap residents in a self-defeating cycle.
When Camden filed for bankruptcy, Governor Whitman received a lecture from the other side of the border as The Philadelphia Inquirer complained in an editorial: "Camden is merely the poster child for broader problems in a wealthy state where poor cities are punished by their forced dependence on a shaky property tax base -- with matters made worse by the Governor's cuts in state income tax."
Camden taxpayers clearly fare worse than those outside the city. Camden's effective property-tax rate -- that is, the tax per $100 of market value -- is $3.88, while Cherry Hill's is $2.68 and in Voorhees it is $2.90. Trenton's burden is even worse. Its effective rate is $3.43, compared with $1.95 in Princeton Township and $2.676 in Ewing Township.
These disparities do not exist in most states. In New York, for example, Buffalo and Rochester have effective tax rates almost identical to those in the suburbs.
Professor Hughes doubts that this makes much difference. If all capital investment by the state is counted, he said, "I bet on a per capita basis New Jersey's expenditures on its cities are probably commensurate with New York's."
But Mayor Schundler, like Mayor Milan in Camden, complains that the state's formulas for direct aid leave the cities forever at Trenton's mercy. "Since aid is a function of distress, they're paying you for distress," Mr. Schundler said. "They're basically saying, it's your fate to be a ghetto. The minute you begin to climb up, we'll cut your aid so you'll have to raise your property tax rates."
IF that is ever going to change, the cities will have to find alliances in Trenton. The Big Six have less than 10 percent of the state's voters and not much of a legislative delegation at all, let alone one that can wield influence like those in New York, Illinois or Pennsylvania.
The Whitman administration has focused not on aid -- in fact, state funds to all municipalities have declined -- but on self-help measures and land-use planning. The State Development and Redevelopment Plan, for example, is meant to direct state infrastructure spending to urban areas, and the Brownfields program offers incentives for redeveloping abandoned urban sites.
Ms. Kenny, the community affairs commissioner, subscribes to what many call "the broken window theory," holding that small gestures can have inordinate effects on how people treat their surroundings.
"Everybody talks about the squeegees in New York City as a tremendous symbol," she said. "People start little by little to feel the neighborhood's improving. We've seen it with home ownership. I'll use Newark as an example. When we go there, you see brand-new houses and homeowners for the first time getting a homeowners association and putting swings in their backyards. You go back the next time, and people on the next block have started fixing up their houses."
Newark is indeed the place to look. While Jersey City houses its newcomers in sleek apartment towers, Newark is trying to recapture its old residential self with single-family houses for the middle class and the near-poor.
The city, which led the state in rehabilitation construction last year, also had 611 new housing units, most of them one- and two-family houses. And many went into the Central Ward, which has so much vacant or abandoned property that big chunks can be claimed for what is, in effect, tract housing.
One new development built last year, Magnolia Court, occupies an entire city block where just one house had been left standing. The builder, RPM Development Group of Montclair, sold the 32 new houses quickly and, left with a waiting list, took a nearby three-block tract for Magnolia Court II.
Now, closings are beginning on those houses. Not far away, buyers are moving into two more developments, Crystal Gardens and Macedonia Heights, sponsored by church-affiliated nonprofits. Most of the buyers are church members, said Paul R. De Bellis Jr., vice president of the builder, American Dream Homes.
These and a half-dozen more new inner-city subdivisions, all built with state mortgage subsidies and construction financing aid, amount to a vast experiment, but for now the market is hotter than anyone had dared to predict. Add them up, and they probably account for Newark's population gain last year of 644 residents, after a loss of more than 7,000 since 1990.
"This is not gentrification," said Ed Martogio, a principal of RPM. "It's bringing middle-income people back to the core."
Not that Mr. Martoglio is opposed to gentrification. "We're looking to have more people come to Newark," he said, including "people with plenty of money."
Then, allowing that he might be getting carried away, he added, "I can't help thinking there's tremendous potential in downtown."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cities in the most densely populated state in the nation -- and one of the wealthiest -- are factory towns without the factories. In 1947, Broad and Market Streets in Newark thrived. Today, the intersection is a mosaic of shuttered windows and for rent signs. (The New York Times, and Norman Y. Lono, inset, for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The mayor of Trenton has spent years pleading for a hotel; the state has finally agreed to release a $5 million loan for a Marriott. Above is a partly vacant mall downtown. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); Jersey City -- the celebrated exception -- is being physically and economically reborn. Above, shops rise on Marin Luther King Boulevard, and at right, the city from the turnpike extension. In Camden, below, business and government leaders take a bus tour. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono, top, and Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ); JERSEY CITY (NJ); PATERSON (NJ); ELIZABETH (NJ); TRENTON (NJ); CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); SUBURBS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TRENDS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



573 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 5; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Rise in Working Poor

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
A lagging minimum wage, job growth focused mainly at the low and high extremes of the pay scale and welfare reform have combined to increase the number of working poor families in New Jersey over the past decade, a child advocacy group says.
In a report made public last Tuesday, the Association for Children of New Jersey, based in Newark, found that the number of working poor families rose from an average of 45,300 for the three-year period of 1987-89, to 57,000 for 1995-97. 
 The report defines working poor families as those with total incomes below the Federal poverty level and with at least one adult employed at least part of the year.
The poverty level was $16,530 for a family of four in 1998, and the report said 260,000 children were living under it. The report was based on Federal census information, said Jeannette Johnson, who helped write it.
Ms. Johnson cited the minimum wage as one factor in the growth. The wage "just hasn't kept pace with inflation, and is 30 percent of what it was 30 years ago in real terms," she said. She added that new jobs in the state tended to be low-end service work or high-paying skilled positions.
One of the association's chief concerns is that with welfare reform, it can be even more difficult for parents in low-paying jobs to care for their children than it had been for them be at home, on welfare.
"It's great that people are moving off of welfare," said Ms. Johnson. "But if they're not moving out of poverty, we should be doing something to help them."
The number of families living in poverty overall has also increased during the survey period, from 88,000 to 108,000, Ms. Johnson said. While the percentage of working families who are poor has increased, from 4.9 percent to 5.8 percent, she said, the percentage of poor families who are working is roughly the same.
The report does not assert that the overall plight of children in the state has worsened. And, said Andy Williams, a spokesman for the State Division of Youth and Family Services, "We don't have any indication that it has."
The report recommends raising the state's minimum wage, which is now the same as the Federal minimumof $5.15 an hour. Ms. Johnson said New Jersey was not among the eight states with minimum wages above the Federal level. She said Connecticut's minimum, for example, was $5.65, and was scheduled to increase to $6.15 next year, even though housing costs in Connecticut were lower than in New Jersey.
A second recommendation is for the state to implement an earned income tax credit, similar to one adopted by the Federal Government, as well as by some states, including New York. For example, someone earning $10,573 a year, the pay for a full-time minimum wage job, would have owed New Jersey $92 in state income tax for 1997, whereas in New York, which offers a state earned income tax credit, that same earner would have gotten a rebate check for $487, Ms. Johnson said.
The association supports legislation sponsored by the the state Assembly Speaker, Jack Collins, which would gradually raise the minimum taxable income from the current $7,500 to $20,000 in the year 2002. The legislation was approved by the Legislature in June, and is incorporated in Governor Whitman's budget for the 2000 fiscal year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDREN OF NEW JERSEY

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDREN OF NEW JERSEY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAGES & SALARIES (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POVERTY RATES (89%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CENSUS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); INCOME TAX (60%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE JEANNETTE JOHNSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



574 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Strong Economy

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
New York's economy showed consistent strength in August, with employment in the private sector up from the year before, the state's chief economist, Stephen Kagan, said.
"The strength was evident throughout most industries and most regions of the state," Mr. Kagan said. "In particular, construction employment in the state was up 6.6 percent compared with 4 percent in the nation, reflecting robust spending by homeowners and businesses." 
 Westchester fared even better, with jobs in the construction industry up by 7.4 percent in August, compared with a year ago, said Frank M. Surdey, a regional economist for the state's Department of Labor.
Manufacturing jobs were up 2.4 percent, compared with the national figure, which was down by 2 percent.
Mr. Surdey said manufacturing figures were especially significant because they presaged an influx of new dollars from abroad. Growth in the construction industry, he said, is an indicator of new housing, new business activity and "more expansion and jobs down the road." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR CONSTRUCTION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); HOMEOWNERS (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA STEPHEN KAGAN (85%); FRANK M SURDEY (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



575 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 17; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Backtalk;
O.K., Class, Open Your Bookbags And Dig In

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
The reading season has just opened, and here's your fall list. Pop quizzes to come.
Andrew Zimbalist, a Smith College economist (yes, even a coach there asked him to be lenient with an athlete), locates the end of intercollegiate sports innocence in 1852 when a railroad offered "lavish prizes" and "unlimited alcohol" to lure Harvard and Yale rowers to a race on a New Hampshire lake. The lures have worked ever since, although most of the prizes seem to be going to coaches and schools. Nothing is as heartbreaking as the $8 million in post-season bowl revenue Notre Dame missed out on when a kicker missed an extra point. 
 In remarkably clear and clear-eyed prose (even his charts are readable), Zimbalist follows the money instead of the ball in the emotion-charged world of college sports. "Unpaid Professionals" (Princeton University Press) uses this basic starting point -- "No other industry in the United States manages not to pay its principal producers a wage or salary" -- to survey the compromised standards of academia and suggest reforms, which include outright professionalization of teams. One provocative innovation would be requiring the National Basketball Association and the National Football League to support their college "minor leagues" financially.
Zimbalist will be joining such reformers as Professor William C. Dowling, architect of the Rutgers 1000 campaign -- which is devoted to de-emphasizing sports at the university -- and Professor Murray Sperber of Indiana at an extraordinary conference at Drake University in Des Moines on Oct. 21 and 22 "for those who are fed up with the corruption, exploitation and hypocrisy in collegiate athletics and are willing to work to end it." Created by Professor Jon Ericson, the gathering is unusual in that it not only starts with the consensus that the system is wrong, but that the ultimate responsibility to fix it is in the shaky hands of a faculty that either ignores sports or is besotted by it.
One wrinkle in the student-athlete system is the role of the traditionally black colleges, before and after integration, in creating leadership. Did anyone think all their coaches and quarterbacks were white? As African-American institutions, those colleges were far more important than the relentlessly sentimentalized Negro baseball leagues. And the colleges still exist and have influence. "Never Before, Never Again," (St. Martin's Press, $24.95) is the autobiography of Coach Eddie Robinson of Grambling, written with Richard Lapchick, the founder of the Center for the Study of Sport in Society. Since both men are determinedly friendly (George Steinbrenner wrote the foreword, Jesse Jackson the afterword), the criticisms are muted, but the sense of place and history, and "the winningest" football coach's own story are happily preserved.
"Inside Sports," edited by Jay Coakley and Peter Donnelly (Routledge), is a basic sociology text heavy on ethnographic methodology. But there is enough truth to the title to make this interesting to the general reader.
Janet Saltzman Chafetz and Joseph A. Kotarba follow Little League mothers "doing gender," working harder at fulfilling their stereotypes than the "son gods" they are servicing. Todd Crosset describes the almost familial relationship between female pro golfers and their fans.
Beckey Beal reports on the subversive dogmas of skateboarders; they believe they are combating mainstream competition with cooperation. Alan M. Klein contributes a timely piece on the North American socialization of Dominican baseball players, and Douglas E. Foley goes to South Texas to study Friday night rites, including the "ritual of reversal" called "powderpuff football" in which the cheerleaders don pads and try to play seriously and the players don drag and mock women. This experience leads Foley to return to Iowa after more than 40 years and interview the Indian "hellraiser" who starred on his own high school team.
A hockey wife, writing under a pseudonym to protect her husband's career, and Bette McKenzie, a hockey daughter and former football wife, write revealingly about the culture of celebrity sports families. Each deserves a book of her own.
The coffee-table gift book on the list is "Glory" (William Morrow, $45), a collection of Richard Corman's startling photographs in which the obvious subjects -- Muhammad Ali, Cal Ripken Jr., Michael Jordan, dancers, Special Olympians -- seem to be moving in previously unseen and revealing ways.
For pure fun and apocalyptic nightmares, there is "Roller Derby to Roller Jam: The Authorized Story of an Unauthorized Sport" by Keith Coppage (Squarebooks, $19.95), as much promo as history of an exhibition that is trying to reinvent itself on the model of pro wrestling, with characters and story lines. I always liked roller derby because the sex and violence was right up front.
There were mom-and-son combos (the "diabetic housewife," Josephine Bogash, and Billy, stars of the 30's and 40's) and matinee idols (Charlie O'Connell and Joan Weston) and an inspired silliness that seemed only a putsch away from the fascist image of Rollerball. Now it's all back, cable ready, and a good, small, accessible, metaphorical subject for some of those apprentice sports sociologists. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (77%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (77%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BASEBALL (78%); ATHLETES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CORRUPTION (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



576 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: Bringing the Party to Sotheby's

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH HAYT 

 BODY:
IT was nearly 11 P.M., and Tiffany Dubin was seated at a vanity table on a hot-pink velvet chair in the dressing room of her Upper East Side apartment, wearing a baby-doll nightgown. Her day had begun with meetings at Sotheby's, where she is the head of the fashion department, continued with an afternoon trip to Chinatown to buy bar stools and after a quick change into a 1960's Norman Norell dress, wound down at a business dinner at Fressen in the meatpacking district.
But even though her makeup had long since worn off and the flip of her brunet bob had gone limp, Ms. Dubin seemed to be getting her second wind. "I'm a workaholic," she said perkily. "I have to hide it from my husband. It's a problem. I'll put him to sleep at 11:30 and then go on the Internet to buy plexiglass display cases for my sale." 
 "My sale" is "Cocktails," the latest in a series of themed auctions of vintage clothing and kitsch accessories that have challenged the stodgy, elitist world of Old Master paintings and rare coins that Sotheby's and Ms. Dubin's own upper-crust background represent.
"I'm not making fun of that whole world -- I'm having fun with it," she said.
"Do you think it's O.K. to say that?" she asked, letting out a nervous, high-pitched laugh.
The sale, to be held on Thursday, includes 1960's Pucci hot pants, Hugh Hefner's silk pajamas and all kinds of lounge accessories -- corkscrews, openers, matchbooks -- more typically found at flea markets.
Ms. Dubin is well aware that her esthetic, as well as her position at Sotheby's, raises eyebrows. Because her stepfather is A. Alfred Taubman, the shopping-mall tycoon who bought Sotheby's in 1982, took it public four years later and reigns as chairman today, her professional qualifications are often questioned.
"Her stepfather must have something to do with Tiffany getting the job," said Keni Valenti, an antique clothing dealer in New York, expressing a view shared by many. "A lot of these kids at Sotheby's are well-to-do children who have been handed something to make something of themselves."
But Ms. Dubin, 33, shrugs off charges of nepotism and the spoiled-rich-girl image. As a teen-ager, she started at the bottom at Sotheby's, filling in for receptionists. In 1984, she entered Georgetown University (where she met her future husband, Louis Dubin, a real estate developer), but she took seven years to complete her bachelor's degree because she took time off for secretarial school and a job as a waitress.
Returning to New York, she worked at Sotheby's as a personal shopper for major clients, handling everything from phone bidding to jewelry repairs. In 1997, after she handled the fashion end of the sale of the estate of Martha Phillips, the owner of Martha, the high-end Park Avenue women's clothing store, she was allowed to create the fashion department.
To mount her first big sale that year -- of vintage haute couture from France -- she relied on family connections. Ms. Dubin's mother, Judy Taubman, is a statuesque blonde and former Miss Israel who resembles Britt Ekland and is well known at the Paris couture houses. Ms. Dubin called on her mother's friends, couture customers like Sao Schlumberger, Catherine Deneuve and Empress Farah of Iran -- to consign their one-of-a-kind dresses.
Despite her high-society breeding, Ms. Dubin distances herself from her mother in terms of taste. "My mother is a safe dresser who wears classics and doesn't experiment," Ms. Dubin said. "She has very definite ideas about what is right and what is wrong in terms of clothes. I'm wrong. She doesn't like trendiness."
Ms. Dubin may have put herself on the map by raiding the closets of her mother's friends, but her promotion of used (even expensive used) clothing was a detour into flea-market chic that her mother's set would never appreciate. Her seven fashion sales to date -- given witty titles like "To Have and to Hold" (for handbags) and "Pulp Fashion" (for paper products) -- have exploited the recent interest in midcentury design, attracting a much hipper crowd than normally found at the auction house at York Avenue and 72d Street. A Dubin sale brings out deejays, East Village clothing vendors in vintage Nikes, downtown designers like Pixie Yates and models like Chandra North who, between sneaking cigarettes outside the building, mingle with suited corporate types from Hermes and the Costume Institute.
"Her sales are fun, inventive and sexier than most anything else you'll see at auction," said Bruce Wolmer, the editor in chief of Art and Auction magazine. "Her sales get a range of people, not just the traditional collectors of vintage couture but a whole crowd of style tribes in New York."
Trendiness is what Ms. Dubin is all about. She recently sold off an apartmentful of antiques, including a 19th-century English commode and her Piranesi prints, to redecorate with 1960's and 70's furniture, much of it bought on Ebay. Posing for the January cover of Town & Country magazine, she wore a $75 vintage dress. Her mother's response, as Ms. Dubin recounted it: "It would be so much better if you wore simple clothes, not those silly trendy things."
Last week Mrs. Taubman was traveling in England and could not be reached for comment, but Ms. Dubin's brother, Christopher Rounick, confirmed that his mother is not the staunchest admirer of his sister's taste. "My view of my mother and sister is that growing up, my mother instilled in my sister her fashion taste, but my sister wanted to try out different things," he said. "My mother's style is impeccable, but modern taste isn't her era, and she's not doing anything to understand it. I don't think my mother is wild about my sister selling vintage clothes. She doesn't really understand the nostalgia. She's from Israel, and 'vintage' is more an American thing."
Ms. Dubin said the other day: "My mother thinks I'm crass. She doesn't like it. I got that from my father. It's amazing how genes split themselves up." Ms. Dubin's parents divorced when she was 12; her father, Herbert Rounick, died in 1991. An owner of several clothing companies, Mr. Rounick was the son of a Lithuanian immigrant who peddled socks on the streets of Philadelphia.
D ESPITE Ms. Dubin's identification with her father, others are not so quick to see the connection. "Tiffany is very refined and elegant," said Mr. Valenti, the antique clothing dealer, who recalled his surprise at learning she was Mr. Rounick's daughter. "I knew her father, and he was a short, husky guy who smoked cigars, a real go-getter. He was in the rag business, but I guess Tiffany is now in the rag business, too." Far richer rags, however.
Ms. Dubin's 10021 ZIP code and her ties to the pashmina pack have certainly helped advance her career. "What Tiffany has done, which is brilliant, is to target her circle of well-heeled Upper East Side girls who have fairly honed fashion sensibilities and are sophisticated shoppers," said Hamish Bowles, Vogue's European editor at large and a vintage clothing collector himself. "She has made vintage clothes acceptable to a certain set of people who have been squeamish about buying old clothes." People like Jennifer Creel, Milly de Cabrol, Nadja Swarovski and Marina Rust.
That set may also have deeper pockets than the ordinary couture collector. "Tiffany Dubin pulls in clients that bring in bigger bucks," noted Mr. Valenti, who sold a Christian Dior suit at Sotheby's for $44,000. "She can sell a Courreges dress for $6,000 to $7,000. Can Doyle do that?" He was referring to William Doyle Galleries, the only other auction house in New York with an independent fashion department. (Christie's includes clothing in its celebrity and entertainment sales.)
Ms. Dubin's auctions are more like publicity events for In Style magazine than highbrow sales with a roomful of silent bidders. In December 1998, for an auction of celebrity-owned designer and vintage handbags, Kevin Krier, a fashion show producer, helped Ms. Dubin recruit Tom Ford of Gucci as a sponsor. The auction room was transformed, with waiters dressed in black Gucci outfits passing trays of fruit-flavored sodas in psychedelic colors.
E! Entertainment Television covered the event.
Those with more conventional expectations of an auction house say Ms. Dubin's sales lack substance. "Sotheby's fashion department is all about publicity, parties, presentation and image," said Linda Donahue, the director of couture and textiles at Doyle, where fashion auctions have been held since 1983. "We're a whole different ball game. We're about buying the clothes."
Another criticism is that Ms. Dubin's sales, despite their high profile, do not generate much income -- grossing less than one-half of 1 percent of Sotheby's $2 billion revenues in 1998. Mr. Wolmer of Art and Auction estimated that individual sales have brought in $300,000 to $400,000. "The events are more spectacular than the price results," he said.
Her last show, "Pulp Fashion," in May, was an out-and-out flop: about 30 percent of the items -- 1960's paper dresses and a duct-tape copy of the Kelly bag -- went unsold.
But Sotheby's defends Ms. Dubin, saying that she has attracted new customers. "So much of what the fashion department does is to bring in new clients and collectors," said David Redden, an executive vice president. "I would guess most of her customers are new to Sotheby's, and they're young, too. We have to keep renewing the collectors." Ms. Dubin says that she has added 6,000 new clients to Sotheby's mailing list and that about 40 percent of them now cross over to other sales categories, like photography and jewelry.
Moreover, Ms. Dubin has gradually built up the prices for vintage fashion. The items in her first show of Paris couture three years ago brought an average of $500 each. For "Cocktails," there are many lots estimated at more than $3,000, and Ms. Dubin expects a profit of at least $100,000. Helene Verin, a housewares and shoe designer, sold a pair of Norma Kamali sneakers for $1,100 at a Dubin sale last year. "Nobody else can get that kind of price except her," said Ms. Verin, who bought the shoes in the 70's for less than $100.
Ms. Dubin's budget is small -- not enough to pay for her splashy color catalogues or the sales themselves, and so she has taken the somewhat controversial step of selling ads in the catalogues and seeking corporate sponsors for the sales. After "Pulp Fashion," she received an angry letter from a client. "She was very disappointed that Sotheby's was demeaning itself by relying on advertising," Ms. Dubin said. "But I said: 'Great! We're another form of retailing, so what's the difference?' "
For "Cocktails," Ms. Dubin again is pushing the boundaries of what customers expect at Sotheby's. With the economy bubbling and the taste for luxury sweeter than ever, the sale is a timely acknowledgment of the role of cocktail culture in New York social life. The sale includes a Playboy Bunny costume (estimated to sell for $8,000 to $10,000), the first ever offered at auction, and the proceeds for this and several other lots will benefit the Community Research Initiative on AIDS.
Last Wednesday, Christie Hefner, the chief executive of Playboy Enterprises, was the host for a dinner to stir interest in the auction, drawing a stylish crowd to Playboy's penthouse on Fifth Avenue. Playmates in Bunny suits greeted guests like the junior jet-setters Sloan Lindemann and Ghislaine Maxwell, the artists Ross Bleckner and Tom Sachs, and Jack Kliger, the president of Hachette Filipacchi Magazines. The entertainment featured a drag queen who belted out a song. The decor, including a Playboy Bunny ice sculpture and fake fur runners on the tables, was pure 60's kitsch.
The tables glowed with lava lamps, which Barbara Cirkva, the fashion director of Chanel in the United States, confessed she had never seen before. But another guest recognized the lamps right away as part and parcel of the recycled esthetic Ms. Dubin champions.
"What she has done is take the buying and selling and collecting of vintage clothing from an obsessive, arcane club into the wider public arena," said one guest, Amy Fine Collins, a fashion writer and special correspondent for Vanity Fair. "She has people buying vintage clothes, boasting about wearing vintage clothes. People used to be ashamed, or at least secretive, about wearing these clothes. Now it's a badge of honor and chic. Tiffany legitimated all that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: TREND CENTRAL -- Tiffany Dubin redecorated her apartment in 1960's and 70's furniture. Insets, pages from the catalogue for "Cocktails," her next sale at Sotheby's, where she heads the fashion department. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AUCTIONS ART DEALERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); PAINTING (67%); STEPPARENTS (62%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (62%); COINS & COINAGE (57%); 

PERSON: HAYT, ELIZABETH; DUBIN, TIFFANY A ALFRED TAUBMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



577 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Unions See Fertile Fields At Lower End of High Tech

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.

 BODY:
IN a valley that celebrates its bumper crop of winners, you might count people like Julian Cornejo as among the losers. Mr. Cornejo, 55, a technician in computer-aided design, has spent the last 15 years working as a kind of high-tech gypsy for various temporary agencies, a situation that now leaves him nearly broke and on the brink of homelessness.
"Temporary workers have become a hidden subculture here," Mr. Cornejo said. "You don't enjoy the stock options or the holidays. When you're laid off, you just bite the bullet. You don't get much respect." 
 Mr. Cornejo's experience as a temp, which included a financially ruinous dispute with an employment agency over a workers' compensation claim, has led him to support a new effort to organize contingent workers throughout Silicon Valley. And the travails of workers like him offer what union organizers see as a unique opportunity to improve on the negligible headway they have made among technology workers at established companies.
The drive to organize the valley's huge army of temporary workers also reflects growing concern about the widening gaps between differing classes of workers in the high-tech economy of the late 1990's. Research from both ends of the labor-management spectrum shows that while top executives' compensation has been soaring throughout the decade, the real wages of lower-end workers have been stagnant or dropping, even in the pulsing heart of the technology boom.
"There's a myth that everyone is rich and that poverty is just a transitional problem," said Bob Brownstein, policy director for Working Partnerships, a labor-backed group that has studied the valley economy. "That is something that is simply not true."
Mr. Brownstein and several academic experts trace much of widening class chasm to a shift by high-technology companies to hiring temporary workers. Since the mid-1980's, employment in temporary agencies in the valley has risen at twice the overall job growth rate and now accounts for 27 to 40 percent of the total work force, according to Chris Benner, a researcher for Working Partnerships. Wages for part-time workers -- mainly clerks, electronics assembly workers and technicians -- have generally lagged behind those of full-time employees.
Greater reliance on temps is a trend in many sectors of the economy, but according to Mr. Brownstein, it represents an especially stark shift in culture in the technology industry, where the role models used to be giants like Intel and Hewlett-Packard that prided themselves on generous, almost paternalistic employment policies. A new wave of companies, he said, reject such practices and instead use temporary or contract labor to maintain flexibility while restricting their permanent staff to a small number of core employees.
Many of the valley's temps, like Mr. Cornejo, have trade-school-taught computer and technology skills that once might have spared them from the kinds of indignities more usually associated with garment sweatshops or farm fields. No longer, said Erica Rios, a union organizer. Unlike the young programmers and engineers who work crushing hours but can hope to join in windfall profits through stock options and other incentives, "these workers do not feel they are part of the high-tech industry," she observed. "They play an important role but feel totally unappreciated."
Their disaffection is the starting point for organizing efforts like Working Partnership's Temporary Workers Project. The project includes setting up a temporary-workers' association, drafting a new model code of conduct for employers and establishing a new temporary agency called Together@Work. Ms. Rios said the effort sprang from workers' complaints that the workers' compensation and health benefits offered by for-profit temporary agencies are inadequate and that the agencies make it difficult for workers to avail themselves of their benefits.
Mr. Cornejo said he filed a workers' compensation claim in February 1998 after experiencing a shoulder injury on the job at a local semiconductor company, but received nothing until October, because of what he called foot-dragging by the agency that had placed him; the injury left him far behind on his bills. "The agencies don't want to press a claim that may cost a company something," he said. "They don't want to bite the hand that feeds them."
The unions may see an opportunity, but industry officials doubt that labor will have any more luck organizing contingent workers than they have had with full-timers. Carl Guardino, president of the Silicon Valley Manufacturers Association, said unions simply do not fit well into what he sees as the region's highly collaborative culture.
"I think the reason that Silicon Valley has functioned so well for so long -- and so many boats have risen -- is that there is not so much of this 'us versus them' that is associated with many of the unions," Mr. Guardino said. "I can appreciate that they are looking at this sector. But will they be effective in Silicon Valley? I don't think so."
So far, the evidence backs him up. The organizing effort has not succeeded in changing policies at major temporary agencies, and after nine months in existence, Together@Work has placed only 100 people. Yet both Ms. Rios and Christine Macias, who runs the temporary agency, see their efforts as just the beginning of a breakthrough for unions in an industry unfriendly to their efforts.
For one thing, the issue of contract workers and their treatment in the workplace has attracted media attention, including articles in The San Jose Mercury News, and a California State Senate committee plans hearings on the subject. Mr. Brownstein says that the valley's image as the home of a new democratic capitalism is beginning to wear thin, and that both workers and employers are coming around to the idea that new standards for temporary labor are needed.
"There are more and more people, even in industry, who fear that the gap between the rich and poor is becoming the biggest threat to the security of the valley," Mr. Brownstein said. "You don't have to be a Cassandra or a radical to know something needs to change. That's the discussion we're trying to start."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julian Cornejo, an unemployed technician in computer-aided design, supports plans to organize Silicon Valley's contingent workers. (Mark Richards for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT (95%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); ELECTRONICS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); TRENDS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (72%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL JULIAN CORNEJO (89%); BOB BROWNSTEIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



578 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
Into Thin Air: Buying Shelter From the Storm

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
IT was gray and rainy the day we signed a contract to buy an apartment in Morningside Heights, but we tried not to take it as a symbol of anything. We signed and we surrendered a down payment check with a lot of digits. Then my husband and I went to a neighborhood diner and slumped in a booth, weary rather than exhilarated by the experience of buying a piece of Manhattan.
It has become a truism that the current real-estate market is a funnyhouse of high prices, neurotic co-op boards and nasty bidding wars. But as with childbirth, everyone's pain is different. 
 In New York, what counts is where you are on the housing continuum: homeless, subletting, rent-controlled, desperately seeking three bedrooms, fleeing the city for the suburbs or fleeing the suburbs for the city.
Buying an apartment threatened, on one level, to reduce me and my husband to pay stubs, net worth statements and income tax returns. On another level, we struggled with the weird vertigo of being middle-class on this island of economic extremes.
Squeezed between the visible effervescence of the rich and the blatant reality of the poor kids around the corner who will be wearing scrawny jackets this winter, I find myself torn between desire and despair. I worry about the people I know who are just getting by, and at the same time I am lured by the trappings of wealth I see displayed on the Upper West Side, the land of Maclarens with an undeserved reputation for diversity and vestigial funk from its bohemian past.
In our neighborhood, the rich and the poor and the black, white, yellow and brown faces generally share public space more than anything else. The raging divide, though, is class. Like so much in New York, even class categories have an other-worldly quality. One can make money on paper, but the economic ante is upped on everything: housing, schools, restaurants.
When we told friends and relatives in other cities that apartments with two bedrooms, a dining room and an additional small room called a maid's room went for upward of $600,000 on the Upper West Side, the response was either silence or sympathetic gasps. In other places, that fetches a mansion.
This surreal situation was driven home to me when a neighbor assured me that families making under $200,000 a year qualified for financial aid at one of those schools at which tuition for 3-year-olds is over $10,000. It was driven home when my husband and I trooped out of curiosity to an open house for a nice -- but not outstanding -- two-bedroom for $765,000, and the line of apartment seekers filled the hallways and dribbled down to the lobby.
Living here is a choice you have to reaffirm at any number of junctures, I reminded my husband and myself. In some ways, those reaffirmations parallel the city's invitation to rearrange or even reinvent yourself in the climb upward.
Strolling West End Avenue with its dowager buildings, I remembered being a young girl in Chicago and seeing my parents sleeping on a sofa bed. We ate dinner in the kitchen rather than a dining room. My sister and I shared a small bedroom and a single closet until I left home.
There was, therefore, something vulgar and disappointing in what should have the upwardly mobile experience of looking for one of those overpriced apartments with a maid's room. The caffeinated brokers told us that we had to compromise, that we did not need to see the sky or have a laundry room or (fill in the blank). True to the war stories we had heard, there was something amiss in most of the places we saw for our family of four. There were weird divisions of space, or no light, or water damage or not enough closets.
Soon we started recognizing the same people sniffing the same turf. There was a sweet concert pianist with a fear of co-op boards who needed space for the piano, and a couple in our building, expecting a child, who finally found a bigger place a few floors down.
One of our favorite fellow travelers was Edward Tarallo. We watched his son Daniel grow from a ball of fists and feet into a handsome infant. Edward and his wife, Eileen, looked at more than 100 places during a nine-month period before they bought.
One summer day we found a place. It had light, views and a fair price. First, the seller wanted the full asking price. We said O.K. Then, he wanted to keep our 10 percent deposit even if the deal didn't close. We said no. Next, he called mournfully and said a couple with three big children and one big dog had agreed to pay even more. We wondered if that family really existed.
We bid even higher and we had a deal. Then, on the day we planned to sign the contract, the seller called our lawyer's office after hours and said he had another buyer. We never found out why. Luckily, a few weeks later we found a cheaper place in the same building.
Our new apartment needs work. The bedrooms have no views and the doorman works part time. But rather than whine (which we do), we try to give ourselves a reality check. We look into the faces of the people scrambling home to the housing projects east of Broadway rather than the ones climbing into the limousines parked outside the Broadway shows.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBURBS (77%); RENT CONTROL (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%); INCOME TAX (53%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R EDWARD TARALLO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



579 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
An Internet Stable Is Ahead of the Pack

BYLINE: By JOANNE LEGOMSKY 

 BODY:
DURING a summer of Internet flame-outs, the stock of Internet Capital Group was noteworthy for streaking higher.
Internet Capital, a holding company in Wayne, Pa., that owns stakes of between 10 and 50 percent in a portfolio of 36 mostly private Internet-related companies, sold an 11 percent stake in itself to the public on Aug. 4, at $12 a share. Despite the ugly recent environment for Internet stocks, the shares finished their first day of trading at $24.4375 and are now at $91.125. That gives the company a stock market capitalization of $11.3 billion, versus $8.08 billion for CMGI, the Internet holding company in Andover, Mass., to which it is often compared. 
 Even with that run-up, the stock has continued to receive some favorable notices. Henry Blodget, an Internet analyst at Merrill Lynch, which was lead manager for Internet Capital's offering, has called it a "must-own" holding for long-term investors. The stock, he said, "allows public-market investors to invest at private-market prices."
Nearly all of Internet Capital's "partner businesses," as it calls its holdings, are engaged in so-called business-to-business commerce on line. And many Internet experts say it has enormous growth prospects.
Forrester Research in Boston expects business-to-business E-commerce to grow from $43 billion in 1998 to $1.3 trillion in 2003 -- far above the $108 billion it expects in E-commerce directed at consumers.
Bob Turner, chief investment officer of Turner Investment Partners, a money manager in Berwyn, Pa., who bought shares at the offering, said the company's "built-in diversification" is key to investing in business-to-business E-commerce, "where winners and losers are especially tough to identify."
The company was founded in 1996 by Walter W. Buckley 3d, now 39, who is chief executive, and Kenneth A. Fox, 29, a director. Both were employed at Safeguard Scientifics, an information technology firm with an impressive record in starting technology companies; Safeguard is Internet Capital's largest shareholder, with a 14.3 percent stake.
Internet Capital's largest holding, Verticalnet, went public in February at $16 a share and is now at $32.4375. It has 47 industry-specific on-line sites for commerce.
A big advantage of business-to-business E-commerce is scale. "It's a higher-margin, higher-impact business," said Charles Finnie, managing director at Volpe Brown Whelan, the San Francisco investment bank that was a manager for the Verticalnet underwriting. A typical transaction, he noted, can be thousands of dollars, compared with, say, $15 for a book.
Internet Capital may have advantages in attracting start-ups. It has devoted 40 percent of its current budget to amassing in-house expertise to help such businesses get off the ground. Because it owns only part of its businesses, their entrepreneurs can keep big positions and share in future growth.
Still, some Web-stock investors have stayed on the sidelines, seeing that Internet Capital trades at more than 11 times analysts' estimates of net asset value. Moreover, management expects to incur operating losses for several years.
Jay Tracey, manager of the Oppenheimer Enterprise fund, does not own Internet Capital shares, saying the company's businesses -- some with little more than a trickle of revenue -- are just too young to evaluate. "I may not be giving them enough credit for the individual properties," he said, "but their companies are very early-stage."
Mr. Blodget, for his part, predicts the shares will reach $125 within two years, on his assumption that Internet Capital, through its stakes in its partner companies, will account for 1 to 3 percent of all business-to-business E-commerce.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Eyes on E-Commerce" plots Internet Capital Group stock price, daily closes, since its I.P.O. at $12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ICGE (NASDAQ) (58%); SFE (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (58%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET CAPITAL GROUP MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); ICG GROUP INC (58%); SAFEGUARD SCIENTIFICS INC (58%); TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); BRAVOSOLUTION US (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNET CAPITAL GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: LEGOMSKY, JOANNE

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



580 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2759 words

HEADLINE: Harlem on the Brink

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
THE year was 1919. It was a new beginning. The Great War was over, and 1,300 black soldiers received a heroes' welcome as they marched victoriously up Fifth Avenue and home to Harlem. Life was going to be different for black people in New York and everywhere. It was time for the black intelligentsia to be received in the parlors of New York's power brokers.
A few years later, in 1925, the curtain rose on the Harlem Renaissance. The explosion of cultural life on a small strip of upper Manhattan -- the Langston Hughes readings at the Harlem Y.M.C.A., the burlesque and jazz clubs shooting stars into the night sky, the novels of Countee Cullen and Zora Neale Hurston, the glamorous evening walks along the wide boulevards -- were just around the corner. 
 This renaissance was no accident, says David Levering Lewis, the author of "When Harlem Was in Vogue" (Penguin Books, 1997). It was created by half a dozen intellectuals who called on their peers to join them in Harlem, where a new movement of literature and art would be born.
Now a new cadre of men and women are summoning another generation to Harlem to join what they call the Second Renaissance, an economic one.
The plan has been strongly criticized -- as an outsiders' notion, a danger to Harlem's heritage, a tourist promotion -- but it is nothing if not ambitious.
"The call is out," said Terry C. Lane, an investment banker who recently moved to Harlem and became the president and chief executive of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a development corporation created by the Federal Government in 1994 to promote economic revitalization. "It comes from the booming economy. This community should not be left out of the boom the city, and the country, is experiencing."
The response is in. Central Harlem is being remade, literally and figuratively. On almost every street from 110th to 155th Street, Fifth Avenue to St. Nicholas Avenue, some development is under way. Vacant lots are being filled with new homes. Boarded-up and abandoned brownstones are being restored. Big companies -- the Gap, Disney, Time Warner -- are embracing once-deserted commercial strips. Once-redlined business districts are getting loans from Chase, Citibank and other banks. People who left the city for greener pastures decades ago are rediscovering Harlem's broad avenues, turn-of-the-century row houses, vibrant nocturnal culture and easy access to the rest of Manhattan.
"The scale of development in Harlem is remarkable, both because it has not happened in many years, but also in comparison with other low-income communities," said Mark A. Willis, who runs the community development program at Chase Manhattan Bank, which has invested $150 million in Harlem in the last three years. "I don't think any other city has anything quite on that scale." And the projections for the future sound even better.
In five years, there will be 15,000 more units of housing in Harlem than there were five years ago, said Carol Abrams, spokeswoman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. Private investment in a score of major projects, more than $700 million in the next five years, is slated to create more than 10,000 jobs by 2005, says the Empire State Development Corporation, a state agency.
But though the plans are ambitious, the problems are huge. Harlem is still the most economically depressed section of Manhattan, by many measures. The citywide unemployment rate was 5.5 percent in 1996, but in central Harlem it was 9.8 percent. Central Harlem's median household income was $20,000, compared with $30,000 citywide. The home ownership rate is 10 percent, half the rate in Manhattan.
If there is to be another new beginning in Harlem, does it hold the promise of improving its prospects? Does it offer residents a shot at economic equality? Will increased lending lead to more local ownership and local leadership? Or, with such powerful corporate interests in their midst, will Harlemites lose control of their neighborhood?
Some wonder whether a new image will be consistent with Harlem's history. Some fear it could become a place its own residents do not recognize.
 
On the Street of Dreams, Dawn Brings Hopes and Fears
Barbara Askins, whose office is on 125th Street just down from the Apollo Theater, steps from behind her large desk and in crisp sentences lists the projects under way on that street. She sits in a chair that practically vibrates, so close is it to the heart of central Harlem. She is the president and chief executive of the 125th Street Business Improvement District, created by the city in 1993 to revive what was long known as "the street of dreams."
All day her phone rings with offers of business deals, inquiries from tour companies, questions about rentals and expressions of concern.
"The fears," she said, sighing. "Fear of big business coming in and taking over small business. The fear that 125th Street will start looking like Times Square. The fear that all the people will not look like the people of Harlem, that the Harlemites will be pushed out."
Asked if the fears are justified, she gazes out the window at a huge construction site across the street, where a 285,000-square-foot $66 million shopping plaza called Harlem U.S.A. is due to emerge by Christmas. It will house a Magic Johnson nine-screen multiplex, a Disney Store, an Old Navy and a branch of the New York Sports Club.
"It can become a reality," Ms. Askins said, answering somewhat indirectly. "But when you're in a growth period, everyone has to pick up the pace and get on the train and start heading to the destination."
The trouble is, no one knows what the destination will be. Despite years of meetings, negotiations and proposals, there is no single plan for Harlem. No central planning group has mapped out the neighborhood's future and discussed it with residents.
Nor, some say, could such an entity exist. Central Harlem is simply too large, with too many competing interests vying for control. Every level of government, Federal, state and city, is committing huge sums to development, as are development corporations, banks, housing organizations, local entrepreneurs and private investors, for a total of $900 million during the next five years.
So, while construction and economic development continues apace, everyone from Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who visited in July to encourage private investment, to the neighborhood shopkeeper eating fried chicken and waffles at Pan Pan's lunch counter at 135th Street and Lenox Avenue, is debating Harlem's fate.
 
From Hub to Emblem of Decay To an 'Urban Planner's Dream'
There may be no other section of New York whose name means so many things to so many people. It is one of the city's most popular tourist destinations, with its multilayered history part of the draw.
In the 18th century, it was a breezy summer getaway for wealthy city residents. In the late 19th century, it was home to Jewish and Irish immigrants escaping the tenements of the Lower East Side. From the 1920's through the Great Depression, it was a glittering magnet for writers, artists and performers, the hub of black America.
But during the next three decades it became an emblem of urban decay. By 1975, so much of the area had been abandoned by tenants and that 65 percent of all property in Harlem had fallen into the city's hands through abandonment and foreclosure.
The flight of middle-class residents, the crack epidemic and a seemingly endless stream of violent crimes made many shun what was left. Private investors and real estate developers could not be persuaded to take a chance on Harlem.
In 1977, Congress passed the Community Reinvestment Act, a law intended to halt redlining by requiring banks to lend in low-income areas.
Then, about 15 years ago, residents began to take stock. As the city prepared to auction off its property holdings in Harlem, Community Board 10, which covers central Harlem, intervened to stop the sale. Residents began to discuss their hopes for the neighborhood.
"We all sat down and we took blocks and lots and sat there and said, on this block we need a major tenant," said Ms. Askins of the 125th Street BID, who served on the community board then. "Because so much of the property here was in the hands of the city, it was like an urban planner's dream. It was wide open."
It wouldn't be wide open for long. Developers were starting to look at Harlem, too. Recognizing that the suburbs where corporations had long concentrated their energies were saturated with stores and services, companies were exploring low-income sections of America's cities.
Drew R. Greenwald, president of Grid Properties, one of the developers of Harlem U.S.A., said his group had begun looking at Harlem real estate in the mid-1980's because so much public and private investment was occurring there.
"The community looked different, people started to return," Mr. Greenwald said. "They tended to be professionals, and the median income doubled between 1980 and 1990. There were also a lot of immigrants in the community who had a higher earning potential."
That was good news for retailers. Before deciding on the Harlem U.S.A. project, Mr. Greenwald's company studied the area's income base and buying patterns. It found that the income density, the amount consumers earn in a certain area, is $868 million per square mile, twice that of most other sections of New York, because so many people live in close quarters. At the same time, the quality of life was improving, so retailers were feeling safer in Harlem, he said. One crucial indicator was crime rates. In the last five years, the homicide rate has dropped faster in Harlem (down 77 percent) than in the city as a whole (down 67 percent), the police say.
The flint intended to spark the fire was the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, which received $250 million in city, state and Federal money in 1994, along with a mandate: lend it all by 2004, to projects that would spur economic development. The organization has already allocated half the money, said the president, Terry C. Lane.
The new era, some say, began with a grocery store, not the most glamorous of projects but critical nonetheless. In April, Pathmark opened a $15 million 50,000-square-foot store at 125th Street and Lexington Avenue, the first major chain supermarket in Harlem in more than three decades.
Next came the groundbreaking for Harlem U.S.A., which has been trumpeted as the economic anchor that will hold the entire business district together. Neighborhood leaders say they expect the development to have a ripple effect.
Other developments are also expected to contribute. Time Warner has taken control of the board of the historic Apollo Theater and promises to revitalize it. The city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development has invested $271 million in renovating or building new homes and intends to invest $72 million more.
The Abyssinian Development Corporation, an arm of the Abyssinian Baptist Church and one of many local development groups with their own projects, is rehabilitating 33 brownstones in central Harlem.
Historic sites like the Art Deco Lenox Lounge and the Renaissance Ballroom are being restored or renovated.
Housing developments with ground-floor commercial space are under construction, including Strivers Gardens at 135th Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard and the Renaissance Plaza at 116th Street and Lenox Avenue. On easternmost 125th Street, the Washburn Wire Factory will become East River Plaza, a shopping center with Manhattan's first Home Depot and Costco stores. Planning is under way for the Harlem Piers, a long-neglected stretch along the Hudson River.
All these projects are coordinated by partnerships in which the public sector typically subsidizes private development.
 
The Mystique Is There, But Whose Harlem Is It?
The ingredient that will sustain economic renewal in Harlem, Mr. Greenwald said, is the interest in the area. "The mystique was always there with Harlem, even in its decline," he said. "As it comes back, I think people are really going to be rooting for it, like a team that was the underdog for many years and is now winning."
But if the people of Harlem were the underdogs, are they now the winners? Some think not.
"The people who are benefiting now are the people who once abandoned Harlem," said Lloyd A. Williams, president and chief executive of the Greater Harlem Chamber of Commerce and an outspoken critic of current plans. "They are the ones who turned it into slums. Those people are being encouraged now to come back and acquire properties, and they're getting a lot of tax breaks and subsidies to do it.
"The people who are benefiting are the external retailers who are being encouraged by the market, and who will take money out of the community. They are the people in the tourism industry who drive tourists through but they don't get off the bus. They are the elected officials who are standing for photo opportunities and ribbon cuttings. In the final analysis, it's not the average Harlemites who are benefiting."
If the market in Harlem is so promising, he asks, why do large corporations like Pathmark and the Gap need government subsidies? The reason, he suggests, is that the people making decisions -- city agencies, private housing developers, public-private partnerships -- have no permanent stake in Harlem. Whether black or white, whether recent arrivals or outsiders, most are not Harlemites, he said.
But who is a Harlemite? How long must one live in the neighborhood to qualify? Does a Harlemite have to be black? No, Mr. Williams said. But he said many of the people who are making decisions now only know three things about Harlem: 125th Street, Sylvia's Restaurant and the Apollo. "It's ignorance leading ignorance," he said.
Others say the issue is the image Harlem will project. There is much more to the identity of Harlem than those cultural touchstones, said Michael Henry Adams, a Harlem historian and preservationist, a fact that many of those directing the economic renaissance ignore. He is one of many residents unhappy with the new image.
"They're demolishing Harlem and putting up something that looks like a cross between Las Vegas and Paramus, N.J.," he said. "And if people come to Harlem to see Harlem, and it's not Harlem, they'll leave."
That concern is shared by Barbara Ann Teer, who founded the National Black Theater and this year helped organize the Harlem Strategic Cultural Collaborative, which includes the theater; the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, and the Studio Museum. "If they are about conserving the culture, every time they mention Disney they should mention the National Black Theater," Dr. Teer said.
Her 31-year-old company, which owns a building at 125th Street and Fifth Avenue, has debts that could force it to close. Her organization has been promised support from the empowerment zone and elsewhere, but nothing has materialized. She watches unhappily as corporate enterprises arrive to considerable attention and support.
"You can go to Orlando and get Disney, you can go to Paris and get Disney," Dr. Teer said. "Why Harlem? It's a cultural war, and as far as I'm concerned, we don't have the resources to fight back."
Even Councilman Bill Perkins, who represents central Harlem and who has participated in his share of ribbon cuttings, has his doubts. Opening the blinds in his office in the State Office Building on 125th Street, once heralded as the anchor that would revitalize Harlem, he stares down at an empty shop at 125th and Frederick Douglass Boulevard. It used to be Freddy's, where in 1995 residents demonstrated to demand a boycott of stores run by outsiders.
Mr. Perkins says he wants to make sure that the people who stuck it out in Harlem through its long winter will be able to smell the flowers in its spring. It won't be easy.
"Historically, what's been missing in the legacy of Harlem is ownership," he said. "We live here, but we don't own it. There's a feeling that we've been here so long we should have a piece of it.
"Part of what you're seeing out here is very interesting and exciting, because probably now more than ever before, this community can be owned by the people who live here. But you're talking about an opportunity that is quickly disappearing. And money and power are not gifts. So the question is, will it happen?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: 125th Street, the neighborhood's traditional "street of dreams." Many residents are uneasy about the pace and nature of change. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)(pg. 1); New developments include Harlem U.S.A., a 285,000-square-foot shopping plaza at 125th Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard, to open by Christmas. (Skidmore Owings & Merrill, Simmons Architects); Women on 125th Street near Lenox Avenue after church services on a recent Sunday. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Central Harlem"
 
The neighborhood encompasses an area of 899 acres bounded by 110th Street to the south, the Harlem River to the north, Fifth Avenue to the east and St. Nicholas Avenue to the west.
 
Population -- 108,761
 
Race
Black (non-Hispanic): 82.4 percent
White (non-Hispanic): 1.4 percent
Hispanic: 10.3 percent
Other: 5.9 percent
 
Unemployment
Central Harlem -- 9.8 percent
Citywide -- 5.5 percent
 
Median household income
Central Harlem -- $20,000
Citywide -- $30,000
 
(Source: Sociology Department of Queens College, based on 1996 housing and vacancy survey by New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.)(pg. 12)
 
Map of Harlem: "In the Works"
Ssites of some major commercial and residential projects in central Harlem:
 
STRIVERS GARDENS
The Greater Harlem Chamber of Comerce, the city and local development gorups are planning a tower withe 180 apartments and 40,000 square feet of retail space.
 
HARLEM U.S.A.
A consortium of developers is building a 285,000-square-foot retail and entertainment center containing a Disney Store and a multiplex cinema.
 
UNITED ARTISTS/BLUMENFELD PROJECT
David Blumenfeld, a Long Island developer, is proposing a shopping center with a 10-screen multiplex United Artists Cinema Theater.
 
GATEWAY VENTURES
DDM Development of East Harlem is planning a 27,000-square-foot two-floor retail development including a Duane Reade and a Seaman furniture store.
 
HARLEM CENTER
The Abyssinian Development Corporation, an arm of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, and Forest City Ratner are planning a 250,000-square-foot commercial and retail center.
 
HARLEM PATHMARK
The first chain supermarket in the neighborhood in more than three decades, the 50,000-square-foot store opened April 15.
 
FREDERICK DOUGLASS BOULEVARD REDESIGN
The Manhattan Borough President's office is planning a redesign of the avenue.
 
RENAISSANCE PLAZA
A public-private partnership is building an 11-story building with 241 units of housing and 60,000 square feet of retail space. Next door will be the Shabazz Gardens Partnership New Homes, a large complex of family homes, with a new vendor's market nearby. (pg.12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); WRITERS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CHRISTMAS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); TOURISM (51%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



581 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
In Home Ownership Data, A Hidden Generation Gap

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
RISING home ownership is billed as one of the great rewards of America's economic boom. And so it is: The percentage of households that live in their own homes has never been greater. But examine that touted superlative closely, and these gilded years come into more sober focus.
Of the nation's 103 million households, 66.6 percent occupy homes owned by a member of the household. A chief ingredient of the American dream is on track, statistically. The breakthrough came early last year, when persistent home-buying everywhere in the country finally carried the home ownership rate past the old record of 65.8 percent, set in 1980. Households in every age group have gained ground since 1995, when the boom years really got rolling. 
 Go back only that far, and the economy has indeed lifted all boats, to invoke an overworked metaphor. But go back to the early 1980's and a less sanguine story emerges. Households headed by older Americans, it turns out, have carried the ball. Without them, there would be no record. In every age group under 55, home ownership remains below where it was in the early 1980's. Lifting all boats turns out to be the wrong metaphor; bailing them out is more appropriate.
"That is really the story of the 1990's in general," said Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Most people "are still getting back to where they once were, and they are not back there yet."
For all who believe they see in the current prosperity a new era of greater well-being, history is a useful antidote -- in this case, the history of home ownership. It became widespread only after World War II, when a booming economy, rising incomes, plentiful jobs and the miracle of low-interest 30-year mortgages set off an explosion of suburban construction and home ownership.
THE people who are over 55 today bought in that era. Their parents had been renters more than owners, so, naturally, as the children have aged and have replaced their parents in the Census Bureau's statistics, the rate of home ownership among older Americans has risen smartly.
"They bought before the affordability crunch, and it is just gravy for them," said William Apgar, Assistant Secretary for housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Not so for today's under-55 generation. They got into home ownership in a big way starting in the mid-1970's, just as home prices and mortgage interest rates began to rise. Recession, rising unemployment and stagnant wages threw up more obstacles. By the early 1980's, the percentage of American households living in owner-occupied homes had peaked -- and then declined steadily for more than a decade.
Affordability was not the only issue. The proliferation of single-parent households contributed to the trend. So did the tendency toward later marriage. "The predisposition of nonmarried people is to rent," said Nancy McCardle, a research analyst at Harvard's Joint Center on Housing Studies. But affordability is the big issue. Even among married couples in the under-44 age group -- encompassing the most important home-buying years -- the rate of homeownership is not quite back to its 1982 level of 82 percent.
The trends are similar among minority groups. The home ownership rate among blacks, for example, has risen to 45.8 percent from 42 percent in 1993, a considerable increase. The Clinton Administration calls plenty of attention to this growth, whose time frame coincides with the Clinton Presidency. But black households have recovered only the ground lost since 1983, when the rate was 45.6 percent. Viewed historically, blacks are, like so many others, running in place.
Or behind the curve: Homeowners today are much more highly leveraged than 15 years ago. Then, a down payment equal to 15 percent of a home's price was common; now 5 percent or less is more the norm, even to qualify for Government-backed mortgages. "These are the best of times, but how can you reach out to more people when down-payments are already close to zero and both spouses are working and trying to earn all that they can," said Eric Belsky, executive director of the Harvard Center.
Low mortgage interest rates have contributed mightily to the revival in ownership, keeping homes affordable despite rising prices. Still, owning a home is increasingly a wedge separating low-income Americans from more prosperous households, even those only moderately better off. Among homeowners, the median household income (half earn more, half less) has risen to nearly $46,000, up 16 percent since 1982, after adjusting for inflation. Home ownership has lately become too expensive for those with less than $25,000 in annual income, many experts say. More than 30 percent of all households fall into that category.
Therein lies a problem for democracy. Study after study has shown that homeowners are much more active in their communities than renters. "Owning a home gets you rooted in a place," Mr. Jencks said. "You find yourself caring about the community, the politics, the schools, the appearance of your neighborhood. You go to more meetings and what happens at those meetings matters more. By and large, these are good things. They are the American way." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD CENTER (70%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD CENTER (70%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); RECESSION (74%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); CENSUS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



582 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Robert E. Kern;
Fremont U.S. Micro-Cap Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
ON weekends, Robert E. Kern cultivates lima beans, beets and potatoes in the garden behind his country home in northeastern Pennsylvania. During the week in Manhattan, as portfolio manager of the $237.3 million Fremont U.S. Micro-Cap fund, he tills a different field: some of the smallest publicly traded companies.
While his agricultural endeavors have suffered from the extremes of this year's weather, his stock-picking has yielded a bumper crop. The fund was up 122.1 percent in the 12 months ended Sept. 17 and 56.3 percent in 1999 alone. 
 Longer term, Fremont U.S. Micro-Cap has returned 25.1 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Sept. 17, compared with 11.1 percent for its small-growth peers, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher.
Mr. Kern, 63, credits the success of the fund -- advised by Fremont Investment Advisors, an affiliate of the giant Bechtel Corporation of San Francisco -- to a relentless focus on companies with new kinds of products, services or technology.
"Our investment philosophy is growth -- but importantly, within growth, a focus on innovative growth companies," he said from his midtown Manhattan office. "These are concentrated mostly in the economic sectors where the level of innovation is the highest -- in technology, health care, consumer and service companies."
In choosing stocks, he starts with 5,100 companies with market capitalizations of $10 million to $500 million, a traditionally volatile group. He whittles those down to fewer than 1,000 by screening for annual revenue growth of at least 20 percent. "We also like to see increasing profitability," he added.
Special attention is paid to gross profit margins. "High margins tell you if a company is able to price goods and services on a value-added basis, as opposed to commodity pricing," he said, "and how much money is left over for research and development, sales and marketing to enter new markets and expand existing markets."
He also scrutinizes the market prospects of companies' clients and customers. "If you find companies that serve other companies with very large potential markets, that certainly gives them the opportunity to grow at a very rapid rate," he said.
Mr. Kern says he is a firm believer in the old saw that the success of small companies is determined by their executives' mettle. He figures that he and his two senior investment managers (one of whom is his son, David, 35), along with the fund's two analysts, spend a quarter to a third of their time evaluating management.
"Especially in microcaps, which have limited resources, it's important to see how management is focusing on the best opportunities for future growth," he said.
To arrive at the 60 to 75 stocks that the fund usually holds, Mr. Kern distills figures like projected earnings growth and comes up with his most important number for a company -- its enterprise value, or what it would be worth to someone seeking to acquire it whole. He generally likes to buy stocks that are trading at some discount to enterprise value, but he declined to say how much of a discount.
HE likes Netopia, an Alameda, Calif., company that provides fast Internet access to small businesses over digital modems. These are marketed by local exchange carriers, the phone companies created to compete with the Baby Bells. Netopia also creates Web sites that can be customized by business owners. Company management shifted its focus several years ago to these two areas, "both of which we think are excellent," he said.
He bought shares in March at $20 each; Netopia closed on Friday at $33.625, or 67 percent of his estimate of its enterprise value. He expects Netopia's revenue in fiscal 1999 to be $42 million, a figure that he thinks could double in the next 12 to 18 months. Mr. Kern also thinks Netopia will post its first profit in the fourth quarter.
Another favorite is Photon Dynamics, a maker of equipment used to test flat-panel computer and TV screens. Production of flat-panel displays has risen sharply, Mr. Kern said, and Photon's sole competitor is a Japanese company. "I believe Photon will gain market share, especially in the rapidly growing Taiwan market, because of the advanced technology in its testing equipment," he said.
He bought shares of Photon, based in San Jose, Calif., at an average of $7 a share last fall. He projects annualized revenues of $50 million in the September quarter and a three-year annual earnings growth rate of 40 to 50 percent. The stock now trades at $19.875, or 57 percent of his estimate of enterprise value.
Mr. Kern began buying Adept Technology, also based in San Jose, at its 1996 initial public offering, only to sell the stock, at a profit, in the midst of the 1997-98 Asian economic crisis. The company makes robots used for materials handling and other industrial applications.
He bought Adept stock again late last year, at $7 a share. The stock closed on Friday at $7.625, or 38 percent of his estimate of enterprise value.
Adept has entered the business of making robots for the semiconductor equipment industry, doubling its potential market, Mr. Kern said. "We think there's an excellent opportunity for Adept to gain significant business, because of the increased demand for more reliable and higher-quality robots," he added. He figured that revenues could grow more than 20 percent annually over the next three years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A money manager with an eye for small, fast-growing companies, Robert E. Kern puts a strong emphasis on users of new technologies. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Freemont U.S. Micro-Cap"
Category: Small growth
Net assets: $237.3 million
Inception: June 1994
Manager: Robert E. Kern (since inception)
Minimum purchase: $2,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 172%
3-year annualized return through Sept.: 1725.1%
Category average: 11.1%
 
Sector breakdown
 
Industrial cyclicals: 12.7%
Services: 18.1%
Health: 10.8%
Technology: 42.1%
Other: 16.3%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 1.94%
 
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (69%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FREEMONT U S MICRO-CAP BECHTEL GROUP INC (69%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); FREMONT INVESTMENT ADVISORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREEMONT U S MICRO-CAP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS COMPANY PROFITS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (68%); 

PERSON: KERN, ROBERT E; GOULD, CAROLE ROBERT E KERN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



583 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2811 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Formula Fight: A Generic Vs. the Giants

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
JENNA PAXTON is an educated consumer. Never, before last year, had she hesitated to toss a store-brand food into her shopping cart to shave her grocery bill. Like many Americans, she buys cheaper generic drugs instead of the brand names, too.
But during a routine trip last year down aisle 16A of an H.E.B. supermarket in Austin, Tex., she hesitated at buying a product she had never thought of before: generic infant formula.
The idea of saving $3 a can piqued her interest. Still, her first child, Aaron, had started out on Similac, the national brand known to generations of parents. And when her second son, Cameron, was born, she stayed loyal. 
 She studied the yellow label on the store-brand formula, Ms. Paxton remembered, and concluded that the ingredients were identical. Still wary, she bought a can and took it to the doctor's office where she is an administrative assistant. The doctor agreed that it appeared to contain the same ingredients as the name-brand formulas.
"I questioned it, most definitely," Ms. Paxton said. "But that was strictly because it was a brand I hadn't heard of before."
Few people have. Across the country, supermarkets and drug stores are just beginning to stock generic baby formulas. But the economics makes them promising. For retailers accustomed to selling brand-name formulas for little or no profit, the generics represent a potential cash cow. For new parents, they represent substantial savings.
Even so, Ms. Paxton is not the only one who is nervous. Pediatricians have fundamental concerns about lower-priced formula -- whether it will cost them industry-backed research funds, for example, or whether it will persuade more mothers to turn away from breast-feeding.
And the makers of brand-name formulas -- Enfamil, from the Mead Johnson Nutritionals unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb, is the market leader, followed by Similac, from the Ross Laboratories unit of Abbott Laboratories -- must worry about this latest threat to their business, which has been tarred by accusations of price-fixing and condemnations of the formula makers' exports to the developing world.
The formula makers have nurtured intense brand loyalty through aggressive giveaways to new parents and pediatricians, along with big rebates to state welfare programs. Their message is simple, if vague, and it can be found in doctors' offices everywhere, on leaflets like one distributed by Ross Laboratories: "All infant formulas are not the same."
In fact, though, the Food and Drug Administration requires that all formulas, including generics, meet the same rigid nutritional requirements and contain virtually identical ingredients. While the manufacturers are constantly tinkering, advances cannot be patented. So this seems like a marketplace ripe for an upstart that is ready to strip away the fancy marketing and sell formula for less.
That, indeed, is how the marketer of the yellow cans on Ms. Paxton's grocery store shelf presents himself. In 18 months, Paul B. Manning, 44, the founder of PBM Products in Gordonsville, Va., has made just a tiny dent in the $1.9 billion American retail market for formula: sales are running at $30 million a year. But Mr. Manning says that is just a start for his product, sold under store brands and under the names Babymil and Babysoy.
"Anything that has large barriers to entry or difficult markets -- if you're willing to put the effort in -- offers up the biggest opportunities," Mr. Manning said.
But the story is more complicated than the David-and-Goliath match of Mr. Manning's generics versus Similac and Enfamil, which still command 86 percent of the American market, according to A. C. Nielsen, a market research firm.
Cans of generic formula do not bear the name PBM Products. Instead, they name the manufacturer, Wyeth Nutritionals, a division of American Home Products, the global medical company that pulled out of the domestic formula business in 1996 but remains the second-ranked seller of formula worldwide.
After Wyeth withdrew from the American market, Mr. Manning offered to buy its factory. His plan was to keep SMA and Nursoy, Wyeth's flagship formulas, on the market as midpriced products and to introduce lower-priced powdered formula in generic packaging as well. Instead, Wyeth agreed to supply Mr. Manning in an arrangement that is for the moment exclusive.
Now, he must persuade pediatricians and family practitioners -- as well as parents -- that his no-name formula is good enough for America's infants. His plan is to take on the name brands directly.
"We're going to bring the message to the mothers," he said. "We really believe that parents will be shocked when they find out how overpriced Similac and Enfamil are."
 
'Scientific Parenting'
Introduced in the United States in 1911, infant formula became wildly popular in the 1930's and 40's as new mothers sought to raise their children by the methods prescribed in so-called scientific parenting manuals. By 1970, fewer than one-fourth of American infants were breast-fed, according to figures collected by Ross Laboratories that also counted as breast-fed any babies who received both formula and breast milk.
As early as 1952, however, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an article describing the health benefits of breast milk. By 1979, when a Carter Administration commission listed the promotion of breast-feeding as a national health goal, the breast-feeding rate had rebounded to 50 percent. It peaked at 62 percent in 1981 before starting another decline; the latest figure is 59.7 percent.
By 1981, the formula market was controlled by a handful of companies, and the economics of the market was distorted by the fact that the Federal Government was by far the biggest customer.
Half of all formula sold in the United States went to parents in the federally financed, state-administered Women, Infants and Children nutrition program, which distributes coupons to buy household basics in grocery stores, and which continued to subsidize formula use despite the Government policy in favor of breast-feeding. Starting in 1980, formula makers raised their prices 18 times in 13 years, for a total of 207 percent, court records later revealed -- almost three times the overall inflation rate.
The industry's troubles with the Government began in August 1986, when the Tennessee W.I.C. program asked the formula makers to cut their prices through rebates and other states followed quickly. Ross Laboratories and Mead Johnson offered rebates of around 20 cents a can. But Wyeth raised eyebrows with offers like one in Florida: a $1.01-a-can rebate on formula for which the state had been paying $1.28.
Such episodes led retailers -- joined in Florida by the state Attorney General -- to accuse the formula makers of antitrust violations in the early 1990's, contending that there was a secret scheme to raise prices in lockstep. Ross, Mead Johnson and Wyeth settled a series of lawsuits in 1992 and 1993, with the companies reportedly paying a total of $230 million but admitting no wrongdoing.
After the smoke of the lawsuits cleared, the General Accounting Office studied whether the companies were using price increases in the retail market to subsidize the W.I.C. rebates. In a 1998 report, the G.A.O. said that to subsidize the losses in W.I.C. sales, retail prices should have climbed four times as much as they did from 1989 to 1996. The fact that they did not persuaded the Government auditors that the formula business was already highly rewarding for the manufacturers.
"The wholesale prices of infant formula appear to be high in relation to the cost of production," the report concluded, "indicating the likelihood of high profit margins and the associated possibility of significant rebates."
Other critics of the industry say bluntly that the mark-up on formula was and is excessive. "Formula prices were ridiculously sky-high," said Kiran Saluja, chairman of a committee of the National Association of W.I.C. Directors, which promotes breast-feeding. "Basically, formula is cow's milk that you monkey around with a little bit."
Formula makers, of course, dispute that view. That "monkeying around" costs a lot of money, they say -- and makes formula much more digestible than cow's milk, or any other alternative to breast milk.
Asked if formula is overpriced, Peter J. Paradossi, a spokesman for Mead Johnson, replied, "We feel it's a bargain."
"It's three bucks a day," he said. "It's less than a Happy Meal. At no time during a baby's life can you feed a child all the nutrition it needs for that little."
 
A Generic Opportunity
Today, half of the infant formula business still consists of W.I.C. contracts, but the math has changed. For the companies, the welfare program has become a money-losing proposition, but one that guarantees shelf space and credibility. Plus, many parents veer in and out of the program; during periods when they pay cash, they often stick with whichever formula has been recommended by state health workers.
Mr. Manning, however, did a little math of his own and concluded that the economics were not as unfavorable as the big companies maintained. In effect, he found that a baby could be fed for less than the price of a small order of french fries, let alone a whole meal at McDonald's.
He knew the economic power of no-name products from 20 years of marketing generic prescription drugs through Able Labs, a South Plainfield, N.J., company that he sold for $20 million in 1992. Once a drug's patent expired, he could sell a generic equivalent for a tiny fraction of the brand-name product's price, and still make a tidy profit.
And the formula business, he quickly learned, was even more attractive, with no patents to worry about, plenty of manufacturing capacity in the form of Wyeth's factories -- and a ready customer base.
"The retailers in the United States had really wanted someone to introduce a formula," Mr. Manning said.
Here is why: The national brands sell for $8.99 to $11.99 for a 16-ounce can, usually just a few pennies above the grocers' wholesale cost, which varies widely. Mr. Manning's generic formula sells at retail for $6.58 to $7.99, with a wholesale price that hovers around $6. When parents buy the generic formula, they save money -- and the stores earn bigger profits.
Why the huge difference in wholesale prices? According to Mr. Manning, it represents selling and administrative expenses -- not, as his larger competitors would have it, research and development costs. "We don't have 500 sales people out selling to pediatricians," he said.
Yet retailers say that, despite the savings, customers have been slow to embrace Mr. Manning's product. "It didn't respond as quickly as we thought it was going to," said Kari Caruso, brand manager for Albertsons, the Boise, Idaho-based grocery chain that began selling PBM's products in 1997. "I think it's a category that's going to take a long process of educating new moms."
In marketers' parlance, "educating" is a form of selling. With generic formula, that means stores using brochures and newspaper advertisements to inform customers that, as far as nutrition is concerned, all infant formulas are the same. (Other major retailers that sell generic formula include A & P, Safeway, Vons, Finast, Tom Thumb, Copps and Wegman's Food Market.)
But the market leaders have spent decades building their ties to pediatricians and new parents -- and building the mystique of their brands. The formula makers rely mainly on "ethical marketing," a concept that includes maintaining Web sites and phone lines to answer parents' questions, sponsoring seminars and conferences for pediatricians and showering doctors and new parents with gifts.
"We do promote our products primarily through the health care professionals," Roland Tuley, a spokesman for Mead Johnson, said. "Sales reps call on pediatricians. They're out there in those offices every day." And it is a two-way street, he said, since physicians' counsel helps in development of improved formulas.
In the last few years, the companies have begun advertising in parenting magazines and on TV following a Federal Trade Commission lawsuit that led to a somewhat paradoxical 1993 agreement. While formula makers -- in this case, Ross, Mead Johnson and Wyeth -- did not admit to having conspired to ban consumer advertising in the past, they pledged that they would not conspire to avoid advertising in the future.
In any event, many families are loyal to Similac or Enfamil for generations. And while the companies are careful to chant the pediatricians' mantra -- that breast milk is best -- they routinely send new mothers home from the hospital with diaper bags filled with cans of formula.
Mr. Manning's enterprise turns on the belief that when those diaper bags are empty and new parents go to the grocery store, the price of his product will catch their eye. So PBM is advertising in parenting magazines, too.
He also expects that nervous parents will, like Ms. Paxton, take the product to their pediatricians. That is why Mr. Manning will be at the American Academy of Pediatricians conference next month in Washington.
"Their stronghold is the pediatric office," Mr. Manning said of his competition. "We're going to hit the pediatricians hard." Not with 500 sales people, but with ads in medical journals and meetings with doctors.
 
For Doctors, Familiar Worries
All of this troubles some doctors, who believe that breast-feeding faces more than enough competition already. Pediatricians want parents to consult with them on infant nutrition, and they fear that developments like the big companies' television ads and formula marketed on the basis of price make parents feel more confident in making those decisions alone.
Doctors also worry that the rise of generic formulas could deplete funds for research. Formula studies are performed by the manufacturers internally and through grants to doctors, hospitals and the American Academy of Pediatricians.
"Marketing of generic formulas will drive the cost of formula down," said Dr. Michael Georgieff, a professor of pediatrics and child development at the University of Minnesota. "There will be no incentive for research and design."
So far, that has not been the case. Last year, Abbott, Mead Johnson and Wyeth all augmented their formulas with nucleotides, the molecules that compose nucleic acids like DNA and that are found in breast milk. Mead Johnson takes credit for that innovation. So does Abbott. On behalf of his supplier, Wyeth, so does Mr. Manning, who adds that worries about generics cutting into research dollars are unfounded.
"That's the same comment the pharmaceutical companies made back in the 80's," he said. "It's a great thing to tell the pediatricians -- 'we won't have money to do research and development.' It's absolutely not true."
Perhaps the most significant worry is that if Mr. Manning's generic formula is a big success, brand-name formula makers will have less revenue to subsidize the development of special products for babies with various disorders that prevent them from digesting standard formulas.
Abbott sells 23 different special formulas -- like Phenex, for babies with phenylketonuria, a metabolic disorder found in one of every 10,000 births that keeps infants from absorbing the amino acid phenylalinine. Mead Johnson markets 25 varieties.
While many doctors agree that there is no difference -- other than price -- among the basic versions of Similac, Enfamil and Babymil for a healthy child like Ms. Paxton's son, the generic formula comes in only two varieties, milk-based and soy-based.
"God forbid should you have a child who can't digest protein," said Bill Wolfson, spokesman for Ross Laboratories. "You can't go to generic companies for help."
Mr. Manning said he was considering sales of generic versions of specialized formulas from Wyeth, which makes five varieties for sale outside the United States. While there is little profit in it, he said, he will provide the specialized products if retailers ask for them.
Mr. Manning's road to riches is bound to be bumpy. Wyeth concluded that it could not compete in the formula business in the United States. Nestle, bigger yet, has been able to win only a tenth of the American retail market for its Carnation-brand formulas after a decade of trying.
But he is prepared to be patient. After all, this is a man who, when he was in the generic drug business, set up a lawn chair in the F.D.A.'s lobby to wait out approval of a medication. Now, Mr. Manning says that for him to score big, his giant competitors just need to keep doing business the way they always have.
"Abbott made the opportunity," he said. "It's truly an unbelievable situation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul B. Manning, who built a business selling generic drugs, saw a similar opportunity in the baby formula market. He spoke to an 11-month-old prospect, Caroline Lee of Waynesboro, Va., and her mother, Teresa, at a Wal-Mart in Charlottesville, Va. (Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times)(pg. 12); (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Reading the Fine Print"
Generic baby formula like the Albertsons house brand show below can cost $3 a can less than Engamil and Similac, the leading national brands. But Federal regulations require that formulas' ingredients be quite similar. (pg. 13)
 
Graph: "Baby Steps"
Stores are just beginning to stock generic baby formula next to well-known names like Similac and Enfamil - brands that parents have depended on for generations.
 
BABY FORMULA MARKET SHARE
The graph shows the share of 8-ounce servings for total domestic infants and toddlers. (Source: A.C. Nielsen via Mead Johnson)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (83%); ABT (NYSE) (83%); ABT (LSE) (83%); ABL (FRA) (83%); MJN (NYSE) (81%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (83%); MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION CO (81%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); ABBOTT NUTRITION (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INFANT FORMULAS; GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS GENERIC PRODUCTS (91%); BRANDING (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); INFANT FORMULA (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); DRY & CONDENSED DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (89%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); BREASTFEEDING (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); PARENTING (71%); MAMMALS (70%); PRICE FIXING (50%); 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL PAUL B MANNING (82%); JENNA PAXTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



584 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Getting Tough Gets Tough for Australia

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia

 BODY:
FOR more than two decades, Australia has been trying to promote itself as part of Asia. Now, in East Timor, it has found out how unnerving that concept can be when put to the test.
Having led the charge to intervene and having taken command of the international peace keeping force in East Timor, this easy-going, underpopulated, high-living country is having to ponder the cost. Three questions seem to be on everyone's mind: 
 How can Australia intervene in East Timor, even with the reluctant acquiescence of the Indonesian Government, and still maintain friendly relations with Indonesia, its closest Asian neighbor?
How much can Australia still depend on the United States, its big brother ally of the last 50 years, having seen Washington send only a token force to help out in East Timor?
And now that Washington has deputized it to do the neighborhood policing job, does Australia have the political and financial wherewithal to follow through on its own?
For Australia, which has an army of only 24,000 soldiers -- about the same number the Indonesian Army had in East Timor alone -- these are milestone questions.
Sure, Australia sent soldiers to the battlefields of World War II, to Korea and Vietnam and lately to the Persian Gulf war. But those soldiers were dispatched with alacrity, with everyone understanding that the post-1945 commitments were an investment in an alliance that the United States was leading. This time, Australia is carrying the big burden.
Since the early 1970's, when Australia lifted a so-called White Australia policy that had strictly limited Asian immigration, successive Governments have tried to position Australia to be with Asia rather than against it, if always under the umbrella of American security.
In particular, Australia cozied up to Indonesia, the world's fourth most populous nation and its closest neighbor. In 1975, it ignored the East Timor independence movement and instead endorsed the Indonesian takeover of the territory after the Portuguese colonial government left. That made Australia the only country to formally recognize the invasion, although the United States, which also favored Indonesia's anti-Communist Government, did not object.
Then, with the idea of building its own strategic solidarity with Indonesia, the Australian Government went on to help train the Indonesian Army, including -- to its current embarrassment -- some of its feared security forces. In 1995, Australia thought it was cementing its ties by signing a defense treaty with Jakarta.
BUT there was a problem with the East Timor policy all along, and it became apparent as complaints of Indonesian brutality there persisted. Australians, who tend to sympathize with underdogs anyway, have long had a special sympathy for the East Timorese, who in World War II helped Australian soldiers trapped in Timor's mountains during the fight against the Japanese. Moreover, the East Timorese, most of whom are Roman Catholic, have forged strong bonds with the Catholic Church in Australia.
So after Indonesia's longtime dictator, Suharto, was forced from office by popular upheaval last year, Australia's conservative Prime Minister, John Howard, wrote to the new Indonesian leader, B. J. Habibie, and suggested that Indonesia sponsor a referendum for East Timor's autonomy.
The Howard Government was surprised when Mr. Habibie went a step further and decided to hold a referendum for independence, which many in the West, including the Australian Defense Ministry, believed would lead to bloodshed.
But the Australians and the United States held their breaths and hoped for the best, even when the Indonesians refused to accept a peacekeeping force in East Timor during the preparations for the ballot.
Then, after the referendum produced a landslide for independence, the Australian Government was taken aback by the killings of civilians and the scorched earth tactics of the Indonesian Army and militias.
But when the Australians decided to get tough, they were also taken aback by Washington.
Mr. Howard said Australia could not stand by as East Timor burned, and he said American troops should operate alongside Australians in East Timor. What he heard in response was sobering. "If you thought the Pentagon was not keen to go to Kosovo, you should have seen their reaction to going to East Timor," said one Australian official.
The American national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, went so far as to point out publicly that the United States had fought in Kosovo because it was in Europe "I think we have to recognize that Indonesia is in Asia," he said. So Washington has committed just 200 troops for the operation, most of them for logistics, and only 100 for East Timor itself. It was hardly the commitment Australia had in mind.
An optimist might find a good side to this. Australia won points in Washington because it was setting a precedent that was comfortable for the Americans: It was leading a regional peacekeeping force, sent in harmony with American policy, that did not require the use of American muscle itself. That contrasts with the reluctance of Britain and France to commit troops to Balkan peacekeeping operations unless Americans were alongside on the ground.
"Unlike the Europeans, who were reluctant to go into Kosovo, the Australians showed themselves to be adults and to take part in adult supervision," said Douglas Paal, a member of the Bush Administration's National Security Council who now heads the Asia Pacific Policy Center, a Washington research institute. "The Australians were not waiting for Uncle Sam. That's the kind of alliance partners we want."
FROM the Australian point of view, such praise was small consolation, and the slow and small response of the United States felt more like a coming-of-age lesson. After World War II, Australians turned away from Britain and toward the United States as their new natural ally in the Pacific. Washington put defense and intelligence installations in Australia and the two countries exchanged sensitive information freely. The conventional wisdom here was that similar values of democracy, free enterprise and a sunny optimism bonded the Australians and the Americans.
Actually, they do. But now Australians have been told, in effect, that the bond is not a free one. With defense spending at the equivalent of less than $10 billion -- only 1.8 percent of the gross domestic product -- the commitment to East Timor of 2,000 soldiers -- to rise to 4,500 in coming weeks --- is more than the current military budget can bear, Australia's preeminent defense analyst, Paul Dibbs, said. Last week, Australia started to call up reservists.
But the biggest cost of the East Timor commitment for Australia will likely be its long-fostered relationship with Indonesia. It is now in tatters. During the recent crisis, Mr. Habibie refused to take a telephone call from Mr. Howard and last week the Indonesian Government scrapped the defense treaty. Australian businesses have become targets for vandals in Indonesia.
As for the relationship with Washington, the ties will no doubt endure, but not with the same open-hearted enthusiasm from Down Under. Max Walsh, the editor in chief of The Bulletin, a weekly news magazine in Australia, wrote last week: "Timor has changed our world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a field hospital in Dili, East Timor, last week, an Australian soldier helped relieve the pain by playing the bagpipes. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (98%); AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (53%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (53%); INDONESIAN ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDONESIAN ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; AUSTRALIA; EAST TIMOR; INDONESIA (98%); AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); KOREAN WAR (72%); POLITICS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE JOHN HOWARD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



585 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Diagnosing Al Gore's Problem;
You May or May Not Have Clinton Fatigue

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON made an extraordinary confession at an intimate dinner with a handful of his biggest fund-raisers at the Hay Adams Hotel across from the White House last week: The American people are tired of him and of his Administration.
Sounding more like an outsider seeking the White House than a fixture there for seven years, Mr. Clinton asked rhetorically: "Do we need a change? The answer is, yes we do." 
 Mr. Clinton was making a case for the elevation of his Vice President, Al Gore. But in doing so, he broached a notion articulated mostly by Republicans, but also by Democrats, that a "Clinton fatigue" has infected American politics. And while Mr. Clinton did not use the phrase itself, he might as well have when he explained the "great challenge" for Mr. Gore: "People think at election time they're supposed to vote for change."
Clinton fatigue is essentially a catch-all to describe a general sense that people have had enough of Bill Clinton. It was bound to happen. He has pulled the public through an excruciating journey of scandals. The most distasteful was the Monica Lewinsky matter, of course, but new ones seem to keep cropping up all the time: The fracas over Puerto Rican terrorists one day; the Russian money-laundering imbroglio the next.
With the explosion of 24-hour news on television and the Internet, Mr. Clinton has been more in the face of Americans than any of his predecessors. The Clintons, still craving the spotlight, do not seem to have learned the oldest trick in show business: Always leave them wanting more. Hillary Rodham Clinton's expected run for Senate from New York will keep the Clinton act on stage even longer.
"The history of this century shows this is really a unique phenomenon," said Michael Beschloss, the Presidential historian. "You have both the disquietude of the President in office plus the added element of him having been there all those years." He contended that while people would be uneasy about a third Clinton term, if he were allowed to run again, they would not have had such qualms with other two-term Presidents.
"There was no Eisenhower fatigue in 1960," Mr. Beschloss said. "He would have been elected to a third term by a huge landslide." Ronald Reagan might have been elected to a third term as well; many Republicans said they viewed President George Bush's tenure as the third term of the Reagan Administration.
OTHER modern Presidents were not as popular, perhaps not so much because of general fatigue but because of catastrophic events that undermined their Presidencies. President Lyndon B. Johnson, unable to climb out of the Vietnam War, did not dare seek re-election. President Richard M. Nixon did, but was soon forced from office by Watergate. Jimmy Carter was the beneficiary of Watergate fatigue, but could not survive the malaise of a foul economy and the Iranian hostage crisis when the sunnier Mr. Reagan came along.
Republicans are delighting in their diagnosis of Clinton fatigue. Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas said former Senator Bill Bradley has crept up on Mr. Gore in polls in some states because "he doesn't have the baggage of the Clinton Presidency around his neck."
Yet the ferment about fatigue may be overblown, stirred up by a restless press and pundits longing to begin the millennium with a fresh Presidential story line instead of what has seemed the inevitable faceoff between Mr. Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. In addition, critics of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore may find it easy to lump the Administration's troubles under the "fatigue" umbrella -- and try to drag Mr. Gore down with them.
Not surprisingly, Fred Steeper, the pollster for Governor Bush, the Republican front-runner, said: "Fatigue is too weak a concept to fit the public attitudes about the White House. I call it Clinton disgust."
Not every voter may be so disgusted. Polls show evidence of a Clinton fatigue, but one that is not particularly potent. Mr. Clinton's robust job approval ratings have barely budged.
And it is not entirely clear that Clinton fatigue is ailing Mr. Gore. In a Washington Post/ABC News Poll this month, 53 percent of respondents said they were "plain tired" of Mr. Clinton, but 45 percent disagreed with that statement. Respondents were evenly split over whether Mr. Gore was too close to the President "to provide the fresh start the country needs."
THE truth is, Mr. Gore may not be electrifying Democrats for reasons that have nothing to do with Mr. Clinton. It has always been a struggle for anyone in a President's shadow to develop a distinct persona early in a campaign.
And, as Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York said in his endorsement of Mr. Bradley last week, "We'd have to go back to Van Buren to find a Vice President who succeeded to the Presidency." He corrected himself after audience members reminded him that George Bush suceeded Ronald Reagan. Still, that is two Vice Presidents elected to succeed a President since 1836.
Asked about Clinton fatigue, Frank Newport, editor-in-chief of the Gallup Organization, said: "I scratch my head. It's an easy phrase to use. But I'm inclined to look more at the candidate, that Gore is doing poorly because of Gore."
Michael D. McCurry, Mr. Clinton's former press secretary, rejects the concept of Clinton fatigue because, he argued, the public is too disengaged to be fatigued.
"I don't understand how, suddenly, people have turned a switch in their head and said, 'I'm tired of Bill Clinton,' " he said. "They've spent seven years with this President. He's not in their face because most people are checked out."
Indeed, the characteristics that people say trouble them about Mr. Clinton -- notably his morals -- do not trouble them about Mr. Gore. Just the same, voters do not give Mr. Gore much credit for what people see as Mr. Clinton's accomplishments, like prosperity.
The fatigue factor is so tough to gauge that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore seem uncertain how to grapple with it. Mr. Gore is constantly recasting his relationship with Mr. Clinton. First he played loyal lieutenant, boasting about Clinton-Gore accomplishments. Then he stopped even mentioning Mr. Clinton by name. Then he bluntly condemned the President for personal transgressions. (Cynics suspects that that was a ploy hatched with a White House wink to allow Mr. Gore to break out on his own.)
Over the course of one day last week, Mr. Gore seemed to shift his pitch several times. At one point, he criticized his Administration's performance, saying, "I'm not satisfied." Later in the evening, at an event with the President, he softened, saying, "We've been doing a lot of things right, but it is time to start a wave of change in this nation."
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore should not necessarily take personally the cries of fatigue. "You can only imagine what the Roosevelt fatigue was like!" said James Carville, an architect of Mr. Clinton's campaign in 1992, recalling the 12-year tenure of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
In the case of F.D.R., Mr. Gore can take comfort, for voters, far from fickle, chose continuity over a fresh face: Taking on Mr. Roosevelt in 1944, Thomas E. Dewey assailed the three-term incumbent for surrounding himself with "tired old men in Washington." But a tired old man won re-election.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain. That's Al Gore's hope. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: HAY-ADAMS HOTEL (58%); WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); HISTORY (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (65%); TERRORISM (65%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



586 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: The World: Democracy in Turkey;
A Groundswell for More Human Rights

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL

 BODY:
WHEN Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey meets with President Clinton and Congressional leaders in Washington this week, there will be much talk about earthquake relief, geopolitics, and obscure though important matters like trade arbitration and oil pipeline routes. But on Capitol Hill and elsewhere in the United States, those matters pale into insignificance. There the great question is at once simpler and more complex: How democratic is Turkey?
To the extent that Americans think about Turkey, this is the question they most want answered. They want Turkey to stop jailing people for giving speeches or writing articles, and to grant its citizens the level of freedom enjoyed by most Americans and Europeans. Otherwise, no matter how much progress is made on international issues, Americans will continue to group Turkey with Peru, Malaysia, Belarus, Zimbabwe and other quasi-democracies where human rights have been pushed aside in favor of what ruling autocrats consider issues of national security. 
 Turkey has built a vibrant economy, given equality to women and created a remarkably open society. Yet precisely because the nation is so Western-oriented, its people have become impatient for full Western-style democracy.
Turkish military commanders still enjoy the right of veto over important Government decisions. A highly conservative political elite enforces laws that restrict free expression and other civil rights. Nonetheless, Prime Minister Ecevit and his aides come to Washington with a relatively good human rights story to tell. "They clearly have more to show in terms of actions, laws, decrees and actual shifts on the ground than any other recent Government of Turkey,"' said one Clinton Administration official.
GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED assassins who terrorized the mostly Kurdish provinces of southeastern Turkey for years seem to have packed their guns away. Radio stations there are now allowed to play Kurdish music. The Parliament has approved a repentance law for Kurdish rebels, albeit a highly limited one. In Turkish prisons, according to Sir Nigel Rodley, a United Nations investigator, there has been "a reduction in the incidence of the more brutal forms of torture."
That statement reflects Turkey's dilemma. Its human rights record, not just regarding torture but in all important areas, is better than it has been in years. But it still falls short of what the West considers to be minimum standards.
These days, the greatest pressure for improvement in Turkey's human rights climate comes not from Washington or European capitals, but from within Turkey itself. Millions of Turks, many of them outraged by the state's failure to react effectively to last month's earthquake, have begun demanding sweeping reforms and the repeal of laws that restrict democracy. Even some senior politicians have joined the chorus.
"Turkey understands more clearly than ever how urgent it is for us to create a civil society built on democracy and social justice," said Mehmet Ali Irtemcelik, a cabinet minister responsible for human rights and relations with Europe. "We must bring our country to the level of modern civilization."
Although these views are widely shared, many powerful figures still resist them. This week, President Clinton will probably encourage Mr. Ecevit to embrace the reform movement and overrule those, including military commanders and senior members of his own coalition Government, who fear its consequences.
This autumn will be full of challenges for Turkey. In November the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which places human rights at the top of its agenda, will hold a summit in Istanbul. A month later the European Union, which has also looked skeptically at Turkey's human rights record, will decide whether to make the nation an official candidate for membership.
Mr. Ecevit is acutely aware that the world is watching to see how he deals with a handful of high-profile human rights cases. Foreigners, along with millions of Turks, will be thrilled if final decisions are made to punish police officers who tortured teen-age prisoners in Manisa in 1995, others who beat the journalist Metin Goktepe to death in 1996, and prison guards who killed 10 Kurdish prisoners in Diyarbakir following a riot that same year.
This month one of Turkey's best-known prisoners, the pro-Kurdish sociologist Ismail Besikci, was released from prison. He was warned that he would be sent back to prison if he again violates laws against publishing subversive opinions, but his release was nonetheless welcomed by human rights advocates.
Other prisoners whose cases have attracted worldwide attention include Akin Birdal, head of the country's largest human rights group; Leyla Zana, a Kurd who is a former member of Parliament and whose supporters in Europe and the United States have made her probably the most famous Turkish citizen in the world, and the blind lawyer Esber Yagmurdereli, who has been convicted of supporting terrorism on the basis of evidence that human rights groups say was fabricated. Mr. Yagmurdereli has spent 16 of his 54 years in prison.
"I agree that the human rights situation in Turkey is improving," he said in a telephone interview from prison. "It's the result of several factors, including a lull in the Kurdish war, improved relations with the European Union, and the better climate that has followed the earthquake. But in truly democratic countries, people are guaranteed basic freedoms. That still isn't the case here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muslims praying at the door of a mosque in Cizre, Turkey. (Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); PERU (79%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); PERU (79%); BELARUS (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); TORTURE (88%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); VETO (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); PRISONS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); APPROVALS (62%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (57%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; ECEVIT, BULENT (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



587 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Small Companies, Big Donations

 BODY:
It may take a huge fortune to make a national splash in philanthropy, as Bill Gates has done lately with his $17 billion foundation.
But as the booming economy produces a bumper crop of new millionaires and successful small businesses, a big growth story in American charitable donations is being played out away from the spotlight. 
 Small business is where the growth is in companies' giving, according to "Give and Take: A Candid Account of Corporate Philanthropy," by Reynold Levy (Harvard Business School Press, 1999). And millionaires, not billionaires, are often unrecognized sources of the new contributions, says Mr. Levy, a former president of the AT&T Foundation who is now chief executive of the International Rescue Committee, an organization that assists refugees.
He says much small-business giving is "obligation-based" -- going to community organizations that expect local businesses to donate. But as small companies mature, the personal values of the entrepreneurs who run them increasingly come into play, inspiring support for causes that are close to these owners' hearts.
The more impassioned giving, Mr. Levy said, is springing from "something very much in the American culture -- a very strong impulse to helping others."
The proliferation of millionaires with maturing businesses suggests that charitable organizations would be wise to get to know as many entrepreneurs as they can.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SMALL COS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (56%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (56%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES; SMALL BUSINESS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); CHARITIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LEVY, REYNOLD BILL GATES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



588 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: India's Election Marathon Lumbers Into Final Week

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 25

 BODY:
As India lumbers into the fourth and final week of marathon national elections, elephants bearing ballot boxes tramp into dense forests and ponies carrying election officials clop their way to dizzying heights in the Himalayas, all to make sure that every citizen -- no matter how remote -- gets a chance to vote.
The fourth stage of voting is today. By the time the last vote is cast in the fifth and final round next Sunday and the last indelible ink stain has been swabbed on the last voter's finger, as many as 6 out of every 10 adult Indians who are not crazy or criminal -- more than 350 million people -- will have exercised their franchise, election officials say. 
 If exit polls and political analysts are to be believed, the kaleidoscope of Indian politics will then settle into a pattern that is similar to the last coalition Government, though different in certain crucial respects.
The Hindu nationalist-led alliance will most likely still be in power, but probably backed this time by a more powerful collection of 23 parties and probably commanding a stronger majority than it did in April before it lost the confidence of Parliament by a single vote.
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, 73, seems certain to head the new Government, as he did the old for the past year and a half, and will hope to have consolidated his position as the undisputed centrist leader of the coalition, the only man who can hold its disparate parts together.
The exit polls differ over the size of the coalition's margin of victory -- a margin crucial to determining how forcefully the alliance can govern. In its last incarnation, the coalition's majority was so thin that even the smallest parties had the power to threaten its demise by withdrawing. Much of Mr. Vajpayee's energy was consumed by the dispiriting job of placating mercurial, petulant allies.
Some analysts and Western diplomats believe that a resounding victory this time would give the Government more room to take politically risky steps. On the domestic front, it could move more aggressively, for example, to shut down money-losing state enterprises and encourage foreign investment. In foreign policy, it would have more leeway to reopen talks with Pakistan, sign the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and improve relations with the United States on trade and security issues.
But most agree that even gaining a big majority would not free Mr. Vajpayee's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, the largest partner in the coalition, to pursue its religiously divisive agenda, which includes building a Hindu temple on the site of a destroyed mosque and subordinating Muslim personal law to India's civil code.
The party will still be dependent on regional allies -- for example the Telugu Desam Party in southern Andhra Pradesh -- that count on the votes of Muslims, are committed to secularism and would almost certainly quit the coalition if the more vociferous Hindu nationalists were given free rein.
The factors underlying the coalition's apparent electoral gains are various. The soaring price of vegetables that had led to such disastrous results for the Hindu nationalists in state elections last November have come down. In fact, inflation, a potent political issue here, is low.
Industrial growth is on the upswing and this season's normal monsoon will help insure that agricultural production in this predominantly rural nation is strong.
Much attention has been lavished on Mr. Vajpayee's deft diplomatic handling of a small war in Kashmir that ended with India repelling Pakistani-backed forces from its territory, and that victory does seem to have burnished his popularity.
But in travels to villages and cities in southern, western and northern India, voters almost never raised the Kashmir conflict as a decisive issue. Usually, they were motivated by local, bread-and-butter issues or the interests of their own caste or religious group -- and often saying that they would support regional or caste-based political parties.
The days of one-party rule under the Congress Party are long gone. It is the Bharatiya Janata Party that has wholeheartedly embraced the necessity of building a coalition and sharing power with its partners in New Delhi.
"The B.J.P. has tied up with more heavy-weight regional allies in state after state," said E. Sridharan, a political analyst at the University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India, based here. "That is a huge strategic advantage."
The Congress Party, led by Sonia Gandhi, the widowed, Italian-born heir to the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, has continued to organize its campaign around the notion that it is the natural party of governance and the only force that can provide political stability, while minimizing the need for allies. But that position is increasingly implausible.
The Congress Party itself has been weakened internally by disputes over the foreign origins of Mrs. Gandhi, 52. Sharad Pawar, the party's chief power broker in the large state of Maharashtra, left the party earlier this year over that issue and set up a new party that has significantly weakened Congress in a state where it would otherwise have made substantial gains.
The regional and caste-based parties that have proliferated in India over the past decade or two -- -- some of whom had joined with leftists to form a third political force are now increasingly allying themselves with either the Bharatiya Janata Party or the Congress Party as the best hope of winning a share of power at the national level.
"The regional parties have realized that they can share in power only through alliance with one of the two major party blocs," said D. L. Sheth, a political sociologist at the Center for the Study of Developing Societies in New Delhi. "This is a multiethnic, diverse society and it expresses itself through coalitions."
 
http://www.nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: 
Photo: When India winds up its four-week-long election at the end of the week, more than 350 million people will have voted, officials say. In the Thar Desert, in Rajasthan state, camel carts became mobile polling places. (Palani Mohan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: HIMALAYAS (73%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (58%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); HIMALAYAS (73%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (58%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA; VAJPAYEE, ATAL BEHARI (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



589 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton's Listening Tour Now Evolving Into Senate Campaign

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: SCHENECTADY, N.Y., Sept. 25

 BODY:
In a pair of trial runs at a stump speech, Hillary Rodham Clinton sounded out the themes of her expected campaign for the United States Senate today, listing the weak upstate economy, affordable health care, education, the environment, Social Security and gun control as the most important issues facing New York.
So far, Mrs. Clinton has done more listening than talking on her visits to the state, often taking positions only when prodded by reporters. 
 But today she gave a spirited run-through of her agenda to welcoming audiences, first at a fund-raising breakfast for the Schenectady County Democratic Committee and then at a labor union rally in Albany. She also made some of her most overtly partisan remarks of the year, assailing Republicans in Congress for passing a tax cut that she said put social programs at risk, and for blocking an increase in the minimum wage.
While she offered no surprises and few specifics, her remarks showed the continuing evolution over this year from an exploratory effort propelled largely by her name recognition and the sheer oddity of a First Lady running for office, toward a full-fledged campaign next year and the attendant need to build a platform that will appeal to a broad cross-section of voters.
Speaking to about 300 people at the Schenectady Museum, in this faded industrial city, Mrs. Clinton spoke at length of the need to revive the anemic upstate economy and stem the migration of people from the region. "If upstate New York were a separate state, it would rank 49th in job creation and income growth," she said.
Turning to the social policy issues with which she has been most closely identified, she touched on support for education, and pledged, "We will figure out a way to provide quality, affordable health care to every American."
She took a swipe at Congressional Republicans' bid to cut taxes by nearly $800 billion over 10 years, a bill that is supported by her likely Republican opponent, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and that was vetoed by her husband, President Clinton.
"We need to use the budget surplus that has been created by the good policies of this Democratic Administration to make sure that Social Security and Medicare are on stable financial ground into the next century," she said. "Are we going to be responsible or are we going to go for the short-term, quick-fix political gimmick? Well, I was very proud of my husband when he vetoed that short-term, quick-fix political gimmick."
Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's campaign spokesman, said her remarks were as close as she had come yet to making what will become her standard stump speech. "Those are the themes being road-tested right there," he said.
At a rally attended by a few thousand cheering union members in a park in Albany, Mrs. Clinton focused on issues dear to organized labor, including her support for raising the minimum wage.
"I believe with all my heart that no working American who goes to work 40 hours a week, who is there being a responsible worker and citizen, that no working American should live in poverty," she said.
She noted that the Republican leadership in Congress had recently blocked a vote on a minimum wage increase. And, with an implicit dig at Mr. Giuliani, who has declined to state a position on the issue, she added, "It is wrong, and we should take a stand."
Through several public appearances today, Mrs. Clinton did not take questions from reporters, who were unable to ask her about the two most recent controversies involving Mr. Giuliani: his threat to block funds for the Brooklyn Museum of Art because of its scheduled exhibition of controversial art works, and his administration's plan to cull Medicaid records of welfare applicants to find those who have been treated for substance abuse and insist that they receive continued treatment in return for welfare benefits. She did not raise either subject.
Mr. Giuliani did not make any public appearances today.
But Mrs. Clinton did edge closer than ever to confirming what has, for months, seemed evident: that she will formally become a candidate for the seat being vacated by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat. "I haven't announced anything," she said, "but I'm leaning so far toward running that I'd fall over if I leaned any further."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton, sounding more like a candidate, met members of New York State United Teachers at a rally in Albany yesterday. (Tim Roske for The New York Times)(pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; SCHENECTADY (NY); ALBANY (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); VETO (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); GUN CONTROL (57%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



590 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Buchanan's Sister Shepherds Insurgent Race

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Bay Buchanan sighed a bit in admitting that her brother Patrick, the quixotic Presidential candidate, was essentially a man without a party.
"We are in no man's land," said Ms. Buchanan, who sounded, however, far from forlorn at the risks and opportunities as her brother considered casting aside a lifetime of Republican labors to switch his Presidential candidacy to the Reform Party. 
 "We are in political limbo," said Ms. Buchanan, a lean and avid political operative clearly relishing the long odds as she plays chief strategist, fiery alter ego and grass-roots shepherd for her brother in his threatened party switch.
"I can't ask people to give him money," she said in an interview at her brother's campaign headquarters this week. "I can't build a staff until we know where he's running. It's a very delicate time."
In this time, with no formal hustings to welcome him, Mr. Buchanan has been publicizing a new book, "A Republic, Not an Empire" (Regnery Publishing), and teasing out the party-switching question in a dozen broadcast interviews a day. He is well into one of his signature "America First" controversies over his views in the book of Hitler and World War II -- just the sort of verbal fisticuffs that assure both Buchanans that the rebel fire is returning to their quest.
But the harder work in the political trenches has fallen to Ms. Buchanan as she telephones Reform Party officials to make the necessary overtures and to master the arcane procedures for getting on dozens of state ballots.
In their parallel efforts, the Buchanans are far from sibling rivals. They are respected even by their critics as a classic inside-outside political team practiced in the art of insurgent mischief. And Ms. Buchanan, while a familiar sight on the cable-television political circuit, has returned to her strong suit behind the scenes as campaign manager.
"I am now feeling knowledgeable about the Reform Party system," she said, hardly discouraging the likelihood of the Buchanans' defection from the Republican Party, about which they have promised a decision by mid-October. "Technically, I will be able to tell Pat that it can be done and I would be able to raise the money."
Battle-hardened from running the fractious Buchanan Presidential campaigns in 1992 and 1996 against the Republican Establishment, Ms. Buchanan sounds almost enchanted that, after months of her brother's barely registering in this year's Republican pre-primary polls, she is scouting a fresh political Rubicon for him to cross.
Ms. Buchanan is the daughter of a successful Washington accountant who offers a backwoods sort-of twang and sharp-edged glance -- much the way her brother, one of the capital's longstanding conservative elite, savors riffs of blue-collar rhetoric. The two seem united by an appetite for contrariness.
"In '92 people would ask, 'You're his daughter, right?' " recalled Ms. Buchanan, a veteran political consultant who is 10 years younger than her 60-year-old brother. "By '96 they were asking, 'Who's older?' "
For all that wear and tear, Ms. Buchanan -- christened Angela Marie and called Bay in a family of nine children steeped in dinner-table conservatism -- seems addicted to cutting fresh swaths in the campaign trail.
It was Ms. Buchanan, a fierce political warrior with a master's degree in mathematics from McGill University, who first explored the Reform gamble for her brother. Buchanan critics suspect that she mainly had her eye on the $12.6 million in Federal matching funds that await whoever may be the Reform Party nominee next year.
William Kristol, the conservative Republican commentator, has sarcastically denounced Mr. Buchanan as "Pat the Bunny," opportunistically "hopping around on the fringes of American politics" and sniffing out "whatever carrots our political system offers up."
In rebuttal, Ms. Buchanan scoffs at "Billy" Kristol for "not understanding the movement Pat represents."
"This is an anguishing decision," she said, speaking as a Republican who, through her brother's patronage, served in the Nixon and Reagan White Houses. "This is not a decision you make for money, for goodness' sakes. It takes enormous courage."
Heeding the different drummer may be more second nature to her than to her brother. Seventeen years ago, Ms. Buchanan stood up to her staunchly Roman Catholic family, including Pat, in converting to Mormonism and marrying in that faith. Now she survives as the divorced working mother of three teen-age sons, heading home to them in the Virginia suburbs after long days in the Buchanan war room.
"She's terrific with the boys," said Pat Choate, a longtime friend and Reform Party leader who was Ross Perot's running mate on the party's ticket in 1996. Mr. Choate is in daily contact with Ms. Buchanan now as the two strategize about how to nail down the Reform nomination.
"Bay goes home, takes care of her sons and turns off the politics," Mr. Choate said. "People don't know she also took care of her mother in her home until she died in '96. Talk about a manager -- Bay's the real thing."
Others describe her as less an ideologue than her brother and more his devoted agent, as scrappy in the back room as he is on television. In a 30-minute interview, she was interrupted four times by cellular phone calls from her brother with urgent importunings.
"He's panicking because of where he is," she calmly explained, referring not to any position her brother has taken but to the logistics of his rushing to the next television interview.
At the campaign headquarters, Ms. Buchanan offered a no-nonsense sketch of the Reform Party terrain she felt she could master. She emphasized that her brother would be pushing for the reforms in the economy, foreign trade and government that the Reform Party is most concerned about, without abandoning his anti-abortion stance.
"I think we have a real good shot for the Reform nomination if Pat chooses to go," she said. "But we'll have to fight for it.
"It will take $6 million in 30 states," she said, summarizing the effort in having the required petition drives under way by the end of this year in the 30 states where they are needed to get him on the ballot. The Reform Party is already established in 20 states. "For the first $4 million," she said, "I can get $2 million in matching funds. But my goal is to raise more than the $4 million."
Ms. Buchanan said she had been in touch with a dozen state Reform organization leaders so far, with another dozen on her list. "Lenora Fulani asked to speak to us," she noted. Ms. Buchanan hardly sounded flustered by the strange-bedfellow aspect of politics in her brother's having to deal with Ms. Fulani, a New York Reform Party figure who was once an ally of Louis Farrakhan, the firebrand leader of the Nation of Islam.
"Intellectually, there's no question Pat's moved very dramatically in the direction of the third party," Ms. Buchanan said, clearly warming to a fresh field of political combat that would begin with the Buchanans' defection from the party that first inspired their fealty and lent them celebrity. "If your heart is in it, if you really feel the decision is made for the right reason, then you can get through the fire."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bay Buchanan says she and her brother Patrick, the Presidential candidate, are "in political limbo" while he considers switching parties. Mr. Buchanan may abandon the G.O.P. to seek the Reform Party's nomination. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFFF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY AMERICA FIRST FINANCIAL (55%); AMERICA FIRST FINANCIAL (55%); REFORM PARTY (75%); REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (75%); REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BUCHANAN, BAY BUCHANAN PRESIDENTIAL (97%); PAT CHOATE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



591 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: So In, So Very Berlin: A Capital Seeks Its Identity

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Imagine finding a vacant lot on the banks of the Seine, opposite the Louvre, and using it periodically as a discotheque. Unthinkable, of course. But not in Berlin, where the Kunst und Technik club opens its doors from time to time and demonstrates that right now, in this city, anything is possible.
On the banks of the Spree, in the early hours, revelers dance, gazing out at the magnificent dome of the Bode museum of antiquities on the island opposite. Several young men urinate into the dark water. The city's choicest real estate has been given over to a makeshift techno club, and nobody can quite believe it. 
 "Heidelberg was so boring," said Mathias Santelmann, a law student who moved recently from the old university town to the new German capital. "This place is going to be to Germany as New York is to the United States." He pointed out to the mesmerizing river and dome, and exclaimed, "Look, we're here at the creation!"
Germany's inhibitions being what they are, the re-creation of Berlin as the home of the Government in recent weeks has been a muted affair: no big rallies, no public festivities, no showy speeches from the Chancellor.
"We're still fearful of the wrong images, so we like to pretend that nothing is happening," said Peter Schneider, a writer.
And yet. As diplomats and civil servants unpack, as embassies hold "Welcome to Berlin" parties, as newspapers offer "Berlin supplements," as completed buildings emerge from a labyrinth of cranes, as an immense show opens on German art in this century, something is in the air. Perhaps it could best be called the spark of the unpredictable.
Berlin, it has long been said, is damned: the city is so busy becoming, it never gets around to being. Cataclysm has intervened too regularly for that. But everyone seems to sense that this fifth attempt in this century at Berlin-as-capital -- after the Kaiser, Weimar, Hitler and the East German Communists -- is the last best chance for the city to overcome its curse.
"This will be a great city of the next century, but it still has to be created," Karl Kaiser, the director of the German Institute for Foreign Affairs, said as he moved into his new Berlin premises this month. "And I think it is the open-endedness that creates this strong sense of intrigue."
Or perhaps the intrigue lies in the almost physical sense today of a German future being dragged from a still-cloying past. After Bonn, an escape from history, Berlin offers a daily confrontation -- with imperial pomposity, with Nazi madness, with East-West division. And in this encounter Germany's hope of an elusive reconciliation may lie.
"For most young Germans now going to Berlin, our history starts in 1945 or with the Holocaust," said Hans Mommsen, a historian. "National pride, in so far as it exists, has nothing to do with the Bismarckian Reich. It has to do with the Constitution and the democracy of the Federal Republic. We have developed a new national consciousness, one forged from the terrible legacy of Auschwitz."
It is this reformed nation that will be tested in Berlin. For the consciousness of old Germans and young Germans, of east Germans and west Germans, is by no means at one, and this city is the symbol of the traumas that have divided them.
From his anonymous Bonn office, Mr. Kaiser has moved into a building that was constructed as the Royal Yugoslav Legation in the 1930's. After the war, the building housed a restitutions court for property stolen by the Nazis.
That is Berlin: history is everywhere, inescapable as the construction sites hoisting the new city into being, visible in buildings or graves still bullet-scarred from Hitler's war, written on the surviving pieces of the wall.
A pervasive history, menacing, grandiose or just plain hideous, as in Honecker's Palace of the Republic -- a building strangely close to the heart of many easterners, or Ossis, even as it is loathed by Wessis who want to rebuild the castle of the old emperors on that very site.
Can any national pride emerge from such a history? "Patriotism is not a word you use easily in Germany," said Michael Naumann, the country's top cultural official. "But, yes, I am a patriot. I take pride in what we have become, in our language, in our legal system. And I think Berlin offers a chance for this new German patriotism."
Germans had a phrase for the situation at the end of World War II: They called it Stunde Null, or Zero Hour. Then, when the Berlin wall came down a decade ago, it was Stunde Null again, a new beginning.
Perhaps, quiet as they are, these balmy fall days amount to a third Zero Hour, a moment when Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has declared unabashedly that his country is a "great power" again, an hour of emancipation, as if this return to Berlin 54 years after Hitler's Reich symbolized the end of an unseen but powerful tutelage.
So it seems, at least. But this city is scarcely "great" or "normal" yet; nor is it the booming place imagined when the decision to bring the capital back here was made in 1991. Then predictions suggested the population would swell to 4.5 million by the year 2000 and to between 5 million and 6 million by 2005.
In fact, the population -- now 3.4 million -- has stagnated, as new arrivals have been offset by Berliners migrating to the lower taxes of the surrounding state of Brandenburg. A predicted business boom has also failed to happen, leaving the center of the city littered with unoccupied office space. More than 250,000 Berliners are unemployed.
"Instead of the imagined meeting place of East and West here in Berlin, the city is merely the largest used-car dealership for East Europe," Thierry Chervel commented recently in the Suddeutsche Zeitung.
He had a point. Berlin was hypnotic in the 1920's, the charged, menacing sensual city of Otto Dix's canvases. During many of the cold war years, West Berlin was hip, an edgy, energetic place of refuge for those fleeing the oppressive conformity of many of the cities of the old West Germany.
Yet, even then, Berlin was far from the metropole so often dreamed-of. Today, the city often looks seedy and cheap. Stroll east down the central Kurfurstenstrasse and the classy prostitutes at one end give way to ragged young women clearly just arrived from countries farther east.
Not yet gentrified like Paris or most of Manhattan, Berlin remains raw and continues to offer cheap enough housing close to the center to retain its proletarian touch. The aristocracy and captains of industry nearly all fled during the many years when Communism was so close. Few have seen fit to return.
"Berlin is definitely the world capital of bad taste," said Michael Mussotter, an architect. "I love the city for that bad taste, for the mix of classes, for the cheap public housing amid the grand new developments."
Those developments -- most visibly the new Potsdamer Platz with its Walt Disney productions, its Tony Roma's, its immense mall -- have been overwhelmingly commercial, a sign that the hour is one of marketing rather than social or political ideals. Whether Berlin can hold on to its intense social mix as the capital takes form is open to question.
Already, the city has changed immensely. Much of west Berlin, once so lively, now seems a dowdy and forgotten place. The Kurfurstendamm, that mecca of shopping conceived to show cold-war escapees from the east what they had been missing, is simply dismal. All the energy is in eastern districts like Mitte or Prenzlauer Berg.
But for now, these shifts have not produced a whole -- what Mark Braun, an architect, called "the urban grain you have in London or in Paris, the grain that was lost in the demolition that Berlin has known."
Of course, that grain is nothing other than civilization, its slow and patient accumulation, in stone after stone.
And when Berliners talk incessantly about their dreams of a Weltstadt, or world city, then the German thirst for a civilized, cosmopolitan norm is palpable.
Such an achievement -- a great city, open to the world, to east and to west, showing its history but unthreatened by it, powerful but unthreatening to others -- would, it seems, represent the ultimate healing of Germany's many wounds.
For now, whatever Mr. Schroder may say, that reconciliation remains some way off. In its place is a jagged energy, an edginess, an openness that leave a piece of formerly eastern riverside property in the hands of an association of artists who, for reasons best known to themselves, open the premises as a club on every date divisible by six.
That place is Kunst und Technik, very in, very Berlin. Julia Tanzer, 23, comes here regularly. "This city is my future," she said simply.
And what of the city's painful past? "You know, we see it for the first time in schools, when we are 9 years old, we see Auschwitz, and what do we feel? Horror, of course. It's terrible, terrible -- but it's not my fault."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Berlin, a city of considerable inhibitions, can barely believe the unpredictable facets in its newest new identity. At the discotheque Kunst und Technik, Berliners can revel by the banks of the Spree near the Bode museum. (Josef Polleross for The New York Times)
 
Map of Berlin: For the fifth time in a century, Berlin is a German capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER PETER L SCHNEIDER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



592 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2047 words

HEADLINE: Returning River to Salmon, and Man to the Drawing Board

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: LITTLE GOOSE DAM, Wash.

 BODY:
Of all the ways in which Americans have reshaped the land to suit their priorities, none is more audacious than the vast network of hydroelectric dams that stretches across the Pacific Northwest, taming wild rivers, opening shipping passages and bringing the region the cheapest electricity rates in the nation.
The construction of these huge dams, dating back to the Great Depression, was an epic engineering achievement, amply glorified by Woody Guthrie in the 1940's. "Your power is turning our darkness to dawn," ran his folk song, "so roll on, Columbia, roll on." 
 But whatever their benefits to man, the great dams have proved lethal on a gigantic scale to the region's wild salmon, striving to complete their own remarkable journey from the rivers out to the Pacific Ocean and back again to spawn, right where they were born. And here on the lower Snake River, two Federal agencies are exploring a proposal that is proving to be far more contentious than building the dams was in the first place, and could have just as enormous consequences: taking four dams out of service, including the Little Goose, and restoring a 140-mile portion of the Snake to its wild, free-flowing condition.
As required by the Endangered Species Act, the United States Army Corps of Engineers and the National Marine Fisheries Service are studying the most radical step of all to save the salmon. It is an idea passionately favored by environmental groups, many American Indians and commercial fishermen as far away as Canada and Alaska, who could someday catch a healthy run of Idaho-born fish in their waters, and bitterly opposed by farmers and many others in this region, who now rely on the river for shipping and electricity.
The debate will almost surely wind up in Congress, where most lawmakers from the area are vowing a tooth-and-nail fight against breaching the dams, which would involve removing the earthen portions, and rendering the dams inoperative.
But the once unthinkable idea is clearly on the table because for 25 years, the Army Corps of Engineers, which operates the dams, has been struggling to find ways for the dams and the salmon to coexist on the Snake.
Despite Federal spending of more than $3 billion on programs that include fish ladders, hatcheries and even a truck-and-barging system "custom-made to make the trip as safe and comfortable as possible" for the salmon, according to a Corps brochure, the fish remain in a terrible decline.
The river's coho salmon have already been declared extinct, and every other species of salmon and steelhead in the Snake River is now listed under the Endangered Species Act. Two centuries ago, when the explorer William Clark wrote that the Snake was "crouded with salmon," about 2 million adult salmon a year completed the trip back to their spawning grounds, biologists estimate. Last year's official count, according to the Idaho Department of Fish and Game, was as follows: 8,426 spring and summer chinook, 306 fall chinook and 2 sockeye.
Environmental groups have already scored some major victories in their bid to take down dams in various parts of the country. This summer, for instance, an aging hydroelectric dam on Maine's Kennebec River was demolished, under Federal order, to open the river so that several species of Atlantic fish, including salmon and sturgeon, could regain access to their traditional spawning grounds.
And a Northwest electric utility, Pacificorp, said recently that it would take down the Condit Dam on Washington's White Salmon River by 2006 rather than pay the $30 million Federal regulators would have required to make it less harmful to fish. The dam, which is 125 feet high, is the tallest dam ever slated for demolition in the United States, environmentalists say.
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said the plan was "yet another example that river restoration is on the national agenda."
But the breaching of the Little Goose and three other Snake River dams would dwarf either of those actions, and would signal a remarkable shift in national priorities. Opponents of the breaching plan seem flabbergasted that the idea is even up for discussion. The dams provide about 4 percent of the Northwest's electricity and were also built to turn Lewiston, Idaho, in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and nearly 500 miles from the Pacific, into the West Coast's most inland seaport. None of the dams is used for flood control.
The opponents trust that even if Federal agencies do recommend the action, it can be blocked in Congress. A draft report by the fisheries service earlier this year called breaching the dams "more likely than any other hydrosystem action to meet survival and recovery criteria for the listed species," bureaucratic language nonetheless greeted as a bombshell around here.
Still, the opponents have staunch defenders, like Senator Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington, who says that breaching the dams would be "an unmitigated disaster and an economic nightmare" for the region.
On the other hand, 107 members of Congress, in a letter to President Clinton, called the salmon and steelhead "an economic and environmental asset whose preservation is a national responsibility," and urged the Administration to consider breaching the dams as an option. Most of the letter-signers are Democrats outside the Northwest.
In the end, the question broadly comes down to whether saving the salmon outweighs the dam's economic benefits to eastern Washington and parts of Idaho, a state that has found itself deeply split over the issue because restoring the salmon could be hugely beneficial for the state's recreational industry but would also effectively wipe out Lewiston's position as a seaport.
Looking at the issue in terms only of the salmon, which Cecil D. Andrus, a former Interior Secretary as well as Idaho Governor, once called "the ultimate symbol of the Pacific Northwest," there is something very close to a consensus among biologists that breaching the dams would be the single most effective step toward restoring their wild runs.
"The biological leg of this stool is very clear," said Ed Bowles, Idaho's manager of anadromous fish, those that hatch in freshwater and migrate to the sea. "If you want to have recovery back to fishable levels and to de-list the fish from the Endangered Species Act, if you want to do this with a reasonable or high likelihood of success, you need to restore a natural river in the Snake. Other options do not provide you with even lukewarm security of getting the job done."
But even Mr. Bowles acknowledges that there are other legs to the stool -- the economic and social questions surrounding the decision. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the breaching would save the salmon, since their downward spiral seems to be linked to other factors as well, including warming waters in the north Pacific Ocean.
"Would the fish be better off without these dams?" said Danny Consenstein, the Columbia Basin coordinator for the fisheries service. "Yes, but that's sort of an incomplete analysis. Will it lead to recovery? That's a much tougher question."
And many opponents of breaching, even as they say they would like to find a way to help both the Snake River dams and the salmon survive, leave no doubt as to which they believe to be the higher priority.
"I don't want to see the salmon disappear," said Roger W. Koller, a wheat farmer in Pomeroy, Wash. "They are a part of Northwest culture and history. But I don't want to see my farm disappear, either."
To get to the sea, and to come back to spawn, the fish must also navigate four dams on the Columbia River, but for a variety of reasons, more fish make it past those dams, which are not being studied for breaching.
And even as many people who live here fondly recall the wild river before the dams were built, in the 1960's and early 1970's, they are skeptical that breaching them would restore a lost world.
"I refer to it as a kind of environmental religion," said Bob Jenson, a Republican state representative in northeastern Oregon. "I think some people look at these dams as concrete obstructions in the environment and they'd like to return to a pristine natural environment, but that seems to me, personally, ridiculous. We live in a different world than Lewis and Clark experienced when they first came down the river. We can't restore that."
But Buzz Ramsey, president of the Northwest Sportsfishing Industry Association, said: "If we don't do something and we don't do it soon, these fish are going go extinct. That's very clear. And what does it say about us as a society if we are willing to simply let these magnificent fish become extinct?"
The whole issue is enormously complex, and it is not even possible to calculate with certainty, from an economic perspective, whether it would cost more to keep the dams or remove them.
Breaching them would cost about $1 billion and unquestionably add, in the short term, costs for farmers and anyone else who ships products out of the area. And by removing some of the region's electric power capacity, it would probably add as much as $4 to the average monthly electrical bill in the areas around the dams and about $1 to the bill of customers as far away as Seattle.
On the other hand, breaching could bring in hundreds of millions of dollars annually from fishermen, rafters and kayakers who would most likely flock to the river if it was restored to a free-flowing condition. And keeping the dams has potentially enormous costs, too. One is that of continued and expanded programs to keep the salmon alive.
"We've spent billions of dollars trying to tweak a system that cannot be tweaked enough to meet the goal," said Rob Masonis, regional director of hydropower programs for American Rivers, an environmental group. "It's failed miserably. And it's crazy to keep throwing in that money when we know we have an option that can work."
Another potential cost of keeping the dams, possibly a colossal one, could come in lawsuits from American Indian groups whose guarantees of perpetual fishing rights in the Snake and other rivers have been rendered all but useless by the dams and other actions that have harmed the fish. Similarly, the United States recently concluded a dispute with Canada over salmon fishing by signing a treaty that commits the Federal Government to steps that could restore healthy salmon runs from American rivers, like the Snake, to Canadian coastal waters.
The issue is already exacerbating tensions between urban areas like Seattle, where there are car bumper stickers proclaiming "I'm pro-salmon, and I vote," and rural areas east of the Cascades, in which "Save the dams" stickers are abundant.
"There's some massive wealth generation going on on the western side of Washington, but there aren't a lot of dot-coms in this region," said John W. Mitchell, an economist with U.S. Bank in Portland, Ore., adding that the farming areas have also been severely hurt by falling wheat prices worldwide. "They're getting hit, and they're going to feel very defensive about the dams."
The timing of a final decision about the dams -- the others are Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental and Lower Granite -- is unclear. Both the Corps of Engineers and the fisheries service are scheduled to release major analyses of the costs and benefits of breaching by the end of the year, although there are already indications that they may put off full recommendations until late next year, not at all coincidentally after the 2000 elections.
In Lewiston, the port manager, David Doeringsfeld, said breaching could be ruinous to the local economy. "It's 3,000, maybe 4,000 jobs in a region of 50,000 people," he said. "It would be like Seattle losing Boeing."
Still, in an editorial in June, even the local newspaper, The Lewiston Morning Tribune, conceded that breaching the dams was probably the "biggest and best means" of saving the fish.
"Now it becomes a political decision as to which uses of the river the people and their political leaders value more -- the fish saved at any cost, or doom the fish and keep the benefits of the dams," said the newspaper. "That, of course, is a rock and a hard place."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A fish was directed to the current of Washington's Snake River last week by John Cummins, who found it under a rock at Little Goose Dam. (Jackie Johnston for The New York Times)(pg. 1); In February, hundreds of people, including one on stilts, rallied in Kennewick, Wash., against a plan to remove four dams on the Snake River. Left, the ladder the fish use to bypass the Little Goose Dam on their way up the river from the Pacific Ocean to spawn. (Jackie Johnston/Associated Press)(Jackie Johnston for The New York Times)(pg. 36)
 
Map showing the location of the Snake River in Washington. (pg. 1)
 
Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Dams and Salmon on the Snake River"
Efforts to save the Northwest's endangered wild salmon include a proposal to breach four dams on the Snake River, including the Little Goose Dam, below. The earthen portions would be removed, allowing the river to return to a free-flowing state. The graph shows the wild adult fish counted at the upper most dam on Snake River and significant dates in the region, from (1964-1998)(Source: Idaho Department of Fish and Game)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWAC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SNAKE RIVER (PACIFIC NORTHWEST); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; INDIANS, AMERICAN; DAMS AND DIKES; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES RIVERS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ARMIES (90%); FISHES (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (87%); BIOLOGY (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (86%); AQUACULTURE (74%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (74%); CHRONOLOGIES (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); UTILITY RATES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); FISHERIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



593 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. to Propose Spending Billions on Rail Expansion

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In an eagerly awaited financial blueprint, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority on Wednesday will propose spending $17 billion in a five-year capital plan, with provisions for work on a new Second Avenue subway and other expansion projects.
Flush with the tax revenue that pays for most of its operations and encouraged by sharp increases in ridership on its buses and subways, the M.T.A. will propose spending $5 billion more than its current spending plan, which expires Dec. 31. 
 But the proposed plan leaves unanswered how the M.T.A. will pay for all the projects it proposes. The plan, according to several people familiar with it, relies on more than $2 billion that must be raised in "new government assistance or other M.T.A. resources," a provision that transit advocates say could result in a fare increase.
Although details of the five-year plan have not been disclosed, a senior M.T.A. official, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used, said yesterday that the spending plan would allocate $14 billion for maintenance work on buses and subways and the completion of projects that are already under way, including the renovation of several subway stations in all five boroughs.
He said the remaining $3 billion is designated in the plan for "moving the system forward," mainly through the acquisition of new subway cars, commuter rail cars and buses, and several subway construction projects.
The plan would provide $700 million for a Second Avenue subway, a proposed expansion that has the support of many Manhattan residents and elected officials. The M.T.A. official said the proposed amount would cover environmental studies and engineering work, with some money left for initial construction.
Although several versions of the Second Avenue subway have been proposed, with some advocates insisting that it be built from the Bronx to lower Manhattan, the capital plan is more modest, proposing a new subway tunnel from 125th Street to 63d Street. A new underground walkway at 63d Street would connect to the N and R Lines to enable passengers to transfer.
Because of the groundswell of public support for a new Second Avenue line, the version proposed in the five-year plan could be its most politically divisive element. An unusually broad coalition, the Empire State Transportation Alliance, which includes labor unions, environmental groups, the New York City Partnership and others, has been lobbying the M.T.A. to make the Second Avenue project a higher priority.
Sheldon Silver, the Speaker of the New York Assembly, who represents the Upper East Side, has said in recent weeks he would block approval of the five-year plan if it does not provide money for a line running the full length of Second Avenue.
If approved by the M.T.A. board, which is expected to vote on Wednesday, the five-year plan would go to to Gov. George E. Pataki, who is expected to endorse it. The State Legislature would then consider it.
The largest project in the plan, budgeted at $1.6 billion, is a new tunnel for the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal, giving commuters direct access to the east side of midtown Manhattan. The M.T.A. official said yesterday the amount provided for that project, which has long been advocated by Mr. Pataki, would be enough to complete it by the end of the five-year spending period.
Other large projects envisioned in the plan, both advocated by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, would extend the N line in Queens to La Guardia Airport, and extension of the No. 7 line from Times Square west to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and other developments on the west side of Manhattan.
The M.T.A. official declined to say how much would be allocated for those projects. He said another major expense covered in the plan is a $1 billion allocation for the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, which would include the $300 million replacement of the deck on the Triborough Bridge.
The plan calls for the M.T.A. to purchase 1,000 new subway cars and 1,050 new buses, of which 300 would be powered by natural gas or other fuels that emit fewer pollutants than diesel, the official said.
Although the plan is being proposed during what is widely regarded as a period of renaissance for New York City public transportation, it seemed certain yesterday to provoke questions over whether the sharp increase in spending can be sustained.
One reason for the uncertainty is that the increased popularity of the M.T.A.'s buses and subways has not resulted in an increase in fare revenues, because the recent introduction of fare discounts and unlimited ride Metrocards has enabled frequent users of the system to ride for less.
In August, anticipating an M.T.A. plan for new subway construction and sharp increases in spending, New York City's Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan research group that advises the City Council, warned that the M.T.A. could face looming budget deficits if the economy sours.
Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders advocacy group, noted that the M.T.A. had not ruled out fare hikes to pay for the increased spending. "They have laid out their choices, and they are not easy ones," he said.
One aspect of the plan that seemed certain to draw opposition from environmental groups was the M.T.A.'s proposal to buy far more diesel-powered buses than those powered with alternative fuels.
"Diesel pollution is the No. 1 environmental issue in New York City," said Richard Kassel, senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council. "By saying two out of three new buses will be diesel, they are taking two steps in the wrong direction." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUBWAYS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRAINS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



594 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: A FISCAL DEADLINE COULD FORCE G.O.P. TO BREAK A PLEDGE

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
As the new fiscal year approaches, a financial and political crisis confronts Republicans in Congress. They may have to break their repeated promises and raid Social Security to run the Government, their own staff and independent analysts say.
For months, the Republican leaders have sworn that they would pass their spending bills on time, hew to self-imposed spending limits and leave Social Security alone. But with only five days left in the fiscal year, those promises appear almost impossible to keep, as most of the spending bills are not finished. 
 The proposals on the table would break the spending caps or use technicalities to obey them, and most budget experts are projecting the diversion of Social Security funds. Meanwhile, Congress has so far failed to pass other major bills, like those on campaign finance, health care and gun control.
All week, nearly every day, they renewed their vows not to spend Social Security surpluses to run the Government in the coming fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1.
"We're not going to take money out of Social Security," Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois said on Thursday, as President Clinton vetoed the Republicans' legislative centerpiece of 1999, a $792 billion tax cut. The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said, "We should not spend one nickel of Social Security." And Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, who has been his party's chief spending strategist in the House, said, "The bottom line is this: We're not going to spend a dime of the Social Security trust fund."
But even as they repeat that mantra this week, their own spending strategies are undermining them. The spending bills written by the Republicans will drain billions of dollars from the Social Security surplus, according to the latest figures from the Congressional Budget Office and the calculations of independent experts.
Although the Government's budget is better balanced than it has been for many years, and the amount likely to be siphoned from Social Security is only a tiny fraction of total Federal spending, the partisan fight over the issue may have political repercussions far larger than the amount of money involved.
How the battle is resolved could affect whether the Republicans retain their thin majority in Congress or Democrats manage to recapture at least the House; and both Republican and Democratic candidates for President are almost sure to focus on taxes, spending and Social Security in the 2000 elections.
In past years, when the Government ran deficits, Congress routinely spent extra receipts from Social Security taxes to run Federal programs. But now, with the expected surpluses, Congress cannot agree with the President on whether to cut taxes, expand Government programs, or pay down the Federal debt. How to account for the Social Security funds is at the heart of the dispute.
To their acute discomfort, the Republicans may be forced to play into the White House's hands by spending some of the Social Security surplus they have pledged to protect.
The Congressional Budget Office's latest figures show Congress spending $4 billion to $16 billion out of the supposedly sacrosanct Social Security trust fund. But those figures are two weeks old, and the calculation has changed for the worse in recent days as Republicans and Democrats alike clamor for more money for their favorite programs.
"If one were to take all the demands that have developed here in the last two weeks, we would definitely be dipping into the Social Security surplus," said G. William Hoagland, the Republican staff director of the Senate Budget Committee.
Representative Richard Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, the House minority leader, said this week, "We're probably going to edge closer to $30 billion of actual Social Security money spent."
That sum may be no more than a rounding error in an $8 trillion economy, but it is still a lot of nickels and dimes -- every one potentially politically damaging to the Republicans.
"It's going to frustrate and infuriate their conservative base," said Stephen Moore, director of fiscal policy studies at the libertarian Cato Institute. "It's an indication of a breakdown in discipline in the Republican Party."
With so many spending bills still unapproved, tapping Social Security is not yet inevitable. But it will take extraordinary discipline, Mr. Hoagland said, for the Republicans to restrain their own ranks. Recent history -- notably last October, when faced with a similar situation, the Republicans allowed a $21 billion bonanza of spending -- suggests this will be difficult.
This situation has White House officials in a state of barely restrained glee. They clearly believe that the Republicans will do themselves political damage if they fail again to carry out the only major legislative task required of Congress by the Constitution: passing the spending bills. Some said they see it as a key to winning back control of the House, and perhaps even the Senate, next year -- assuming Americans pay much attention to how Congress spends their money.
The White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said the Republicans had created "a magnificent strategy to box themselves in."
The only way out of this trap for the Republican leadership is to hide billions of dollars in spending with budgetary devices. Their spending plans call for draining most of the projected general fund $38 billion surplus for the year after next, fiscal 2001, and spending it in 2000. Even some fellow conservatives are calling these tactics risky at best and ludicrous at worst.
The Republican leaders have also declared that $4.5 billion in funds for the 2000 census, $1.1 billion for a home-heating assistance program, and up to $8 billion in agricultural aid, mostly unconnected to this summer's droughts, are unforeseeable emergencies.
"They're coming up with gimmicks," said the former Republican chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Bob Livingston, who left Congress last year after 21 years in office. "For crying out loud, the census has been with us since the conception of the Constitution of the United States. This is not an emergency."
Declaring spending an "emergency" means it technically does not count against the spending limits, or caps, imposed by Congress in 1997. But those caps have already been broken, Mr. Lott concedes.
And the emergency money has to come from somewhere -- namely, the $14 billion budget surplus projected for fiscal 2000, which would have been the first in 30 years. Those three emergency items for the census, home heating and agriculture would all but wipe out that surplus.
There were going to be two kinds of surpluses in the fiscal 2000 spending scheme. One was that $14 billion surplus in the operating budget of the Government, the so-called "on-budget" surplus, which is like a checking account.
The Congressional Budget Office says that money is gone, with or without the emergency spending.
That leaves the other projected surplus for fiscal 2000 -- $147 billion in the Social Security trust fund, which is like a retirement account. Though Congress has tapped into that fund for decades, the Republicans vowed repeatedly that this year would be different, and now fear they will pay a political price if they cannot keep that promise.
"I'm afraid that's the one thing that seems to have sunk in with the American people," Mr. Hoagland said. "They don't want us to spend Social Security. That's the one issue that does seem to bear fruit. "
There is only one escape from this conundrum for the Republicans, but it is a tightrope walk.
The new fiscal year begins at 12:01 A.M. on Friday. As Congress left town for the weekend, 9 of the 13 spending bills were not ready to be sent to President Clinton for his signature -- or his veto, if Mr. Clinton keeps his promise to reject seven of the bills for their deep cuts in favorite White House programs.
Clearly, most of the spending bills will not be signed into law by Oct. 1. In the next five days, Congress must pass stopgap measures called continuing resolutions to run Government agencies lacking legal spending measures. In the meantime, the incomplete or unsigned measures will be rolled into one big package, called an omnibus spending bill.
Continuing resolutions lasting two or three weeks are a fragile architecture. They must be shored up with good-faith negotiations between the White House and the Republican Congress on reshaping the spending bills. But the Republican leaders have said many times that Mr. Clinton cannot be trusted, and some in the White House feel the same way about the Republicans.
If that process collapses, a repeat of the 1995 Government shutdown is possible. That would be a political disaster, Republicans fear. They believe the public blamed them for the 1995 shutdown, which closed everything from national parks to passport offices.
The more likely result is a huge omnibus spending bill that adds tens of billions of dollars in new spending -- which is precisely what happened last year, also to the embarrassment of Congress.
There appear to be only two ways to avoid a deep dip into the Social Security funds. One is passage of the tobacco tax proposed by the White House, which is unlikely at best.
The other is for the Republican leaders to order their members to stop demanding more spending, to pass as many bills as possible before Oct. 1 -- and to hope that they can outfox Mr. Clinton at the negotiating table.
"I can see a way out," Mr. Hoagland said. "The key is discipline. The key is leadership." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) FEDERAL PROGRAMS (51%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); GUN CONTROL (54%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM TRENT LOTT (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



595 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Japan Agrees To Rare Moves To Try to Halt Rise of Yen

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Japan today yielded to international pressure and agreed to take some extraordinary steps to reverse the recent and surprising climb of the Japanese yen against the dollar, which has rattled Wall Street in recent days and threatened Japan's recovery.
After an all-day meeting here, the finance ministers of the Group of Seven largest industrial countries issued a joint communique saying the Japanese authorities had, in effect, agreed to even deeper deficit spending and to begin printing yen to prompt inflation. Interest rates in Japan are already virtually zero, so the move represents a last-ditch effort to keep the yen's rise from making the country's exports more expensive around the world. 
 In return the United States and other major nations issued a vague threat that they might jointly intervene in the markets to weaken the yen and strengthen the dollar, a warning sign to currency traders who have been dumping the dollar.
If Japan actually begins trying to spur inflation -- in hopes of weakening the yen and encouraging its own consumers to stop saving and start buying -- it would be an enormous change of strategy. Hyperinflation in the years before World War II still weighs heavily on the country, and since 1945 Japan has been strongly conservative, keeping inflation to an absolute minimum.
The wording of the statement today was deliberately ambiguous, an effort to keep investors guessing and prevent them from betting against the dollar. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers tonight pointed to a paragraph that he said was "very carefully worded," which referred to Japan's agreement to "provide ample liquidity until deflationary concerns are dispelled." But he said he would not "interpret that remark," nor would he say whether the United States would finally join Japan in intervening in the markets.
Japan's Finance Minister, Kiichi Miyawaza, was asked tonight if the United States and other countries had agreed to intervene. He declined to offer a specific answer -- finance ministers never do -- but said, "You could feel and see for yourself that full recognition of the situation has been gained."
The meeting of the finance ministers and central bank chiefs did not carry the high drama of their session a year ago, when Russia's currency had collapsed and markets around the world appeared on the precipice of disaster. Asia has since begun a slow recovery, and even Japan has showed signs of pulling out of a recession that began more than seven years ago. In fact, the renewed interest of investors in putting their money into Japan is one reason the yen has risen by more than 15 percent against the dollar since mid-July.
But big currency moves can also cause big problems. It was the steady rise of the dollar from 1995 to 1997 that indirectly helped start the Asian financial crisis.
Until tonight the United States had indicated no willingness to join Japan in meddling with the currency markets by pouring in yen, and trying to reduce the currency's value against the dollar. Instead, the United States has been pushing Japan to lower its interest rates even further -- no easy trick here -- and to force it to keep spending heavily on new roads and other projects to stimulate the economy.
But the newly independent Bank of Japan declined to lower interest rates earlier in the week, outraging Japanese politicians. And Tokyo is now running up such huge deficits that it threatens to get itself into the same kind of fiscal problem the United States fell into in the 1980's.
The standoff on how to respond to the problem has become the first big test for Mr. Summers, a former Harvard economist who became Treasury Secretary in July. "This will be an interesting moment to see how much Larry learned about timing, about how to keep the markets guessing, and about how to keep the Japanese guessing," a senior Administration official said this week.
Planning -- or feigning -- currency interventions is a bit like threatening military strikes. Governments want to keep the markets guessing a bit about the timing and size of the attack, in hopes that just the fear of intervention will be enough to change the market's behavior.
The rise of the yen was not the only problem on the agenda. Russian officials were invited to sit in on the end of the Group of Seven meeting, chiefly to receive a warning that the wealthy nations will not be willing to extend further aid unless Russia agrees to regular, far more intrusive audits into how it uses loans from the International Monetary Fund.
Congressional hearings this week focused attention on the widespread corruption in Russia, though so far there is no evidence that the fund's money was diverted.
Tonight's communique said Russia's central bank must take steps to improve its "internal controls and initiate quarterly audits" before getting any future I.M.F. funds. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFLATION (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TRENDS (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



596 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
As League Meetings End, Stern Is Still the Chief Cheerleader

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia, Sept. 25

 BODY:
David Stern attended 24 meetings over the past two days and barely slept at night. Like George Lucas annually exhorting his Star Wars corporate empire, the National Basketball Association commissioner came to the league meetings here ready to market his product into the next century with renewed vigor.
In 48 dizzying hours, Stern saw the good, the bad and the unsightly of his league: 
 *He saw the unveiling of a 24-hour television network, NBA.com TV, which will debut Nov. 2 and represents the league's marriage to the Internet.
*He saw a billionaire buy one of the Canadian expansion teams that had helped give credence to Stern's global vision for the game; the new owner was silent about any plans to move the franchise to the United States.
*He saw a heated discussion between coaches, general managers and officials about how to make the game more esthetically pleasing.
Despite the declining scoring and the abysmal ratings for the finals between the Knicks and San Antonio Spurs last June after a lockout that wiped out most of the season, the commissioner bristled at the notion that interest in the N.B.A. was declining.
"I would say we took a huge hit last year with the lockout, struggling to find a formula that worked -- and it did," Stern said. "I would say that our players surprised even the most hardened skeptics as they came out and did what they had to do to interface with the fans. I would, at least, for some modest period ask you to give them the benefit of the doubt."
During a news conference with about 20 journalists from the United States and Canada, Stern spoke about everything from the rules changes for the coming season to possible expansion overseas. As much as fixing the game on the court, his priority seemed to be selling the game.
He also seemed to shoot down the notion that the purchase of the Vancouver Grizzlies by the St. Louis billionaire Bill Laurie on Thursday meant the team was on its way to St. Louis in less than two years.
"Nobody can move if the board of governors doesn't approve it," Stern said. "And I certainly think that the board of governors could and should be influenced by the performance of the team economically, in terms of fan support. I certainly urge the fans of Vancouver to support their team."
A proposed minimum age for players was shelved for at least the next two seasons. The idea was endorsed by Stern, who in June said 20 years old might be a feasible age at which to join the N.B.A. But resistance from the players association and the lack of progress in talks with the National Collegiate Athletic Association put off immediate plans.
Stern also touched on his plans for international expansion. "In the next couple of years, we're going to be getting some interesting proposals and opportunities for the N.B.A. to affiliate in some way with foreign operations and leagues," Stern said, "Those are opportunities we're going to have to evaluate perhaps more seriously than we would have had in the past, because there's so many of them that appear poised to come to us, in Europe and Latin America and in Asia.
"There seems to be increasing sentiment from a variety of our real and potential business partners and broadcast partners that there is a strong contribution to the growth of basketball by being more involved more internationally than we are."
When he arrived here Thursday afternoon, a press conference had already been planned by the host franchise to announce the ownership change to Laurie. Four years after the Grizzlies had given the N.B.A. a presence in a western Canadian province, the team was said to be on its way to Missouri.
More than worrying about the relocation of a franchise for the first time in 15 years, Stern wanted the 1,400 in attendance -- almost every league employee other than the players -- to understand that they could not sit back and rest on their post-lockout laurels just yet.
The league's fan-friendly approach after the lockout was stressed often during the meetings. All 29 teams will make available $10 single-game tickets, and scrimmages will be held for the public.
During the general session, Stern had a former chief marketing officer from the Coca-Cola Company address the gathering. The message was that the N.B.A. would be "backsliding as an operation" if they continued to stay the course. "What we're saying to everybody is, if you're doing everything the same way you've been doing it for the last 10 years, you're probably not doing it right," Stern said.
Russ Granik, the deputy commissioner, added: "We recognize you've got to make changes, and that's why we're looking at our rules, that's why a lot of time was spent the last two days talking with our various groups about how to improve interaction between players and fans and coaches and fans." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (95%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (75%); SPORTS TAMPERING (72%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; STERN, DAVID GEORGE LUCAS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



597 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Lost Its Chance in Russia

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Robert E. Rubin's Sept. 21 Op-Ed article is the establishment approach to the stealing, diversion and double-dealing by Russian officials of both Western aid and Russia's national assets. The platitudes are tiresome: that "the United States has a critical interest in Russia's stability," that there somehow exists a "democratic, market-oriented Russia," and that the United States must do everything in its power "to increase the probability of a constructive result." Yes, this is all well and good. 
 Now ask the hard questions: What percentage of aid sent to Russia should we be prepared to recognize has been and will continue to be stolen or diverted? Don't the Russian people have good reason not to trust their officials?
Are the vast majority of the Russian people better off than they were 10 years ago, and if not, why we pumping money into Russia's economy if the people don't see the benefit?
 
MICHAEL T. CONCANNON
Seattle, Sept. 22, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: CONCANNON, MICHAEL T; RUBIN, ROBERT E ROBERT E RUBIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



598 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Lost Its Chance in Russia

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Robert E. Rubin gives us an interesting phrase, "market democracy," in his Sept. 21 Op-Ed article, "Don't Give Up on Russia." Yet with low voter turnout in the United States and the gap between rich and poor growing steadily wider, the moral claims for our system need fresh proof. 
 Perhaps there is in the Russian mentality an ancient wisdom that suspects a fraudulent propensity in all human promises. Helping them reform their system requires that we are able to be persuasive about our own. This is a question of world historical importance. Can our democratic processes successfully mingle real political participation with the enormous power of market ownership? Are Americans able to modify the power of this ownership when it seeks to buy and sell influence on a scale that either neutralizes citizen action or corrupts it?
 
(Rev.) CHARLES W. RAWLINGS
South Orange, N.J., Sept. 21, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZEN ACTION FUND (56%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZEN ACTION FUND (56%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RAWLINGS, CHARLES W (REV) ROBERT E RUBIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



599 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Lost Its Chance in Russia

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Those of us who have experienced the mind-boggling scope of corruption and crime in high Government and civic circles in parts of the former Soviet Union find it difficult to make others aware of the problem. Our best efforts are often met with incredulity and the assertion that this state of affairs is "normal" in business. 
 It is therefore distressing to read about the testimony of Thomas A. Renyi of the Bank of New York at hearings in Washington about his bank's dealings in Russia (news article, Sept. 23). That a man of his stature could be as ignorant of his business partners as his testimony indicated makes one wonder if the "normal" argument may be correct.
 
JOHN KARKLINS
Chicago, Sept. 23, 1999
 
The writer was head of construction for the Bank of Latvia in Riga, 1996-97. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LATVIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LATVIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KARKLINS, JOHN; RUBIN, ROBERT E THOMAS A RENYI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



600 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 1; Television 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY;
All the President's Men . . . and Women

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

 BODY:
Four years ago Aaron Sorkin, the author of stage and film versions of "A Few Good Men," was researching and writing the screenplay for "The American President," about a widowed President who is attracted to a lobbyist. "There were all these stories I wanted to tell in 'The American President' about the senior staffers at the White House but didn't because it was about the romance of these two people," said Mr. Sorkin. 
The following year his agent arranged a lunch date for Mr. Sorkin with John Wells, creator of "E.R." and other shows.
"I knew that he was a big deal, and the moment I saw down at lunch with John, I realized he's a busy and important guy, and he was expecting me to pitch something, to have an idea or two," recalled Mr. Sorkin. "So it suddenly occurred to me: what about senior staffers at the White House? I had never really said it out loud. And's that how 'West Wing' happened."
One of the most anticipated and high-profile shows of the new season, "West Wing," which had its premiere on Wednesday on NBC in a coveted time slot (9 to 10 P.M. on Wednesday), is designed as a behind-the-scenes glimpse into the lives of a group of mostly young White House aides. The cast includes Rob Lowe, Moira Kelly, Allison Janney and Martin Sheen, who plays President Josiah Bartlett, a middle-of-the-road New Hampshire Democrat.
As the President Mr. Sheen was initially set to be a peripheral figure, making one episode a month, with all the attention focused on the staffers. But Mr. Sorkin and Mr. Wells, who is one of the executive producers, revised their plans once filming began and enlisted Mr. Sheen as a full-timer. "It was like they had this three-ring circus, but the third ring was empty," said Mr. Sheen, who acknowledged that he has patterned his portrayal after John F. Kennedy, a boyhood hero.
The fictional President may be too good to be true. "He has the intelligence of Clinton, the heart and passion of Jimmy Carter and the energy and foresight of John Kennedy," said Mr. Sheen. "He won the Nobel Prize for economics. He's a Catholic, like me, and has been married 35 years. I've been married 38 years."
Mr. Wells said that what drove him and Mr. Sorkin to create "West Wing" was a yearning to depict a group of mostly smart people in their 20's and 30's who opted to work for the Government at a salary that was relatively low, compared with what they could earn on Wall Street.
Shows involving politics often meet resistance from network executives, and "West Wide" was no different.
"There's a real fear that political shows won't work because they're seen as too dry," said Mr. Wells. "And people tend to think these shows are like eating vegetables: They're good for you."
Beyond this, NBC executives were skittish because the Monica Lewinsky scandal was unfolding and executives felt that viewers were turned off by Washington and politics. So the show was delayed for a year, and Mr. Sorkin turned to creating "Sports Night," the ABC show about an ESPN-style network.
Earlier this year a new regime at NBC, led by Scott Sassa, president of NBC-West Coast, and Garth Ancier, president of NBC Entertainment, promptly gave a green light to the show and put it on the schedule. Mr. Ancier said the nation's cynicism about politics might actually help "West Wing," whose main characters, from the President to his senior staff, are mostly flawed but thoroughly decent.
"One would think, 'Why would I watch a show set in the political arena at a time like the present when there's a great deal of skepticism about public office?' " said Mr. Ancier. "Well, it may well be that the show is a wish fulfillment for the American public. People in the show have honorable goals and are trying to do their best. And that's what we want to believe our representatives are doing."
What distinguishes the show, its creators said, was an effort to replicate the inner workings of the White House as accurately as possible, even though it is being shot on a Warner Brothers sound stage in Burbank, Calif. A $3 million White House set seems almost a mirror image of the West Wing.
Former White House aides like Pat Cadell, a polling expert for Jimmy Carter, and the former Clinton press secretary Dee Dee Myers have been hired as consultants. And virtually everyone connected to the show seems to have watched the documentary "The War Room," about the Clinton Presidential campaign in 1992 and to have read George Stephanopoulos's book about the Clinton White House, "All Too Human."
Ms. Janney, who plays the press secretary, said, "I'm having dinner with Dee Dee tonight, and I want to know everything: What were her aspirations? What what were her issues as a woman? Did she have a personal life? How did she think on her feet? How was she treated?"
Mr. Sorkin, 38, a New York native, said with a laugh that he had gone out of his way to assuage the concerns of NBC that "West Wing" would turn into an issues show in which the conservatives wear black hats and the liberals are oh-so-good. The pilot episode does take a slap at the Religious Right. But in the second show the President is so outraged by an attack on a United States Air Force jet over Syria with his personal doctor aboard that the strong White House response worries even the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Another episode involves hypocritical rich liberals.
"I'm looking forward to being unpredictable on the show," said Mr. Sorkin.
Aside from Mr. Sheen, the best-known actor on the series is the former Brat Pack member Rob Lowe, who plays the White House deputy communications director and speechwriter who unwittingly gets entangled with a prostitute in the first episode. Mr. Lowe, who auditioned for the part, said it was the role of his career.
"With Aaron's dialogue you're walking on the razor's edge of comedy and drama," he said. "When I read the script, it was as good as any movie I've read, and certainly better than any television show I've ever read."
The cast also includes a number of theater-trained actors who say they expect "West Wing" to advance their careers. Ms. Janney, for example, whose film work ("Primary Colors") has started to flourish, said she hoped that "West Wing," if successful, would lead to more prominent roles as opposed to the often small ones she is usually offered.
"If 'West Wing' is a hit, knock on wood, I'll buy a house in L.A.," she said with a laugh. "And if it's really a hit, I'll finally be able to buy an apartment in New York."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Sheen as President Josiah Bartlet. Moira Kelly, Allison Janney, Bradley Whitford and John Spencer as White House senior staff members. Rob Lowe as Toby Ziegler and Ms. Janney as C.J. Cregg. (pgs. 4 & 5); Allison Janney as the White Hous Press Secretary in "The West Wing." (Photographs by Kevin Foley/NBC)(pg. 57)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WEST WING, THE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (90%); WEST WING (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (90%); WEST WING (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, AARON; WELLS, JOHN; SHEEN, MARTIN; WEINRAUB, BERNARD JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999

 
